CITY CODE
of
DARIEN, ILLINOIS
1978
Code current through:
Ord. O-34-25, passed 7-21-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Darien, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance O-34-25, passed July 21, 2025. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
      American Legal Publishing
      Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ORDINANCE NO. O-38-25      
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 10 “BICYCLES, LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLES AND
PERSONAL MOBILITY DEVICES” TO TITLE 9 OF THE “TRAFFIC REGULATIONS” OF THE CITY
OF DARIEN CITY CODE
      
 
   ADOPTED BY THE
 
   MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
 
   OF THE
 
   CITY OF DARIEN
 
THIS 4 th DAY OF AUGUST, 2025
 
   
 
Published in pamphlet form by authority of the Mayor and City Council of the
City of Darien, DuPage County, Illinois, this 5 th day of August, 2025     
 
 
   
 
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 10 “BICYCLES, LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLES AND
PERSONAL MOBILITY DEVICES” TO TITLE 9 OF THE “TRAFFIC REGULATIONS” OF THE CITY
OF DARIEN CITY CODE
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF DARIEN, DU PAGE COUNTY,
ILLINOIS, IN THE EXERCISE OF ITS HOME RULE POWERS, as follows:
 
CHAPTER 10
BICYCLES, LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLES AND
PERSONAL MOBILITY DEVICES
 
SECTION
9-10-1   Definition
9-10-2   Obedience to Traffic-Control Devices
9-10-3   Operation of Bicycles, Low-Speed Electric Bicycles, And Personal
Mobility Devices
9-10-4   Location Restrictions
9-10-5   Equipment
9-10-6   Duty of Parent or Guardian
9-10-7   Application of Chapter
9-10-8   Penalty
 
9-10-1   DEFINITION
BICYCLE
Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride, having
two (2) tandem wheels except scooters and similar devices.
 
LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE
A bicycle equipped with fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less
than 750 watts that meets the requirements of one of the following classes:
Class 1 low-speed electric bicycle means a low-speed electric bicycle equipped
with a motor that provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and that
ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed of 20 miles per
hour.
Class 2 low-speed electric bicycle" means a low-speed electric bicycle equipped
with a motor that may be used exclusively to propel the bicycle and that is not
capable of providing assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed of 20 miles
per hour.
Class 3 low-speed electric bicycle means a low-speed electric bicycle equipped
with a motor that provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and that
ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed of 28 miles per
hour.
A "low-speed electric bicycle" is not a moped or a motor driven cycle. Illinois
Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/1-140.10).
 
PERSONAL (micromobility) MOBILITY DEVICE
An electric-powered or electric-assisted device designed to transport only one
person with an electric propulsion system of less than 750 watts and that
limits the maximum speed of the device to twenty (20) miles per hour or less,
such as a motorized or motor-assisted scooter, motorized or motor-assisted
skateboard, or any other similar devices. Illinois Vehicle Code 625 ILCS 5/1-
140.11 describes a low-speed electric scooter as a device weighing less than
100 pounds, with 2 or 3 wheels, handlebars and a floorboard that can be stood
upon while riding, that is solely powered by an electric motor and human power
and whose maximum speed, with or without human propulsion, is no more than 10
miles per hour. "Low-speed electric scooter" does not include a moped or motor-
driven cycle.
 
 
9-10-2   OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES:
Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official traffic
signals, signs and other control devices applicable to vehicles unless
otherwise directed by a police officer.
 
Wherever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or "U"
turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the direction of
any such sign, except when such person dismounts from the bicycle to make any
such turn, in which event such person shall then obey the regulations
applicable to pedestrians.
 
9-10-3   OPERATION OF BICYCLES, LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLES, AND PERSONAL
MOBILITY DEVICES:
(A)   Riding on Bicycles, low-speed electric bicycles, and personal mobility
devices
1.   A person operating a bicycle or low-speed electric bicycle shall not ride
other than upon or astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
2.   A person operating a bicycle or low-speed electric bicycle shall not carry
any other person or persons upon such bicycle or low-speed electric bicycle
other than upon a firmly attached and regular seat designed and intended for
such purpose.
3.   No bicycle, low-speed electric bicycle, or personal mobility device shall
be used to carry more than one (1) person unless specifically designed for more
than one (1) person.
(B)   Speed
No person shall operate a bicycle, low-speed electric bicycle, or personal
mobility device at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the
conditions then existing, or in any case in excess of 20 MPH.
 
 
(C)   Riding on Right
Every person operating a bicycle or low-speed electric bicycle upon a public
street or roadway shall ride as near to the right side thereof as practicable,
exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the
same direction.
(D)   Emerging from Alley or Driveway
The operator of a bicycle, low-speed electric bicycle, or personal mobility
device emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall, upon approaching a
sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, yield the right of way
to all pedestrians approaching on said sidewalk area and upon entering the
public street or roadway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles
approaching on said street or roadway.
(E)   Duty to Yield
Whenever a person is riding a bicycle or personal mobility device upon a
sidewalk, such person shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian, and shall
give an appropriate signal clearly audible to such pedestrian.
(F)   Clinging to Vehicles
No person riding upon any bicycle, low-speed electric bicycle, or personal
mobility device shall attach said bicycle, low-speed electric bicycle, or
personal mobility device, or himself, by clinging or otherwise, to any other
vehicle.
(G)   Riding in a Group
Persons operating bicycles, low-speed electric bicycles, or personal mobility
devices shall ride in single file.
(H)   Carrying Articles
The use of handheld cell phones, or similar devices, while operating a low
speed electric bike and/or personal mobility device is prohibited. The operator
of a low speed electric bike and/or personal mobility device with handlebars
shall keep both hands on the handlebars at all times.
(I)   Parking
No person shall park a bicycle, low-speed electric bicycle, or personal
mobility device upon a public street or roadway, nor upon a sidewalk except as
follows:
1.   On a sidewalk in a rack designed and installed for that purpose.
2.   On a sidewalk adjacent to a building with the bicycle, low-speed electric
bicycle, or personal mobility device resting on its own standard, provided no
part of the bicycle, low-speed electric bicycle, or personal mobility device
shall be more than two and one-half feet (2 1/2') from the adjacent building.
(J)   Other Vehicles Prohibited
Electric bicycles other than low speed electric bicycles, or devices that do
not meet the definition of personal mobility devices as defined in Section 9-
10-1 due to being equipped with a motor of 750 watts or more, or capable of a
maximum speed in excess of twenty (20) miles per hour, shall not be permitted
to be operated on any public right-of-way or on any other public property
within the City to include sidewalks and trails.
(K)   Age Restrictions
1.   A person may not operate a Class 3 low-speed electric bicycle unless he or
she is 16 years of age or older.
2.   A person may not operate a low speed scooter unless he or she is 18 years
of age or older.
 
9-10-4:   LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
(A)   Bicycles
Bicycles, other than low-speed electric bicycles, may be operated on any
street, sidewalk, or trail in the City.
(B)   Low-Speed Electric Bicycles
Low-speed electric bicycles shall be operated only on the street. No person
shall operate a low-speed electric bicycle on any sidewalk, or trail within the
City.
(C)   Personal Mobility Devices
Personal Mobility Devices may be operated on any sidewalk or trail in the City.
No person shall operate a personal mobility device on any public street,
roadway, or alley within the City, except where necessary to cross a street at
a designated crosswalk.
 
9-10-5:   EQUIPMENT:
(A)   Lamps and Reflectors
Every bicycle, low-speed electric bicycle and personal mobility device when in
use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp on the front which shall emit a
white light visible from a distance of at least five hundred feet (500') to the
front and with a red reflector on the rear which shall be visible from all
distances from fifty feet (50') to three hundred feet (300') to the rear when
directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp
emitting a red light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the
rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
(B)   Brakes
Every bicycle, low-speed electric bicycle and personal mobility device shall be
equipped with a brake which will enable the operator to make the braked wheel
skid on a dry, level, clean pavement.
(C)   Alterations to Low-Speed Electric Bicycle or Personal Mobility Device
No person shall knowingly modify a low-speed electric bicycle or personal
mobility device to change the manufacturer’s speed capability. No person shall
operate an altered low-speed electric bicycle or personal mobility device that
allows the low-speed electric bicycle or personal mobility device to travel
faster than the manufacturer’s speed capability.
 
9-10-6:   DUTY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN:
It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian to permit any minor child of
which they are a parent or guardian to violate any provisions of this chapter.
 
9-10-7:   APPLICATION OF CHAPTER:
The provisions of this Chapter shall apply whenever a bicycle, low-speed
electric bicycle, or personal mobility device is operated upon any public
street, roadway, alley, sidewalk or other public way within the City.
 
 
9-10-8:   PENALTY:
Every person convicted or a violation of any provision of this Chapter shall be
punished by a fine of not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.
   PASSED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF DARIEN, DU PAGE COUNTY, ILLINOIS,
this 4 th  day of August, 2025.
AYES:      7 – Belczak, Gustafson, Kenny, Leganski, Schauer, Stompanato,
Sullivan   
NAYS:      0 – NONE   
ABSENT:      0 – NONE   
   APPROVED BY THE MAYOR OF THE CITY OF DARIEN, DU PAGE COUNTY, ILLINOIS, this
4 th day of August, 2025.
 
 
   
   JOSEPH MARCHESE, MAYOR
ATTEST:
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7457706f7aaf2d7e388d2de0fb2caab75b34723e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2316_2160x2491.jpg]
 
   
   JOANNE E. RAGONA, CITY CLERK   
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
 
   
   CITY ATTORNEY
 
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 0-09-00
AN ORDINANCE READOPTING THE DARIEN CITY CODE IN ITS ENTIRETY UNDER THE CITY OF
DARIEN'S HOME RULE AUTHORITY
   WHEREAS, a special census of the City of Darien was conducted by the United
States Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to notice filed with the City Clerk of the City of Darien,
the results of the special census showed that as of May 4, 1998, the population
of the City of Darien is in excess of 25,000; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to Article VII, Section 6(a) of the Illinois State
Constitution of 1970, any municipality which has a population of more than
25,000 is a home rule unit of government; and
   WHEREAS, the corporate authorities of the City of Darien have previously
approved Resolution R-10-00, "A Resolution Acknowledging the Results of a
Special Census Establishing Home Rule Status for the City of Darien"; and
   WHEREAS, as a home rule unit of local government, the City may exercise any
power and perform any function pertaining to its government except as limited
by Article VII, Section 6; and
   WHEREAS, the corporate authorities of the City of Darien have determined
that it is in the best interests of the public health, safety and welfare of
the City of Darien to readopt the Darien City Code in its entirety under the
City's authority as a home rule unit of government.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF DARIEN, DU
PAGE COUNTY, ILLINOIS, IN THE EXERCISE OF ITS HOME RULE POWERS, as follows:
   SECTION 1: That the Darien City Code, and as amended from time to time, is
hereby readopted in its entirety under and pursuant to the City of Darien's
home rule powers as established by Article VII, Section 6(a) of the Illinois
Constitution of 1970.
   SECTION 2: This ordinance and each of its terms shall be the effective
legislative act of a home rule municipality without regard to whether such
ordinance should (a) contain terms contrary to the provisions of current or
subsequent non-preemptive state law, or (b) legislate in a manner or regarding
a matter not delegated to municipalities by state law. It is the intent of the
corporate authorities of the City of Darien that to the extent that the terms
of this ordinance should be inconsistent with any non-preemptive state law,
that this ordinance shall supersede state law in that regard within its
jurisdiction.
   SECTION 3: This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage and approval, and shall subsequently be published in pamphlet form
as provided by law.
   PASSED AND APPROVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF DARIEN, DU PAGE
COUNTY, ILLINOIS, this 5th day of June, 2000.
AYES:    7 - Biehl, Cotten, Durkin, Hagen, Marchese,   
       Quiaoit, Weaver   
NAYS:    0 - None   
ABSENT:    0 - None   
   APPROVED BY THE MAYOR OF THE CITY OF DARIEN, DU PAGE COUNTY, ILLINOIS, this
5th day of June, 2000.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
Official City Code   1
Saving Clause   2
Definitions   3
General Penalty   4
City Council   5
City Administrator   6
City Officers, Compensation And Expenses   7
City Personnel   8
City Finances   9
City Election   10
Conflict Of Interest And Ethics   11
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Interpretations
1-1-5: Code Alteration
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the Council, this City Code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the Official City Code of the City of Darien. This City
Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the DARIEN CITY CODE, and it is
hereby published by authority of the Council and shall be kept up to date as
provided in Section
1-1-3 of this Chapter under the direction of the City Attorney, acting for the
said City Council. Any reference to the number of any section contained herein
shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this City Code by title in any legal documents. (1978 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The City Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Title. (1978 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the City Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this City Code. (1978
Code)
1-1-4: INTERPRETATIONS:
In the determination of the provisions of each section of this Code the
following rules shall be observed:
   (A)   Intent To Defraud: Whenever an intent to defraud is required in order
to constitute an offense, it shall be sufficient if an intent appears to
defraud any person.
   (B)   Liability Of Employers And Agents: When the provisions of any section
of this City Code prohibit the commission of an act, not only the person
actually doing the prohibited act or omitting the directed act, but also the
employer and all other persons concerned with or in aiding or abetting the said
person shall be guilty of the offense described and liable to the penalty set
forth. (1978 Code)
1-1-5: CODE ALTERATION:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this City Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
City Council. The Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the Clerk. Any
person having in his custody an official copy of the City Code shall make every
effort to maintain said Code in an up to date and efficient manner. He shall
see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the City Clerk.
Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and other interested
persons, shall be and remain the property of the City and shall be returned to
the office of the Clerk when directed so to do by order of the City Council.
(1978 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the City passed prior to the adoption of this City
Code are hereby repealed to the extent that they are inconsistent with the
sections of this City Code. (1978 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this City Code or by virtue of the
preceding Section, excepting as this City Code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case this City Code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1978 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable, if
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied
to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the City herein
repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this Code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
City under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this City Code. (1978 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this City Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The City Council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1978 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this City Code importing the plural number
is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any
single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used.
When any subject matter, party or person is referred to in this City Code by
words importing the singular number only, or the masculine gender, several
matters, parties or persons and females as well as males and bodies corporate
shall be deemed to be included; provided, that these rules of construction
shall not be applied to any section of this City Code which contains any
express provision excluding such construction or where the subject matter or
context may be repugnant thereto.
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the City has been changed
in the content of this City Code to "title", "chapter", "section", and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the City's ordinances is not meant to amend the
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1978 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
CITY: The City of Darien, County of DuPage, State of Illinois.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: Any vehicle operated for the transportation of persons or
property in the furtherance of any commercial or industrial enterprise, for-
hire or not-for- hire, but not including a commuter van, a vehicle used in a
ridesharing arrangement when being used for that purpose, or a recreational
vehicle not being used commercially.
   Signs or advertising, ladders or other equipment, type of vehicle
registration, etc., may be included as evidence in establishing whether the
vehicle is used "in the furtherance of any commercial or industrial
enterprise".
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The corporate authorities shall be the City Council
members of the City.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Darien".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the City for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year for the City shall commence on May 1 and terminate
on April 30 of the following year.
KNOWINGLY: Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which brings the act
or omission within the provisions of this Code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment in
other than a penitentiary for less than one year may be imposed.
NEGLIGENT: "Negligent", as well as "neglect", "negligence" and "negligently"
imports a want of such attention to the nature of probable consequences of the
act or omission as a prudent man ordinarily bestows in acting in his own
concern.
NUISANCE: See Section
7-3-1 of this Code.
OCCUPANT: Applied to a building or land shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Darien".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: Applied to a building or land shall include any part owner, joint owner,
tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of such
building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small quantities
direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STREET: Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, squares,
places and sidewalks or private ways, squares, places or sidewalks used by the
general public.
TENANT: Applied to a building or land shall include any person who occupies the
whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WILFULLY: When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to injure
another, or to acquire an advantage.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing any other mode of representing words
and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by law to
any official or public writing or bond required by law, it shall be in the
proper handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his
proper mark. (Ord. 0-11-70, 5-18-1970; amd. 1978 Code; Ord. 0-18-99, 8-16-1999)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1978 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: License
1-4-3: Application
1-4-4: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Whenever, in any ordinance of the City, passed prior to or subsequent to the
date hereto, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an
offense, or whenever, in any ordinance the doing of any act is required or the
failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful or an offense, where no
specific penalty is provided therefor, violation of any such provision of such
ordinance shall be punishable by a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00). A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
any violation of the provisions of any ordinance of the City shall continue. At
the time that any person is found to have violated any provision of an
ordinance of the City by an appropriate branch of the Circuit Court of DuPage
County, the person representing the City as legal counsel in such matter or the
officer or employee of the City who has brought the charge or testified in the
matter shall recommend to the Judge a suggested amount for the imposition of
the fine 1 . (Ord. 0-40-95, 12-4-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.
1-4-2: LICENSE:
When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of this City Code, any
license previously issued to him by the City may be revoked by a court of
competent jurisdiction or by the City. (1978 Code)
1-4-3: APPLICATION:
The penalty provided in this Chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this City Code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate
section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this City Code,
where any duty is prescribed or violation imposed, or where any action which is
of a continuing nature if forbidden or declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this City Code, the prosecuting officer may
elect under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had
against the same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of
a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this City Code and there shall be no fine
or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this
Chapter shall apply and a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each
day during or on which a breach or violation occurs or continues. (1978 Code)
1-4-4: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this City Code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intent of the Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (1978 Code)
CHAPTER 5
CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Organization
1-5-2: Regular And Special Meetings Of The Council
1-5-3: Presiding Officer
1-5-4: Quorum
1-5-5: Adjournment
1-5-6: Rules Of Procedure
1-5-7: Council Committees
1-5-1: ORGANIZATION:
The City Council shall consist of the Mayor and seven (7) Aldermen. There shall
be one Alderman elected from each of the seven (7) Wards within the City. (Ord.
0-29-93, 7-6-1993)
1-5-2: REGULAR AND SPECIAL MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL:
   (A)   Regular Meetings:
      1.   Day Established: The first and third Monday of each month are hereby
declared and established as the official meeting dates for the City Council.
      2.   Time: All regular meetings of the City Council shall be called to
order at seven thirty o'clock (7:30) P.M., or at such time thereafter as a
quorum shall be present.
      3.   Place: The regular meetings of the City Council shall be held at the
Darien City Hall, 1702 Plainfield Road, Darien, DuPage County, Illinois, 60559,
or at such other place as may be designated by the City Council.
   (B)   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or by
any three (3) Aldermen by giving at least twenty four (24) hours' notice to
each of the members of the City Council of the date, time and place of such
meeting and the purpose for which it is called and giving such other notice as
is required by statute. (Ord. 0-09-77, 3-21-1977)
1-5-3: PRESIDING OFFICER:
The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council. In the absence of
the Mayor at any meeting of the City Council, the members of the City Council
shall elect an Alderman as Mayor Pro Tem or temporary Chairman in accordance
with law. (Ord. 0-09-77, 3-21-1977)
1-5-4: QUORUM:
A majority of the corporate authorities entitled to vote at a meeting of the
City Council shall constitute a quorum to do business, excepting, however, that
a lesser number may adjourn from time to time. (Ord. 0-09-77, 3-21-1977)
1-5-5: ADJOURNMENT:
Any meeting, either regular or special, of the City Council may be adjourned
from time to time to a specific date and time by a vote of the majority of
those present and no further notice of such adjourned meeting shall be
required. (Ord. 0-09-77, 3-21-1977)
1-5-6: RULES OF PROCEDURE:
The following rules for the Council meetings are hereby adopted:
   (A)   Order Of Business, Regular Meetings: The order of business at all
regular meetings shall be as follows:
      1.   The roll call.
      2.   Approval of minutes of preceding regular and special meetings.
      3.   Receiving, reading and referring petitions and communications to the
Council.
      4.   Reports of committees, officers, employees and others.
      5.   Old business.
      6.   New business.
   (B)   Order Of Business, Special Meetings: The order of business at special
meetings shall include:
      1.   Roll call.
      2.   Consideration of the stated business of the meeting.
   (C)   Decisions: The city council shall be governed by "Robert's Rules Of
Order".
   (D)   Open Meetings: All meetings of the city council shall be open to the
public with the exception of executive sessions called to consider matters
which may be discussed in such sessions. (Ord. 0-09-77, 3-21-1977)
   (E)   Attendance By Means Other Than Physical Presence: If a quorum is
physically present at a regular or special city council meeting, an absent
alderman may participate in that meeting by way of audio or video conferencing.
Participation is subject to the following limitations:
      1.   The council member's absence must be because of personal illness or
disability; employment purposes; city business; or a family or other emergency.
      2.   If a member of the council wishes to attend the meeting by means of
a video or audio conference, the member must notify the city clerk of his or
her nonattendance as soon as is reasonably possible so that the clerk may make
appropriate arrangements.
      3.   Meeting participation by a means other than physical presence shall
be permitted only for regular and special meetings of the city council. No such
participation shall be allowed for either council committees or advisory
bodies. (Ord. 0-51-06, 12-4-2006)
1-5-7: COUNCIL COMMITTEES:
   (A)   General Committee Regulations And Procedures:
      1.   All committee meetings, both regular and special shall be open to
the public and to the press, except executive sessions as authorized by
subsection
1-5-6(D) of this chapter.
      2.   Any citizen may address a committee on invitation of the chairman of
the committee.
      3.   All committees of the council shall consist of three (3) members.
      4.   The mayor shall be an ex officio nonvoting member of all standing
council committees.
      5.   The duties of the various committees of the city council shall be
solely advisory and investigative as pertains to each particular committee.
      6.   No committee or its individual members shall assume executive or
administrative functions.
      7.   Each chairman of a council committee shall schedule a minimum of one
meeting per month.
   (B)   Standing Committees:
      1.   There shall be three (3) standing committees of the city council:
            Administrative/finance committee
            Municipal services committee
            Police committee
      2.   Within two (2) weeks following each biennial election or a special
election, the mayor shall inform the aldermen and aldermen elect of proposed
appointments and chairman designations to standing council committees. Within
the first full month following the regular or special election, the mayor shall
recommend appointments to standing council committees with advice and consent
of the council.
      3.   Standing committees to which references are made by the mayor or
council shall make a report to the council not later than the third meeting of
the council after such reference, unless further time shall be required and is
granted by the council. In the event a committee is unable to make its report
at the third meeting, the chairman of such said committee shall advise the
members of the council of such fact and give to it a progress report.
      4.   The quorum for a standing council committee shall be two (2)
members. The committee chairman of each committee shall submit a written report
of the committee action to the council no later than five (5) days prior to the
next council meeting if a majority or minority of the committee recommend
council action be taken, or no later than the third council meeting following
the scheduled committee meeting if such report is merely informational.
   (C)   Special Committees:
      1.   Special committees of the aldermen may be appointed at any time by
the mayor with the advice and consent of the council to consider any special
problem not already assigned to a standing committee.
      2.   All special committees and appointments thereto shall expire one
year from date of appointment, unless specifically extended by action of the
mayor with the advice and consent of the council. (Ord. 0-40-09, 12-7-2009,
eff. 1-1-2010)
CHAPTER 6
CITY ADMINISTRATOR
SECTION:
1-6-1: Position Created; Appointment
1-6-2: Bond
1-6-3: Compensation
1-6-4: Removal
1-6-5: Powers And Duties
1-6-6: Authorized Expenditures
1-6-1: POSITION CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the position of City Administrator, an administrative
management employee in the City.
The City Administrator shall be appointed by a majority vote of the entire City
Council for an indefinite term at the pleasure of said City Council. The City
Administrator shall be chosen on the basis of administrative qualifications
with special reference to actual experience in and knowledge of accepted
practice with respect to duties of the position hereinafter set forth without
regard to political beliefs. No elected official of the City shall receive such
appointment during the term for which he shall have been elected nor within one
year after the expiration of such term. (Ord. 0-18-74-A, 4-7-1975)
1-6-2: BOND:
The City Administrator shall furnish a bond in such amount as may be required
and with such surety as may be approved by the City Council, said bond shall be
conditioned on the faithful performance of duties and shall be conditioned to
indemnify the City for any loss by reason of any neglect of duty or any act of
the Administrator. The premium on the bond shall be paid by the City. (Ord. 0-
18-74, 10-7-1974)
1-6-3: COMPENSATION:
The City Administrator shall receive such compensation as the City Council
shall fix by ordinance or resolution. (Ord. 0-18-74, 10-7-1974)
1-6-4: REMOVAL:
The City Council may remove the City Administrator at any time by a majority
vote of the entire Council. (Ord. 0-18-74, 10-7-1974)
1-6-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The City Administrator shall be the chief administrative employee of the City.
The City Administrator shall be responsible to the Mayor and the City Council
for the proper administration of the affairs of the City and to that end shall
have power and shall be required to: (Ord. 0-18-74-A, 4-7-1975)
   (A)   See to it that all the laws and ordinances of the City are enforced.
   (B)   Attend all City Council meetings, unless excused. The City
Administrator shall have the right to take part in the discussion of all
matters coming before the Council but shall have no right to vote. The City
Administrator shall be entitled to notice of all special and regular meetings
of the City Council.
   (C)   Recommend to the City Council adoption of such measures as the
Administrator may deem necessary to protect the health, safety or welfare of
the community, or for the improvement of the services rendered by the City.
(Ord. 0-18-74, 10-7-1974)
   (D)   Appoint and remove all employees of the City. This appointment and
removal authority of the City Administrator shall not apply to the following:
      1.   Chief of Police.
      2.   Full-time members of the Police Department. (Ord. 0-06-85, 5-6-1985)
      3.   Director of Community Development. (Ord. 0-06-85, 5-6-1985; amd.
Ord. 0-25-95, 7-17-1995)
      4.   Director of Public Works (Streets and Water).
      5.   Independent contractors with the City. (Ord. 0-06-85, 5-6-1985)
   (E)   Provide on behalf of the mayor and city council management,
supervision and coordination of all departments of the city now in existence,
or that may hereafter be established. (Ord. 0-18-74, 10-7-1974)
   (F)   Make recommendations to the mayor and city council, through the mayor
and city council, on the following subjects:
      1.   Creation or abolition of positions of employment with the city.
      2.   Wages and benefits for all city employees.
      3.   Personnel regulations for city employees. (Ord. 0-13-78, 3-6-1978)
   (G)   Recommend to the mayor and the city council rules and regulations for
the conduct and structure of the various departments of the city.
   (H)   Investigate all complaints in relation to matters concerning the
administration of the government of the city and the services maintained and
provided by the public utilities of the city. (Ord. 0-18-74, 10-7-1974)
   (I)   (Rep. by Ord. 0-21-96, 8-5-1996)
   (J)   Assist the city treasurer and the administrative committee in the
preparation of the annual appropriation ordinance and a working budget. The
city administrator shall endeavor to recommend to the city council only those
expenditures which are within the limits established by the working budget.
(Ord. 0-18-74-B, 3-1-1976)
   (K)   Prepare and submit to the mayor and the city council a written report
summarizing the activities of each department, office and operation of the
city, including appropriate financial information annually at the end of each
fiscal year.
   (L)   Keep a current inventory showing all real and personal property of the
city and the location of such property and be responsible for the care and
custody of all such property, including equipment, buildings, land and all such
property which is not by law assigned to some other officer or body for care
and control. (Ord. 0-18-74, 10-7-1974)
   (M)   Devote full time to the discharge of the duties assigned to the city
administrator. (Ord. 0-18-74-A, 4-7-1975)
   (N)   See to it that all terms of any contract to which the city is a party
are fully performed. (Ord. 0-18-74, 10-7-1974)
   (O)   Enforce such work rules and other personnel procedures as may be from
time to time adopted by the corporate authorities by ordinance, resolution or
motion. (1978 Code)
   (P)   Provide methods, procedures and management, including personnel, so
that all municipal records required by law to be kept by the city are properly
kept. Where the law makes it the duty of a specific officer to keep or maintain
records, the city administrator shall provide all methods, procedures and
management and clerical assistance for the preparation and keeping of such
records and shall make available a place for the custody of such records.
   (Q)   Perform such other duties as may be directed by the mayor or as may be
prescribed by the statutes of the state, by this chapter, by any ordinance or
resolution of the city council. (Ord. 0-18-74, 10-7-1974)
1-6-6: AUTHORIZED EXPENDITURES:
   (A)   The city administrator may incur and authorize, for inclusion on the
city council expenditures warrant, the following expenditures:
      1.   An expenditure of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or less; and
      2.   Any expenditure in the operating or capital category which does not
exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) for which the funds are: a)
specifically identified as a separate item in the current fiscal year budget;
b) where the amount of expenditure does not exceed the amount budgeted in the
city budget; and c) the city administrator has obtained at least two (2)
written bids or quotes.
      3.   All expenditures in the contractual services category require city
council approval.
      4.   No contracts are allowed to roll over without at least two (2)
written bids and city council approval.
   (B)   The city administrator may approve the issuance of payment checks
prior to approval by the city council under the following circumstances:
      1.   For an emergency expenditure in the amount of two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500.00) or less in which event the administrator shall
promptly report such expenditure to the city council.
      2.   For any capital expenditure over two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00) which has previously been approved by the city council.
   (C)   No other expenditures may be approved by the city administrator
without prior authorization of the city council. (Ord. 0-37-03, 12-1-2003)
CHAPTER 7
CITY OFFICERS, COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Position Created; Appointment
1-7-2: Powers And Duties
1-7-3: Police Powers Of Certain Officers And Employees
1-7-4: Creation Of Certain Municipal Offices
1-7-1: POSITION CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the position of Director of Finance, an administrative
management employee in the City. The Director of Finance shall be appointed by
the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council and subject to
removal by the Mayor. The Director of Finance shall, report directly to the
City Administrator. (Ord. O-29-24, 12-16-2024)
1-7-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Director of Finance shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Prepare and encourage the use of efficient planning, budgeting,
auditing, reports, accounting and other fiscal management procedures.
   (B)   Assist the City Administrator in obtaining such information from the
city, its departments, commissions and boards as may be useful for the purposes
of compiling an annual budget.
   (C)   Receive all money paid into the city treasury, either directly from
the person paying the same or from such other officers who may receive it, and
pay out money only on vouchers or orders when signed by the proper city
officials.
   (D)   Keep records of all monies received by the city showing the source
from which it is received and the purpose for which it is paid out; and such
records shall, at all times, show the financial status of the city.
   (E)   Keep books and accounts and prepare the annual audit in the manner
required by the city.
   (F)   Examine all books and records which relate to monies received, monies
paid out, including debts and accounts receivable and amounts owed by or to the
city, its' city departments, commissions, and boards.
   (G)   Furnish, as often as required by the city, a full and detailed account
of all receipts and disbursements of the city as shown by city financial
records up to the time of such report.
   (H)   Keep a register of all warrants, describing each warrant by showing
its date, amount and number, the fund from which paid, the name of the person
to whom paid and when paid as required by statute.
   (I)   Supervise staff as directed by the City Administrator and confer with
and advise subordinates concerning work problems and development of an
installation of new work procedures.
   (J)   Review general procedures, methods and results of the various
activities of the Finance Department, including budgeting, budgeting control,
data processing, financial reporting, insurance, purchasing, collecting,
treasury management and personnel assistance.
   (K)   Other duties as assigned by the City Administrator. (Ord. O-29-24, 12-
16-2024)
1-7-3: POLICE POWERS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
The following municipal employees are hereby granted police power for the
purpose of seeking compliance to and enforcement of ordinances of the city
relating to their respective departments, which ordinances shall be generally,
but not limited to, those set forth below after each respective municipal
employee:
   (A)   Supervisor of public works, to whom is granted the power to enforce
ordinances including, but not limited to, those relating to the supervision,
regulation, inspection and maintenance of public improvements and public works
of the city;
   (B)   Public works inspector, to whom is granted the power, with the
approval of his supervisor, to enforce ordinances including, but not limited
to, those relating to the inspection of public improvements and public works in
the city;
   (C)   Building department supervisor, to whom is granted the power to
enforce ordinances including, but not limited to, the zoning, building and
subdivision ordinances;
   (D)   Building inspector, to whom is granted the power, with the approval of
his supervisor, to enforce ordinances including, but not limited to, the
zoning, building and subdivision ordinances;
   (E)   Water department supervisor, to whom is granted the power to enforce
ordinances including, but not limited to, those relating to the inspection,
repair, maintenance and charges of the water and sewer systems of the city;
   (F)   Electrical inspector, to whom is granted the power, with the approval
of his supervisor, to enforce ordinances including, but not limited to, the
electrical code currently adopted by the city;
   (G)   Plumbing inspector, to whom is granted the power, with the approval of
his supervisor, to enforce ordinances including, but not limited to, the
plumbing code currently adopted by the city; and
   (H)   Administrative assistant/engineering, to whom is granted the power,
with the approval of his supervisor, to enforce all ordinances currently
adopted by the city.
The municipal employees listed in this section are hereby made conservators of
the peace for the purpose of seeking compliance to and enforcement of
ordinances relating to their respective departments, including, but not limited
to, those ordinances listed in this section. (Ord. 0-02-76, 3-1-1976)
1-7-4: CREATION OF CERTAIN MUNICIPAL OFFICES:
In addition to any other offices created within this code or elsewhere within
the ordinances of the city, the following offices are hereby created:
administrative assistant/engineering, plumbing inspector, electrical inspector.
(Ord. 0-37-79, 11-5-1979)
CHAPTER 8
CITY PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-8-1: Personnel Policies
1-8-2: Grievance Procedure
1-8-1: PERSONNEL POLICIES:
The City Council may, by resolution, adopt such personnel policies as the
Council may find necessary and appropriate. The City retains the right to
modify, amend, change or alter any such policies, it being the intent of the
City Council that such policies do not provide the basis for the formation of a
contract. (Ord. 0-57-91, 8-19-1991)
1-8-2: GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE:
Any employee having a grievance relating to the applications of rules,
regulations and/or procedures of the department or general administration, may
institute a grievance in accordance with the grievance procedures.
Grievance procedure is defined as a claim or dispute arising out of the
application or interpretation of rules, regulations and/or procedures of the
department or personnel ordinances of the City, and all grievances shall be
processed in the following manner:
   (A)   An employee having a grievance must first take it up with their
department supervisor within three (3) working days of the occurrence out of
which the grievance arose. Said supervisor shall note the date and time of the
grievance report, in memo form, for the individual's file and give the employee
an answer within three (3) working days.
   (B)   Failing a satisfactory solution by the parties, the employee may,
within three (3) working days, submit the grievance in writing to the City
Administrator, who in turn shall render a decision in writing within five (5)
working days.
   (C)   Again failing satisfaction by the parties involved, the employee may,
within three (3) working days, submit the grievance in writing to the Mayor.
The decision of the Mayor, in writing, will be final and will be made within
five (5) working days.
   (D)   In the event that the grievance directly involved the department
supervisor, the grievance shall be filed with the Administrator. In the event
that the grievance directly involved the Administrator, the grievance shall be
filed directly with the Mayor. In each case, the grievance must be filed within
three (3) working days of the occurrence out of which the grievance arose.
   (E)   In the event that the person required to review the grievance shall be
ill, on vacation or otherwise not at work during any period within which a
grievance is required to be reviewed, the period of time set forth herein for
such review shall be extended to two (2) working days after that person's
return to official duties. (Ord. 0-03-82, 1-18-1982)
CHAPTER 9
CITY FINANCES
SECTION:
1-9-1: Estimates Of Expenditures
1-9-2: Annual Budget; Budget Officer
1-9-3: Tax Levy
1-9-4: Indebtedness
1-9-5: Payment By Treasurer
1-9-6: Audit Of Accounts
1-9-7: Invest Surplus Funds
1-9-8: Depositories
1-9-9: Interest Penalties On Overdue Bills
1-9-1: ESTIMATES OF EXPENDITURES:
   (A)   City Departments: On or before April 1 of each year, department heads
of the City shall submit to the City Administrator an estimate of anticipated
expenditures for their departments.
   (B)   City Officers: On or before April 1 of each year, the officers of the
City shall prepare and deliver to the chairman of the Administrative Committee
an estimate of anticipated expenditures to be met during the coming year for
the activities which are the direct responsibility of such officer or the
direct responsibility of a committee or commission of which such officer is a
member. (Ord. 0-03-71, 3-15-1971; amd. 1978 Code)
1-9-2: ANNUAL BUDGET; BUDGET OFFICER:
   (A)   65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-2-9.1 through 5/8-2-9.9, as now in
effect and hereafter amended, providing for the adoption of an annual budget
and providing for the designation of a budget officer, be and they are hereby
adopted and incorporated by reference for the City of Darien, DuPage County,
Illinois.
   (B)   There is hereby created the office of Budget Officer who shall be
designated by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council. The Budget
Officer shall have the powers and duties of a budget officer provided for in 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-2-9.2 and 5/8-2-9.3 now in effect and as
hereafter amended. In addition:
      1.   The Budget Officer may make adjustments and transfers between line
items within any separate category or fund within the budget up to the amount
of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), so long as such transfer does not affect
the total approved budget amount within said fund or category. The Budget
Officer shall thereafter promptly report such adjustments and transfers to the
Administrative/Finance Committee.
      2.   Line item adjustments within a budget category or fund over one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or any other amendments or adjustments to the
budget, shall first be presented to the Administrative/Finance Committee for
review and recommendation to the City Council for final Council action. (Ord.
0-65-90, 12-17-1990)
1-9-3: TAX LEVY:
A tax levy ordinance shall be enacted as required by law, levying such taxes as
may be needed to meet the anticipated expenses of the coming year, together
with such taxes as may be required to meet outstanding bond issues or for
purposes payable from special taxes properly authorized.
A certified copy of the tax ordinance shall be filed with the County Clerk in
DuPage County in the manner as provided by law. (Ord. 0-03-71, 3-15-1971; amd.
1978 Code)
1-9-4: INDEBTEDNESS:
Except as provided by law no indebtedness shall be incurred, excepting such
indebtedness as may be payable solely from the proceeds of a duly authorized
bond issue or from a designated specified source, unless there is a prior
appropriation out of which such indebtedness could be paid, as provided by
statute. Provided, that during the first quarter of any fiscal year, before the
enactment of the current appropriation ordinance, the City may operate under
the appropriation ordinance of the preceding year. (Ord. 0-03-71, 3-15-1971;
amd. 1978 Code)
1-9-5: PAYMENT BY TREASURER:
The city treasurer shall pay out money in payment of all bills, or for
salaries, or for any other purpose other than the retirement of principal or
interest on bonds or tax anticipation warrants as provided by law. (Ord. 0-03-
71, 3-15-1971; amd. 1978 Code)
1-9-6: AUDIT OF ACCOUNTS:
As soon as practicable at the close of each fiscal year, and no later than six
(6) months thereafter, there shall be an audit of all accounts of the city made
by a competent person authorized to act as an auditor under the laws of
Illinois, to be designated by the city council. Copies of such audit report
shall be filed with the clerk and with the director of the state department of
revenue and in such other places as may be required by law. (Ord. 0-03-71, 3-
15-1971; amd. 1978 Code)
1-9-7: INVEST SURPLUS FUNDS:
As there will be times when the bank accounts of the city will generate a
surplus of monies which could be earning interest for the city, the treasurer
is hereby allowed to invest such funds as he deems it necessary and appropriate
from time to time in the manner as provided by law.
All interest derived from said investment monies shall be credited to the
account from which the principal was derived. (Ord. 0-21-70, 7-20-1970; amd.
Ord. 0-36-73, 1973; 1978 Code)
1-9-8: DEPOSITORIES:
The treasurer of the city may invest municipal funds in any financial
institution which is designated from time to time by the city council. (1978
Code)
1-9-9: INTEREST PENALTIES ON OVERDUE BILLS:
Except where specifically provided elsewhere in this code, whenever the city
provides any goods or services for which payment is due and owing, or whenever
the city imposes a fee, all such bills shall be paid within thirty (30) days of
the date of invoice. Any bill not paid within thirty (30) days of billing shall
have a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the original amount added to the bill
and a subsequent bill issued. Said penalty shall increase by an additional ten
percent (10%) for each additional thirty (30) days or fraction thereof for
which the bill remains overdue with a maximum penalty charge of forty percent
(40%).
The city administrator may compromise and settle payment for outstanding bills.
No settlement or compromise shall result in the payment of less than the amount
originally billed plus ten percent (10%) without specific approval from the
city council. Any arrangements or contracts with a collection agency shall
receive the prior approval of the city council.
A notice outlining the penalties provided for herein shall be included on all
bills or statements issued by the city which are subject to these procedures.
(Ord. 0-24-01, 5-21-2001)
CHAPTER 10
CITY ELECTION
SECTION:
1-10-1: Wards Established
1-10-2: Terms Of Office
1-10-3: Staggered Terms
1-10-1: WARDS ESTABLISHED:
The city of Darien be and hereby is divided into seven (7) wards, the numbers
and boundaries of which shall be as follows:
   WARD NO. 1
      Beginning at the center line of 75th Street at its intersection with
Nantucket Drive; thence west along said line to the intersection thereof with
the center line of Plainfield Road; thence southwest along the center line of
Plainfield Road to the intersection thereof with the center line of Bailey
Road; thence south along the center line of Bailey Road south of Frontage Road;
thence south along the western boundary of the City at said point to its
intersection thereof with the City's southern boundary at said point; thence
east along said southern boundary to the intersection thereof with the eastern
boundary of the City; thence north along said eastern boundary line at this
point in a generally northern direction to the center line of Wilmette Drive;
thence north along the center line of Wilmette Drive to the intersection
thereof with the City's boundary line; thence east along said line to the
intersection thereof with the City's boundary line; thence south along the
City's boundary line to the City's southern boundary line adjacent to Frontage
Road; then east along said boundary line to the intersection thereof with the
City's boundary line; thence north along said boundary line to the intersection
thereof with the City's north boundary line; thence in a west/northwesterly
direction along said boundary line to the intersection thereof with the City's
boundary line located generally along the rear lot lines of the properties
located on the south side of 79th Street; thence east across said rear lot
lines to the intersection thereof with the center line of Nantucket Drive;
thence north along the center line of Nantucket Drive to the place of
beginning.
   WARD NO. 2
      Beginning at the center line of 67th Street and U.S. Route 83; thence
south along the City's eastern border to the intersection thereof with the City
limits located generally along the rear lot lines of the properties located on
the south side of 74th Street; thence west along said line along the City's
boundary to the intersection thereof with the City's boundary located just east
of Tennessee Avenue; thence north along said line to the intersection thereof
with the center line of Plainfield Road; thence southwest along the center line
of Plainfield Road to the intersection thereof with the east lot line of the
properties located along the east side of Tennessee Avenue; thence north along
said line to the intersection thereof with the center line of 72nd Street;
thence west along the center line of 72nd Street to the intersection thereof
with the center line of Richmond Avenue; thence north along the center line of
Richmond Avenue to the intersection thereof with the City's northern boundary
line; thence east along the City's northern boundary line to the place of
beginning.
   WARD NO. 3
      Beginning at the center line of the intersection of 75th Street and
Plainfield Road; thence southwest along the center line of Plainfield Road to
its intersection thereof with the City's boundary line located just east of
Williams Street; thence in a generally north-northwest direction along the
City's boundary line to the intersection thereof with the center line of 75th
Street; thence west along the center line of 75th Street to its intersection
thereof with the City's boundary line at Fairview Avenue; thence north along
said boundary line to the intersection thereof with the City's northern
boundary line; thence east along the City's northern boundary line to its
intersection with the center line of Cass Avenue; thence south along the center
line of Cass Avenue to its intersection with the center line of 75th Street;
thence east along the center line of 75th Street to the place of beginning,
excluding therefrom that territory west of Cass Avenue, north of 75th Street,
and south of Darien Club Drive located in unincorporated DuPage County. Also
included is the City Hall property.
   WARD NO. 4
      Beginning at the center line of 75th Street with its intersection with
Plainfield Road; thence northeast along the center line of Plainfield Road to
its intersection thereof with the City's boundary line located just west of
Tennessee Avenue; thence in a generally southern direction along the City's
border line to the intersection thereof with the City's southern boundary line
south of Interstate 55; thence west along said south boundary line a short
distance to the intersection thereof with the City's boundary line; thence
north along said boundary line, proceeding north of Interstate 55 to its
intersection thereof with the City's boundary line located along the rear lot
line of the property located along the south side of 79th Street just east of
Nantucket Drive; thence west along said boundary line to the intersection
thereof with the center line of Nantucket Drive; thence north along Nantucket
Drive to the intersection thereof with the center line of 75th Street; thence
west along the center line of 75th Street to the intersection thereof with the
center line of Plainfield Road; thence northeast along the center line of
Plainfield Road to the place of beginning.
   WARD NO. 5
      Beginning at the center line of 87th Street and Lemont Road; thence
proceeding in a generally eastern direction along the City's boundary line to
its intersection thereof with the City's boundary line located just north of
Kimberly Court; thence in the generally northern direction along said boundary
line to its intersection with the center line of Plainfield Road; thence
northeast along the center line of Plainfield Road to its intersection with the
center line of Bailey Road; thence south along the center line of Bailey Road
to its intersection with the City's boundary line located just south of
Interstate 55; thence in a generally southwest direction along the City's south
boundary line to its intersection with the City's west boundary line located at
the southwestern terminus of the I-55/Lemont Road interchange; thence north
along the City's western boundary line to the point where said boundary line
intersects with the City's boundary line proceeding further to the west; thence
north along the center line of Lemont Road to the place of beginning. Also
included is the property at the northwest corner of the intersection of 103rd
Street and Lemont Road within the City boundaries.
   WARD NO. 6
      Beginning at the intersection of the City's western boundary line located
just west of Alden Lane and the City's boundary line located at the center line
of 83rd Street; thence east along said boundary line to the intersection
thereof with the City's boundary line located along the center line of Lemont
Road; thence north along said boundary line to the intersection thereof with
the City's boundary line located at the center line of 75th Street; thence east
along said boundary line to the City's boundary line located generally along
the west side of Queens Court; thence in a generally southerly direction along
the City's boundary line to the intersection thereof with Manning Road; thence
southeast along the center line of Manning Road to its intersection with the
center line of Plainfield Road; thence southwest along the center line of
Plainfield Road in a generally westerly direction along the City's boundary
line to the intersection thereof with the City's boundary line located
generally south of the rear lot lines of the properties on the south side of
Green Valley Road approximately 1/8th mile east of Lemont Road; thence south
along said boundary line to its intersection with the City's boundary line
located just south of 83rd Street; thence west along said boundary line to the
intersection thereof with the City's boundary line located at the center line
of Lemont Road; thence south along said boundary line to the intersection
thereof with the City's south boundary line located south of 87th Street;
thence west along said southern boundary line to the City's western boundary
line located along the west line of Ailsworth Drive; thence north along the
City's west boundary line to the place of beginning.
   WARD NO. 7
      Beginning at the center line of Richmond Avenue at its intersection
thereof with the City's northernmost boundary located north of 67th Street;
thence south along the center line of Richmond Avenue to the intersection
thereof with the center line of 72nd Street; thence east along the center line
of 72nd Street to the intersection thereof with the east lot line of the
properties located along the east side of Tennessee Avenue, if extended; thence
south along said east lot line of Tennessee Avenue to the intersection thereof
with Plainfield Road; thence southwest along the center line of Plainfield Road
to the intersection thereof with 75th Street; thence west along the center line
of 75th Street to the intersection thereof with the center line of Cass Avenue;
thence north along the center line of Cass Avenue to the intersection thereof
with the center line of 67th Street; thence north and east along the City
boundary; thence east along said northern boundary to the place of beginning;
excluding therefrom all properties located north of 67th, east of Ridge Road,
and west of Richmond Avenue not currently located within the City of Darien.
   For reference purposes, the wards established hereunder include the
following precincts as heretofore established by the DuPage County election
commission. An asterisk (*) means that a portion of the named precinct lies in
the indicated ward:
Wards Precincts
Wards Precincts
1     24*, 41*, 56*, 60*, 67*, 95*, 117*
2     42*, 66*, 86, 99*, 103*, 105*, 106*
3     56*, 67*, 78, 97*, 102*, 115*
4     24*, 60*, 99*, 100, 117*
5     5*, 41*, 89*, 95*, 108*, 110*, 122*
6     5*, 77*, 90*, 93, 97*, 108*
7     57, 66*, 70, 105*, 106*
 
(Ord. 0-09-03, 2-3-2003)
1-10-2: TERMS OF OFFICE:
The officers elected at each municipal election shall be inaugurated at the
beginning of the first regular or special meeting of the corporate authorities
after receipt of the official election results from the county clerk of the
regular municipal election. (Ord. 0-40-08, 10-20-2008)
1-10-3: STAGGERED TERMS:
As of the April 5, 2005 regular election to be held in the city of Darien, the
terms of the city aldermen shall be staggered as follows: At the April 5, 2005
election, the aldermen for the even numbered wards, wards 2, 4, and 6 shall be
elected for a term of two (2) years and shall serve a term of two (2) years.
The aldermen for the odd numbered wards, wards 1, 3, 5 and 7 shall be elected
for a term of four (4) years and serve a term of four (4) years. Thereafter,
the successors from the even numbered wards, wards 2, 4 and 6, shall be elected
for terms of four (4) years at the regular election for aldermen to be held in
April 2007, and thereafter. The successors from the odd numbered wards, wards
1, 3, 5, and 7, shall be elected for terms of four (4) years at the regular
election for aldermen to be held in April 2009, and thereafter. (Ord. 0-29-04,
9-20-2004)
CHAPTER 11
CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ETHICS
SECTION:
1-11-1: Policy Statement And Definition
1-11-2: Affected Persons
1-11-3: Statutes Not Affected
1-11-4: Standards Of Conduct
1-11-5: Disclosure Of Real Estate
1-11-6: Disclosure Of Business Interests
1-11-7: Disclosure Of Other Employment
1-11-8: Filing And Disclosure
1-11-9: Disclosure And Abstention By Council Members
1-11-10: Disclosure And Abstention By Appointed Officials
1-11-11: Disclosure By Department Heads
1-11-12: Acceptance Of Gifts, Gratuities, Contributions Or Other Valuable Items
1-11-13: Ethical Rulings
1-11-14: Complaints
1-11-15: Complaint Procedures
1-11-16: Alternative Remedial Proceedings
1-11-17: Political Activities And Gift Ban
1-11-17-1: Definitions
1-11-17-2: Prohibited Political Activities
1-11-17-3: Gift Ban
1-11-17-4: Exceptions
1-11-17-5: Disposition Of Gifts
1-11-17-6: City Attorney As Ethics Advisor
1-11-17-7: Complaint Procedure To Be Followed
1-11-17-8: Penalties
1-11-1: POLICY STATEMENT AND DEFINITION:
   (A)   Policy Statement: It is the policy of the city that its elected and
appointed officials and all department heads should, in all cases, exercise
their judgment and perform their official duties for the sole benefit of the
city and its citizens. All such persons should avoid any situation where their
private pecuniary interests would impair or may tend to impair the exercise of
their independent judgment for the benefit of the city and its citizens. It is
further the policy of the city that even the appearance of impropriety created
by any conflict between official duties and an apparent pecuniary interest
should be avoided.
   (B)   Definition Of "Interest": For purposes of this section through section
1-11-16 of this chapter, "interest" shall mean a direct or indirect pecuniary
interest accruing to a "person affected" as defined in section
1-11-2 of this chapter whether in that person's own name or the name of any
person or trust from which the person is entitled to receive any financial
benefit as a result of a contract or transaction that is or will become the
subject of an official act by the affected person with the city.
"Interest" shall not include any such benefit accruing as a result of any such
contracts or transactions that by their terms and substance confer on all other
citizens of the city the opportunity and right to realize similar benefits.
(Ord. 0-44-88, 12-19-1988)
1-11-2: AFFECTED PERSONS:
All of the provisions of this chapter, except as may otherwise be indicated,
apply to all elected city officials, all appointed city officials and members
of boards and commissions, the city administrator and department heads who are
hereinafter referred to as "affected persons". Other employees shall be
governed by applicable state law, personnel policies or personnel manuals, if
any; provided, however, that section
1-11-12 of this chapter shall be applicable to all city employees. (Ord. 0-44-
88, 12-19-1988)
1-11-3: STATUTES NOT AFFECTED:
This chapter is intended to be declaratory of and consistent with the
substantive ethical requirements of Illinois common and statutory law. This
chapter shall not be construed as creating any ethical duty less restrictive
than that contained in applicable common and statutory law. (Ord. 0-44-88, 12-
19-1988)
1-11-4: STANDARDS OF CONDUCT:
No affected person shall have any interest in any contract, work or business of
the city, except as permitted by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-14-4 as it
now exists or may hereafter be amended. (Ord. 0-44-88, 12-19-1988)
1-11-5: DISCLOSURE OF REAL ESTATE:
Each affected person shall file, with the city clerk, a statement disclosing
direct or indirect ownership of any real property located within the corporate
limits of the city, owned by the person required to file or by the spouse of
such person. Such statement shall include the legal description and common
address of the real estate and shall indicate the ownership interest held in
such real estate.
For the purpose of this section, the ownership of a beneficial interest in real
estate held in land trust, real property being purchased by contract or real
property held by a corporation, an investment group or partnership in which the
person filing shall own more than a five percent (5%) interest, shall be
considered real property.
The property in which the affected person resides shall be exempt from the
provisions of this section, unless said property contains more than three (3)
residential units. (Ord. 0-44-88, 12-19-1988)
1-11-6: DISCLOSURE OF BUSINESS INTERESTS:
Each affected person shall file, with the city clerk, a statement disclosing
any ownership interest of greater than five percent (5%), either direct or
indirect, which the affected person or his or her spouse has in any business,
firm or corporation. (Ord. 0-44-88, 12-19-1988)
1-11-7: DISCLOSURE OF OTHER EMPLOYMENT:
Each affected person shall file, with the city clerk, a statement indicating
all current employment and all employment for the previous calendar year of the
affected person and his or her spouse. Said statement shall include the name of
the employing entity and the nature of the service rendered in the course of
such employment.
The statement shall further disclose whether the affected person directly or
indirectly performed any service for compensation for the city other than that
performed in his official capacity with the city, or was associated with or
employed by a corporation or partnership which received compensation for
services performed for the city. (Ord. 0-44-88, 12-19-1988)
1-11-8: FILING AND DISCLOSURE:
All disclosure statements described in sections
1-11-5 through
1-11-7 of this chapter shall be filed with the city clerk on or before May 1 of
each calendar year, except as hereinafter set forth, or within sixty (60) days
after the affected person first assumed his or her office, position or
employment with the city.
Persons already obligated to file disclosure statements pursuant to the laws of
the state may file copies of said statements with the city clerk in
satisfaction of the requirements of this chapter, except that any information
required by this chapter and not contained on other filed statements, must be
separately filed herein.
The disclosure statements described herein shall be kept for five (5) years,
from the date of filing, by the city clerk. Said records shall be considered
public records. A request to view records shall be made in writing, with a copy
of said request given to the individual whose records are to be viewed. Nothing
herein shall prevent the city clerk from establishing reasonable rules and
regulations governing when the records may be viewed and from requiring a
reasonable charge for copying any of said records. (Ord. 0-44-88, 12-19-1988)
1-11-9: DISCLOSURE AND ABSTENTION BY COUNCIL MEMBERS:
Any affected person who is an elected or appointed member of the city council,
and who has an interest in any proposed contract, work, business or land use
application with the city shall publicly declare the nature and extent of such
interest at the first city council meeting at which the proposed contract, work
or business or application is first called on the agenda for consideration.
In the event such member's interest is permitted under 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/3-14-4, such member shall not deliberate on the matter in his
official capacity on the proposed contract, work or business, and such member
shall not vote on said matter.
In the event such member's interest is determined not to be permitted under 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-14-4, no such contract, work or business shall
be awarded, granted or entered into. (Ord. 0-44-88, 12-19-1988)
1-11-10: DISCLOSURE AND ABSTENTION BY APPOINTED OFFICIALS:
Any affected person who is an appointed member of the several boards and
commissions of the city having an interest in any actual or proposed contract,
work, business or land use application of the city shall disclose the nature
and extent of such interest in writing to the city administrator immediately
upon learning of such contract, work or business.
In the event such member's own board or commission is required to review or
recommend such contract, work or business, such person shall publicly disclose
the nature and extent of such interest at the first meeting at which the
contract, work or business is first called for consideration, such person shall
not participate in his official capacity during discussion, deliberation and
vote on the contract, work or business, and such person shall not vote on said
matter.
In the event such interest is determined not to be permitted under 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/3-14-4, such officer shall, prior to final council action
on the contract under consideration, either tender his resignation or notify
the council of his intent not to resign, in which case no contract work or
business shall be awarded to the officer. Any appointed member of a board or
commission of the city who knowingly fails to disclose any such interest shall
be subject to reprimand, or removal from office as determined by majority vote
of the city council. (Ord. 0-44-88, 12-19-1988)
1-11-11: DISCLOSURE BY DEPARTMENT HEADS:
In the event that the city administrator or any department head of the city
should have an interest in any actual or proposed contract, work, business or
land use application in the city, such affected person shall disclose the
nature and extent of such interest in writing to the city clerk immediately
upon learning of such contract, work or business. Such disclosure shall be
referred to the city council.
The city council shall reject any proposed contract, work or business which
directly affects such person's department or where such person is in a position
to recommend, as part of his official duties, any such contract, work or
business.
In the event such interest in any actual contract, work or business is
determined not to be permitted under 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-14-4, or
such person fails to disclose any such interest as required herein, such person
shall be subject to remedial action as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 0-44-88,
12-19-1988)
1-11-12: ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS, GRATUITIES, CONTRIBUTIONS OR OTHER VALUABLE
ITEMS:
No affected person or employee shall take or receive, or offer to take or
receive, either directly or indirectly, any money or other thing of value as an
inducement for, or compensation for, an official act or action. Any money or
thing so received shall be promptly surrendered to the city for the sole use
and benefit of the city.
In addition, no affected person or employee shall take or receive any city
property, funds or the services of any city employee for anything other than a
proper public purpose. (Ord. 0-07-91, 1-21-1991)
1-11-13: ETHICAL RULINGS:
Any affected person who has a question as to the applicability of this chapter
in a particular situation may apply, in writing, to the city council for a
ruling. Such a ruling shall be provided by the city council. (Ord. 0-44-88, 12-
19-1988)
1-11-14: COMPLAINTS:
Complaints that an affected person has violated its provisions shall be made in
writing and signed by the complainant. Complaints shall be filed with:
   (A)   The city administrator in the case of city employees or the city
clerk;
   (B)   The city clerk for referral to the city council in all other cases.
(Ord. 0-44-88, 12-19-1988)
1-11-15: COMPLAINT PROCEDURES:
Any person against whom a complaint has been filed shall be heard by the city
administrator in the case of city employees or by a committee of the city
council in all other cases. Any such person shall have the right to be
represented by counsel, to confront and cross examine all witnesses and to
compel the appearance of any city officers or employees who have knowledge of
the allegations contained in the complaint.
In the event that the city administrator or the committee of the city council
find that a complaint has been sustained, in whole or in part, by a
preponderance of the evidence, the city administrator, in the case of city
employees, shall take appropriate remedial action. In all other cases, the
committee shall recommend remedial action to the full city council which shall
take final action. Remedial action may consist of a reprimand, suspension
without pay or removal from employment or office where permitted by law. (Ord.
0-44-88, 12-19-1988)
1-11-16: ALTERNATIVE REMEDIAL PROCEEDINGS:
In addition to, or in lieu of, the complaint procedures set forth in sections
1-11-14 and
1-11-15 of this chapter, the city council or the city administrator may refer
any possible violation of this chapter to the city attorney for prosecution
under the general penalty provisions of this code, to the state attorney's
office for prosecution or to the board of fire and police commissioners where
appropriate. (Ord. 0-44-88, 12-19-1988)
1-11-17: POLITICAL ACTIVITIES AND GIFT BAN:
1-11-17-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this section
1-11-17, the following terms shall be given these definitions:
CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE: Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of presidential or vice
presidential electors, but does not include activities: a) relating to the
support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or administrative action,
b) relating to collective bargaining, or c) that are otherwise in furtherance
of the person's official duties.
CANDIDATE: A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for nomination
or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill a vacancy
in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot at a
regular election, as defined in section 1-3 of the election code 1 .
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section
3 of the Illinois public labor relations act 2 .
COMPENSATED TIME: With respect to an employee, any time worked by or credited
to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement imposed as
a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this section
1-11-17, does not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal
time, compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of
absence. With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed,
"compensated time" includes any period of time when the officer is on premises
under the control of the employer and any other time when the officer or
employee is executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an employee
to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the minimum work
time required of that employee as a condition of his or her employment.
CONTRIBUTION: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section 9-1.4 of
the election code 3 .
EMPLOYEE: A person employed by the city, whether on a full time or part time
basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the direction and
control of an employer with regard to the material details of how the work is
to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
EMPLOYER: The city.
GIFT: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance, or
other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER: Parents, spouse, brothers, sisters, children,
grandparents, grandchildren, parents-in-law, brothers-in-law, sisters-in-law,
and legal guardians.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE: Any period during which an employee does not receive: a)
compensation for employment, b) service credit towards pension benefits, and c)
health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
OFFICER: A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created by
statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
POLITICAL ACTIVITY: Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities: a) relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action, b) relating to collective bargaining, or
c) that are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
POLITICAL ORGANIZATION: A party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the state board of elections or a county clerk under
section 9-3 of the election code 4 , but only with regard to those activities
that require filing with the state board of elections or a county clerk.
PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY:
   (A)   Preparing for, organizing, or participating in any political meeting,
political rally, political demonstration, or other political event.
   (B)   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the purchase
of, selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any political
fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event.
   (C)   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document or
report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.
   (D)   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   (E)   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters in
an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   (F)   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   (G)   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
   (H)   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
   (I)   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office in
that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
   (J)   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires.
   (K)   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.
   (L)   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   (M)   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
   (N)   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention.
   (O)   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
PROHIBITED SOURCE: Any person or entity who:
   (A)   Is seeking official action: 1) by an officer or 2) by an employee, or
by the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   (B)   Does business or seeks to do business: 1) with the officer or 2) with
an employee, or with the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   (C)   Conducts activities regulated: 1) by the officer or 2) by an employee,
or by the officer or another employee directing that employee; or
   (D)   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or
nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee. (Ord. 0-16-
04, 5-17-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 10 ILCS 5/1-3.
2 2. 5 ILCS 315/3.
3 3. 10 ILCS 5/9-1.4.
4 1. 10 ILCS 5/9-3.
1-11-17-2: PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES:
   (A)   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any compensated time. No officer or employee shall
intentionally use any property or resources of the city in connection with any
prohibited political activity.
   (B)   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity: 1) as
part of that officer's or employee's duties, 2) as a condition of employment,
or 3) during any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or personal
time off).
   (C)   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this section
1-11-17.
   (E)   No person either: 1) in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment or 2) in a position the salary for which is
paid in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the federal
standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant in
aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club. (Ord. 0-16-04, 5-17-
2004)
1-11-17-3: GIFT BAN:
Except as permitted by this section
1-11-17, no officer or employee, and no spouse of or immediate family member
living with any officer or employee (collectively referred to herein as
"recipients"), shall intentionally solicit or accept any gift from any
"prohibited source", as defined herein, or which is otherwise prohibited by law
or ordinance. No prohibited source shall intentionally offer or make a gift
that violates this section. (Ord. 0-16-04, 5-17-2004)
1-11-17-4: EXCEPTIONS:
Section
1-11-17-3 of this chapter is not applicable to the following:
   (A)   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the same
conditions as for the general public.
   (B)   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse or
immediate family member, pays the fair market value.
   (C)   Any: 1) contribution that is lawfully made under the election code or
2) activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a political
organization or candidate.
   (D)   Educational materials and missions.
   (E)   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss city business.
   (F)   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the individual
as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, great aunt,
great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife, grandfather,
grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law,
daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother,
stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half sister, and
including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the individual's
spouse and the individual's fiance or fiancee.
   (G)   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as: 1) the history of the
relationship between the individual giving the gift and the recipient of the
gift, including any previous exchange of gifts between those individuals; 2)
whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual who gave the
gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or business
reimbursement for the gift; and 3) whether to the actual knowledge of the
recipient the individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same
or similar gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate
family members.
   (H)   Food or refreshments not exceeding seventy five dollars ($75.00) per
person in value on a single calendar day; provided that the food or
refreshments are: 1) consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared or 2) catered. For the purposes of this section, "catered" means food
or refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by any
means.
   (I)   Intragovernmental and intergovernmental gifts. For the purpose of this
act, "intragovernmental gift" means any gift given to an officer or employee
from another officer or employee, and "intergovernmental gift" means any gift
given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity.
   (J)   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
   (K)   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any calendar
year having a cumulative total value of less than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
Each of the exceptions listed in this section is mutually exclusive and
independent of every other. (Ord. 0-16-04, 5-17-2004)
1-11-17-5: DISPOSITION OF GIFTS:
An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an immediate family member living
with the officer or employee, does not violate this section
1-11-17 if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift from
a prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to its
value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under
section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as now or hereafter
amended, renumbered, or succeeded. (Ord. 0-16-04, 5-17-2004)
1-11-17-6: CITY ATTORNEY AS ETHICS ADVISOR:
The city attorney shall serve as an ethics advisor for the city. The duties of
the ethics advisor may be delegated to an officer or employee of the city by
the mayor with the advice and consent of the city council.
The ethics advisor shall provide guidance to the officers and employees of the
city concerning the interpretation of and compliance with the provisions of
this section
1-11-17 and state ethics laws. The ethics advisor shall perform such other
duties as may be delegated by the city. (Ord. 0-16-04, 5-17-2004)
1-11-17-7: COMPLAINT PROCEDURE TO BE FOLLOWED:
Complaints that an employee, or third person, has violated any of the
provisions of section
1-11-17-2 or
1-11-17-3 of this chapter shall be investigated by the city administrator in
accordance with the complaint procedure set forth in section
1-11-15 of this chapter. Complaints involving either an elected or appointed
city officer, or the city administrator, shall be investigated by the city
council in accordance with the complaint procedure set forth in section
1-11-15 of this chapter. (Ord. 0-16-04, 5-17-2004)
1-11-17-8: PENALTIES:
   (A)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-11-17-2 of this chapter may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal
institution other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than three
hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   (B)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-11-17-3 of this chapter is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than
one thousand one dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00).
   (C)   Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation
of any provision of this section
1-11-17 to the local enforcement authorities, the state's attorney or any other
law enforcement official may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal
institution other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than three
hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined in an amount not less than one
thousand one dollars ($1,001.00), and not to exceed five thousand dollars
($5,000.00).
   (D)   A violation of section
1-11-17-3 of this chapter shall be prosecuted as a criminal offense by an
attorney for the city by filing in the circuit court any information, or sworn
complaint, charging such offense. The prosecution shall be under and conform to
the rules of criminal procedure. Conviction shall require the establishment of
the guilt of the defendant beyond a reasonable doubt.
A violation of section
1-11-17-3 of this chapter may be prosecuted as a quasi-criminal offense by an
attorney for the city.
   (E)   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of section
1-11-17-2 or section
1-11-17-3 of this chapter is subject to discipline or discharge. (Ord. 0-16-04,
5-17-2004)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Board Of Fire And Police Commissioners   1
Reserved   2
Environmental Committee   3
Economic Development Committee
(Rep. by Ord. O-02-25, 1-20-2025)   4
Planning And Zoning Commission   5
Citizen Of The Year Committee   6
Reserved   7
CHAPTER 1
BOARD OF FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Creation; Membership
2-1-2: Qualifications; Oath; Bond; Removal
2-1-3: Duties
2-1-4: Reports
2-1-1: CREATION; MEMBERSHIP:
There is hereby established a Board of Fire and Police Commissioners, as
provided by law 1 . Said Board shall consist of three (3) members whose terms
of office shall be three (3) years and until their respective successors are
appointed and have qualified. (Ord. 0-17-70, 7-13-1970; amd. 1978 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-1 et seq.
2-1-2: QUALIFICATIONS; OATH; BOND; REMOVAL:
Each member of the Board shall possess the qualifications required of other
officers of the City and those specific qualifications required by statute of
members of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners, shall take oath, or
affirmation of office, give bond, and shall be subject to removal from office
in the manner provided by law. (Ord. 0-17-70, 7-13-1970; amd. 1978 Code)
2-1-3: DUTIES:
The Board of Fire and Police Commissioners shall appoint all officers and
members of the Fire and Police Departments of the Municipality except the Chief
of Police and the Chief of the Fire Department who shall be appointed by the
Mayor, and shall carry out such other duties as may be assigned to them by
ordinance. All appointments to each department other than that of the lowest
rank, however, shall be from the rank next below that to which the appointment
is made. The Board shall, if requested by the Mayor, screen and test applicants
for Chief of Police in the same manner as applicants for the police force and
shall report on the results thereof and the permanent rank which will be given
to each applicant.
Except as otherwise authorized by the City Council in the exercise of its home
rule authority, the Fire and Police Commissioners shall hereafter perform and
strictly carry out all of the terms and provisions contained in the Board of
Fire and Police Commissioners Act which are made a part of this Chapter to the
same extent as if set forth herein. (Ord. 0-17-70, 7-13-1970; amd. 1978 Code;
Ord. O-19-25, 4-7-2025)
2-1-4: REPORTS:
The Board shall make an annual report to the Mayor on the activities of the
Board. (Ord. 0-17-70, 7-13-1970; amd. 1978 Code)
CHAPTER 2
RESERVED
(Ord. 0-16-15, 5-18-2015)
CHAPTER 3
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-3-1: Creation, Title; Members
2-3-2: Terms
2-3-3: Compensation
2-3-4: Chairman
2-3-5: Meetings
2-3-6: Purpose
2-3-7: Powers And Duties
2-3-1: CREATION, TITLE; MEMBERS:
There is hereby established the environmental committee to consist of seven (7)
members appointed by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the city
council. Its members shall be residents of the city. The mayor will designate
an employee of the city to serve as liaison between the committee and the city.
(Ord. 0-55-07, 12-17-2007)
2-3-2: TERMS:
Each committee member will serve a term of two (2) years. (Ord. 0-55-07, 12-17-
2007)
2-3-3: COMPENSATION:
Members of the committee shall serve without compensation. (Ord. 0-55-07, 12-
17-2007)
2-3-4: CHAIRMAN:
A chairman, who shall be elected by the majority of committee members, shall
serve a term of two (2) years. (Ord. 0-55-07, 12-17-2007)
2-3-5: MEETINGS:
Committee meetings shall be public, and held at least once each quarter on a
date designated by the chairman, at the advertised meeting place as posted, in
accordance with statute. Special meetings may be called by the chairman, as he
deems necessary or by a simple majority of the existing committee members upon
written request to the chairman. In all such cases forty eight (48) hour notice
shall be given to each member of the committee.
A simple majority of the existing committee members shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of official business. (Ord. 0-55-07, 12-17-2007)
2-3-6: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the environmental committee is as follows:
   (A)   To enhance the environmental awareness of the residents of the city.
   (B)   To recommend to the mayor and city council programs and initiatives
geared towards enhancing environmental awareness within the city.
   (C)   To recommend to the mayor and city council programs and initiatives
which would enhance the city's responsiveness to the environmental issues.
   (D)   To cooperate with and utilize to the fullest extent all applicable
environmental resources of the city, county of DuPage, state of Illinois, the
United States, other municipalities and other regional environmental
authorities.
   (E)   To respond to requests from the mayor and city council.
   (F)   To support and sponsor activities aimed at improving the quality of
the environment within the city.
   (G)   To serve as the tree board and to develop and manage a comprehensive
tree program. (Ord. 0-55-07, 12-17-2007)
2-3-7: POWERS AND DUTIES:
To raise the environmental awareness of the residents of the city through
education and to improve the environmental quality of life in Darien. The
committee shall also:
   (A)   Make recommendations to the mayor and city council for the adoption of
ordinances, resolutions and recommendations concerning city, county, state and
national environmental issues.
   (B)   Identify specific issues and practices concerning the environment in
the city and make recommendations to the mayor and city council for
improvements.
   (C)   In order to assist in the performance of its functions, create such
subcommittees as it deems needed, proper appointment thereto being made by the
chairman.
   (D)   Submit to the mayor and city council reports from time to time deemed
by the committee to be necessary.
   (E)   Respond to requests from the mayor and/or city council.
   (F)   Write and implement an annual community forestry work plan. (Ord. 0-
55-07, 12-17-2007)
CHAPTER 4
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
(Rep. by Ord. O-02-25, 1-20-2025)
CHAPTER 5
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-5-1: Creation
2-5-2: Statutory Functions
2-5-3: Jurisdiction
2-5-4: Meetings And Rules
2-5-1: CREATION:
There is hereby created a commission for the city of Darien to be known as the
planning and zoning commission. Hereinafter the word "commission" shall mean
the planning and zoning commission. The commission shall consist of nine (9)
members appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city council,
and a member of the city council shall be an ex officio member thereof, without
power to vote. Members of the commission shall serve without compensation. A
maximum of two (2) members may be from without the city but within the planning
jurisdiction of the city as provided by statute. The nine (9) members shall
serve for five (5) year terms ending January 18 of the year of termination. The
membership of the commission established under the previous plan commission
ordinance, ordinance 0-31-78, adopted July 17, 1978, shall continue in office
until the conclusion of their terms of office. Annually, one of the members of
the commission shall be designated as chairperson by the mayor with the advice
and consent of the city council. Vacancies upon the commission shall be filled
for the unexpired term of the members whose place has become vacant in the
manner herein provided for the appointment of such a member. Members may be
removed for cause by the mayor and the city council upon written charges and
after public hearing. (Ord. 0-35-02, 10-7-2002, eff. 11-1-2002)
2-5-2: STATUTORY FUNCTIONS:
The planning and zoning commission shall be responsible for all matters
assigned to it by the mayor and city council pursuant to this code, the Darien
zoning ordinance or any special direction. In those instances where the
planning and zoning commission is deciding matters pursuant to specific
statutory authority, two (2) of the nine (9) members of the commission shall
recuse themselves in such a manner as the commission determines, so that such
matter is being decided by a commission of seven (7). (Ord. 0-35-02, 10-7-2002,
eff. 11-1-2002)
2-5-3: JURISDICTION:
The planning and zoning commission shall discharge the following duties:
   (A)   Review all applications for amendments to the zoning ordinance (text
or map) and for special uses, hold public hearings thereon, and report its
findings and recommendations to the city council;
   (B)   Initiate, direct and review, from time to time, studies of the
provisions of the zoning ordinance, and to make reports of its recommendations
relative to proposed amendments to the city council;
   (C)   Initiate, review and make recommendations to the city council
regarding amendments to the comprehensive plan and the official map;
   (D)   Review and make recommendations to the city council regarding proposed
plats of subdivisions within the territorial jurisdiction of the city;
   (E)   Act on all other matters which are referred to it, from time to time
or as required by the provisions of the zoning ordinance;
   (F)   Perform all matters previously performed by either the Darien plan
commission or the Darien Planning Commission pursuant to the Darien zoning
ordinance; and
   (G)   Keep all records of its meetings, hearings, findings, recommendations
and reports. (Ord. 0-35-02, 10-7-2002, eff. 11-1-2002; amd. Ord. O-01-25, 1-20-
2025)
2-5-4: MEETINGS AND RULES:
The planning and zoning commission shall meet on the first and third Wednesday
of each month. All other meetings of the commission shall be held at the call
of the chairperson or any three (3) members of the commission and at such other
times as the commission may determine. All hearings conducted by said
commission shall be open to the public and shall be announced as provided by
law. Any person may appear and testify at a hearing either in person or by his/
her duly authorized agent or attorney. The chairperson or, in his/her absence,
the acting chairperson shall have the power to administer oaths and compel
attendance of witnesses. The planning and zoning commission shall keep minutes
of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if
absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall also keep records of
its hearings and other official actions. No hearing shall be conducted without
a quorum of the commission being present. A quorum shall consist of a majority
of all members then in office. However, fewer than the number of members
necessary to establish a quorum may recess a meeting to another specific date
and time. No final action shall be taken on any measure before it except with
the concurrence of a majority of the members then in office. A copy of every
rule or regulation, every amendment and special use, and every recommendation,
order, requirement, decision, or determination of the planning and zoning
commission shall be filed immediately in the office of the city clerk and shall
be a public record. The commission may adopt its own rules and procedures, not
in conflict with this chapter, the Darien zoning ordinance, or with the
applicable Illinois statutes. The members of the commission shall elect an
acting chairperson who shall serve in the absence of the chairperson and may
select or appoint such persons authorized to be employed by the city council
who shall be deemed necessary for the proper discharge of the powers and duties
conferred upon the planning and zoning commission under this chapter and the
proper administration of the zoning ordinance. (Ord. 0-35-02, 10-7-2002, eff.
11-1-2002)
CHAPTER 6
CITIZEN OF THE YEAR COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-6-1: Creation
2-6-2: Budget
2-6-3: Duties And Responsibilities
2-6-4: Criteria
2-6-5: Complimentary Tickets
2-6-6: Disbanding
2-6-1: CREATION:
There is hereby created a citizen of the year committee. The committee shall
consist of no less than five (5) and no more than nine (9) individuals. The
committee shall be appointed annually by the mayor on or before the last
regular meeting of September, subject to advice and consent of the city
council. The mayor shall designate a member of the city council to serve as
liaison with the committee. In addition, the city administrator shall designate
a staff person to provide support and assistance to the committee. (Ord. 0-07-
01, 2-20-2001)
2-6-2: BUDGET:
The city council shall advise the committee by the last Monday in October of
the funds available in the city budget for use by the committee. (Ord. 0-50-92,
9-8-1992)
2-6-3: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The committee's duties and responsibilities are as follows: (Ord. 0-07-01, 2-
20-2001)
   (A)   The committee shall select a Darien citizen of the year in accordance
with the criteria set forth in section
2-6-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 0-50-92, 9-8-1992)
   (B)   The committee shall, on or before the first council meeting in
November, provide the council with a schedule of dates and activities for the
coming year's citizen of the year celebration.
   (C)   Prior to disbanding after the selection of a citizen of the year, the
committee shall establish the date for the following year's citizen of the year
celebration and reserve appropriate banquet facility and entertainment by
obtaining contracts for each, subject to council approval. (Ord. 0-07-01, 2-20-
2001)
2-6-4: CRITERIA:
The committee shall follow the following criteria in recommending the citizen
of the year:
   (A)   The citizen of the year shall have made some outstanding voluntary
contribution to the city. Criteria to be considered shall include: 1) diversity
of activities; 2) length of service; 3) degree of involvement in the community;
and 4) impact to the city.
   (B)   The committee shall not discriminate as to age, sex, color, creed, or
national origin in making their selection of the citizen of the year.
   (C)   The citizen of the year must be a resident of Darien.
   (D)   No one shall be selected for the citizen of the year honor more than
once.
   (E)   The citizen of the year shall not presently hold a paid or elected
position within the city government. (Ord. 0-50-92, 9-8-1992)
   (F)   Candidates for citizen of the year shall be submitted in writing via a
nomination letter or form sent to the committee for their consideration. Once a
letter or form has been submitted, the candidate's name shall always be a valid
nomination. Resubmittal of candidate letters or forms is encouraged to keep
information current and accurate. (Ord. 0-20-94, 4-18-1994)
   (G)   All nomination letters and supporting material received each year
shall be maintained by the committee and turned over to the city clerk's office
following the selection of the citizen of the year. The city clerk shall
maintain an historical file of this information. (Ord. 0-50-92, 9-8-1992)
2-6-5: COMPLIMENTARY TICKETS:
The committee shall provide complimentary tickets for the annual citizen of the
year's dinner dance, to the following: (Ord. 0-07-01, 2-20-2001)
   (A)   The selected citizen of the year and his or her immediate family
residing in the citizen of the year's household.
   (B)   All prior citizens of the year shall be provided one complimentary
ticket.
   (C)   All committee members shall receive one complimentary ticket.
   (D)   A member of the clergy selected by the citizen of the year shall be
provided one complimentary ticket.
   (E)   The mayor shall be provided two (2) complimentary tickets. (Ord. 0-50-
92, 9-8-1992)
2-6-6: DISBANDING:
Following the completion of their duties and responsibilities as set forth
hereinabove, the committee shall disband. (Ord. 0-50-92, 9-8-1992)
CHAPTER 7
RESERVED
(Ord. 0-16-15, 5-18-2015)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Business Licenses And Permits   1
Peddlers And Solicitors   2
Liquor Control Regulations   3
Municipal Taxation   4
Raffle Licenses   5
Garage Sales   6
Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax   7
Massage Businesses And Services   8
Drive-Through Eating Establishments   9
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSES AND PERMITS
SECTION:
3-1-1: License Required; Subjects Of Licensing Authority
3-1-2: Applications
3-1-3: Investigation
3-1-4: Approval; Disapproval
3-1-5: License Term; Expiration; Renewal; Late Fee; Other Licenses
3-1-6: Licenses Not Assignable; Unlawful Use
3-1-7: Building And Premises
3-1-8: Location
3-1-9: Nuisances Prohibited
3-1-10: Working Conditions
3-1-11: Business Open To Public
3-1-12: Inspections
3-1-13: License To Be Posted; Destruction, Removal Of License
3-1-14: Business Vehicles
3-1-15: More Than One License Required
3-1-16: License Fee, Schedule
3-1-17: Suspension, Revocation Of License Or Permit
3-1-18: Appeal
3-1-19: Adoption By Reference
3-1-20: Additional Licensing Regulations
3-1-21: Certificate Of Compliance Requirements
3-1-22: Penalty; Enforcement
3-1-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; SUBJECTS OF LICENSING AUTHORITY:
No person shall conduct, engage in, maintain, operate, carry on or manage any
business, occupation, activity or establishment, by himself or through an
agent, employee or partner, for which a license is required by this Code or by
any Municipal ordinance, without first having obtained a license for such
business, occupation, activity or establishment.
Whenever a license or permit is required for the maintenance, operation or
conduct of any business or establishment, or for doing business or engaging in
any activity or occupation, any person shall be subject to the requirement, if,
by himself, or through an agent, employee or partner, he is held forth as being
engaged in the business, activity or occupation, or if he solicits patronage
therefor, actively or passively, or if he performs or attempts to perform any
part of such business, activity, or occupation in the Municipality. (Ord. 0-12-
92, 2-18-1992)
3-1-2: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for all new licenses and permits shall be made to the Municipal
Clerk in writing on a form provided for that purpose, except as otherwise
provided. Where no changed circumstances shall require the filing of a new or
amended application, the City may send a renewal form to the applicant on an
annual basis.
If the applicant is an individual (sole proprietorship), the application shall
contain his name, residence address and residential telephone number. If the
applicant is a partnership or other noncorporate business entity, the
application shall contain the name and residential address and residential
telephone number of each partner, principal or member thereof. If the applicant
is a corporation, the application shall contain the name, residential address
and residential telephone number of each principal officer and the registered
agent thereof.
Each application also shall contain: a) a designation of the type or kind of
license or permit desired, b) the location or proposed location of the place of
business, occupation or activity, c) the applicable fee to be paid as provided
in Section
3-1-16 of this Chapter, d) the number of certificates of registration required
under the Retailer's Occupation Tax Act, Service Occupation Tax Act, and/or Use
Tax, if applicable, and e) such additional information as may be needed for the
proper guidance of Municipal officials in the evaluation of such application,
including proof of any insurance policy or bond required by this Code. (Ord. 0-
12-92, 2-18-1992)
3-1-3: INVESTIGATION:
   (A)   Where this Code authorizes or necessitates an investigation or
inspection by any department or official of the Municipality before the
issuance of a license, and requires the approval by such department or official
regarding the proper location or condition of the premises in which the
business, occupation or activity for which a license is applied is to be
managed, conducted, operated or carried on, or regarding the condition and
nature of the equipment and methods intended to be used by the applicant in
such business, occupation or activity, then the Clerk shall transmit to the
appropriate official or department such information necessary for the required
investigation or inspection. Investigations or inspections may be conducted by
any officer, employee or independent contractor of the City or personnel of any
other governmental agency.
   (B)   The designated official or department: 1) shall make all necessary
investigations and inspections, and the results thereof shall be reported in
writing to the Clerk; and 2) shall indicate on the application a recommendation
for the approval or disapproval thereof.
   (C)   Upon receipt of all related investigative and inspection reports, the
Clerk shall forward such reports, together with the application, to the Mayor
for final determination. (Ord. 0-12-92, 2-18-1992)
3-1-4: APPROVAL; DISAPPROVAL:
   (A)   If, after due consideration of the information contained within the
application and related investigative and inspection reports, the Mayor shall
determine that the application is satisfactory, he shall approve the
application. Thereupon, the Municipal Clerk shall notify the applicant that the
application has been approved. The license or permit shall be signed by the
Mayor, attested by the Clerk, and then issued to the licensee.
   (B)   If, after due consideration of the information contained within the
application and related investigative and inspection reports, the Mayor shall
determine that matters concerning the application are unsatisfactory, he shall
disapprove the application, indicating the reasons therefor. Thereupon, the
Clerk shall notify the applicant that the application has not been approved and
that no license or permit will be issued. (Ord. 0-12-92, 2-18-1992)
3-1-5: LICENSE TERM; EXPIRATION; RENEWAL; LATE FEE; OTHER LICENSES:
   (A)   Each license shall indicate its term. All annual licenses shall be
operative and the license year for the Municipality shall commence on May 1 of
each year. No license shall be granted for a period longer than one year.
Except where otherwise provided herein, every license shall expire on April 30
following the date of issuance.
   (B)   The Clerk shall endeavor to notify each annual licensee of the
expiration of time of the license held by the licensee at least twenty one (21)
days prior to such expiration date. Provided, however, that a failure to make
such notification or the licensee's failure to receive it, shall not exclude
the licensee from the obligation to obtain a new license or a renewal.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided herein, each license may be renewed upon
payment of the required fee. The requirements and procedures for granting and
issuing a license renewal shall be the same as the requirements and procedures
for granting a new license, with the exception of filling out another
application. (1978 Code)
   (D)   Each licensee shall pay the following late charge in the event the
license is not obtained or renewed on or before April 30:
      1.   Thirty (30) days or less late, twenty five percent (25%) of annual
license fee.
      2.   More than thirty (30) days late, fifty percent (50%) of annual
license fee. (Ord. 0-14-99, 8-2-1999)
   (E)   No license shall issue unless licensee demonstrates that he has
obtained all necessary State and Federal licenses relating to the business
proposed to be conducted. Suspension or revocation of any required State or
local license shall be cause for suspension and/or revocation of City license.
   (F)   Whenever a person obtains a license after November 1, such person
shall pay one-half (1/2) of the annual license fee. There shall be no license
refunds when a person discontinues a licensed business within the City. (Ord.
0-12-92, 2-18-1992)
3-1-6: LICENSES NOT ASSIGNABLE; UNLAWFUL USE:
   (A)   No license or permit may be assigned, sold, loaned, transferred, used
as collateral or otherwise encumbered. No person shall use or display any
license certificate, tag, badge, or sticker which has been improperly acquired.
   (B)   No person shall alter, deface, forge, or counterfeit any license,
certificate, plate, tag, badge or sticker issued by the Municipality. (1978
Code)
3-1-7: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no permit shall
be issued for any purpose or activity if the premises and building to be used
for the purpose do not fully comply with all applicable ordinances and
regulations of the Municipality and the State. (1978 Code)
3-1-8: LOCATION:
   (A)   No license or permit for the operation of a business, establishment or
activity in the Municipality shall be construed to permit its operation in more
than one location in the Municipality; a separate license or permit shall be
required for each location. For the purpose of this Code, the existence of a
single location shall be evidenced by the fact that all buildings containing
the principal or accessory uses: 1) shall be connected or shall be located on
the same lot or parcel, 2) shall be operated and managed by the same person or
owner, and 3) shall be an establishment with the same classification.
   (B)   The location of any licensed business or occupation, other than the
sale of alcoholic liquors, or the location of any permitted act, may be changed
provided that the Clerk's office shall be given sufficient notice of such
intended change in location to determine that the operation for which the
license is required conforms with all applicable ordinances and regulations of
the Municipality at its new location. (1978 Code)
3-1-9: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
   (A)   General Regulations: No business or establishment, whether or not
licensed, shall be so conducted or operated as to constitute a nuisance in
fact; and no building, vehicle, structure, yard, lot, premises, or part
thereof, shall be used, kept, maintained, or operated in connection with any
business or establishment so as to occasion any nuisance, or so as to be
dangerous to life or detrimental to health. Any charge of conducting or
operating a nuisance may be made under this Chapter or under the provisions of
this Code prohibiting nuisances generally 1 .
   (B)   Unsafe Or Unhealthful Business:
      1.   No building or structure, utilized, constructed, or maintained in
connection with any business or occupation, shall evidence an unsanitary,
unsafe, or dangerous condition.
      2.   No substance, matter, or thing of any kind whatever, which shall be
dangerous or detrimental to health, shall be allowed to exist in connection
with any business or occupation, or be used in any work or labor performed in
the Municipality.
   (C)   Refuse Disposal 2 :
      1.   Refuse Containers: The standard refuse container required by this
Code shall be a receptacle of not less than twenty (20) gallons' capacity, or
impervious material and sturdy construction, with a tight fitting cover, and
equipped with handles properly placed to facilitate handling.
      2.   Duty To Provide Refuse Containers: The occupant of every building,
structure, or premises used or maintained in connection with any business or
occupation shall provide and maintain in good condition and repair a sufficient
number of refuse containers for the temporary storage of all refuse
accumulating between collections.
   All refuse which is placed for collection service outside any building or
structure must be kept in standard refuse containers unless another type of
container is approved by the Clerk due to the unusual nature of the refuse
produced by the business.
      3.   Refuse Removal: It shall be the duty of the occupant of every
building, structure, or premises used or maintained in connection with any
business or occupation to cause to be removed at his own cost and expense at
least once each week all refuse produced therein.
      4.   Removal Of Refuse By Some Businesses Or Occupations: Every person
owning or controlling any hotel, restaurant, cafe, retail food establishment or
other business or occupation where more than thirty two (32) gallons of refuse
is normally produced weekly shall cause all substances deposited in such
containers to be removed as often as shall be necessary including daily removal
from his premises to ensure the healthful environment surrounding such
establishment. Such removal shall be at his own expense. (1978 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Title 7, Chapter 3 of this Code.
2 2. See also Title 7, Chapter 1 of this Code.
3-1-10: WORKING CONDITIONS:
   (A)   Health Requirements: No owner, lessee, manager, or superintendent of
any store, factory, workshop, or other place shall allow or cause any room or
part thereof, to be overcrowded or inadequate or faulty in respect to light,
ventilation, heat or cleanliness.
   (B)   Sanitation: All such places of employment shall be kept in a clean
condition, free from the effluvia of a sewer, drain, privy, stable, or other
nuisance; also as far as practicable, such premises shall be free from all
gases, vapors, dust, or otherwise which are injurious to health. Sufficient
washroom facilities for all employees shall be provided and such facilities
shall be properly ventilated.
   (C)   Heat Required: It shall be the duty of every person owning or
controlling the heating plant which furnishes heat to any factory, workshop,
retail business or other commercial establishment, to maintain a temperature
when workers are present within such factory or workshop of not less than sixty
eight degrees Fahrenheit (68°F) or twenty degrees Celsius (20°C) without such
undue restriction of ventilation as to interfere with proper sanitary
conditions therein; provided, however, that this requirement shall not apply to
any factory or workshop where the business conducted therein is of such a
nature that a lower temperature than sixty eight degrees Fahrenheit (68°F) or
twenty degrees Celsius (20°C) is necessary or expedient for the work or
manufacturing process of such business.
   (D)   Inspection: The appropriate municipal officials shall visit or cause
to be visited all such places of employment in the municipality as often as
they shall deem necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of this
section, and to have such arrangements made as may be deemed necessary for the
health and safety of the employees. (1978 Code)
3-1-11: BUSINESS OPEN TO PUBLIC:
All businesses or commercial establishments licensed under this chapter which
invite the public generally into their establishments for the purpose of
conducting business, commercial activity or any other activity licensed under
this chapter shall be subject to the following regulations in addition to all
other applicable provisions of this code:
   (A)   All areas within the licensed premises where the public may enter
shall be kept in a safe and sanitary condition.
   (B)   All business or commercial establishments subject to this section
shall refrain from all deceptive trade practices as defined by state or federal
law or regulation and shall comply with all applicable laws and regulations
regarding consumer protection and deceptive trade practices. In the event of
any such violation, the business license of the establishment may be revoked
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises open to the public or
engaged in the transportation, processing, preparation or packaging of food or
beverages any person who the employer knew or should have known based upon
reasonable observation was afflicted with, or who is a carrier of, any
contagious or infectious disease; and it shall be unlawful for any person who
knew or should have known that he was afflicted with or a carrier of any such
disease to work in or about any such premises. (1978 Code)
   (D)   All business and commercial establishments subject to this section
shall enforce and comply with the smoke free Illinois act, 410 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 82/1 et seq. ("act"). Additionally, no licensee, his/her
manager, agent or employee shall permit or suffer to maintain on the licensed
premises any person who is smoking in or about the premises in violation of the
act. (Ord. 0-52-07, 12-17-2007, eff. 1-1-2008)
3-1-12: INSPECTIONS:
   (A)   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with
the operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required
by ordinance, or are reasonably necessary to assure compliance with the
provisions of any ordinance or regulation of the municipality, or to detect
violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee or the person in
charge of the premises to admit thereto for the purpose of making the
inspection any officer or employee of the municipality who is duly authorized
to make such inspection at any reasonable time that such admission or entry is
requested.
   (B)   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of any ordinance or
regulation, or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the
licensee or the person in charge of the premises to give to any duly authorized
officer or employee of the municipality requesting the same sufficient samples
of such material or commodity for such analysis upon official request.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the mayor may
revoke under the provisions of this code the license of any owner or operator
of a licensed business in the municipality who refuses to permit any duly
authorized officer or employee to make such inspection or to take an adequate
sample of said commodity, or who interferes with such officer or employee while
in the performance of his duties. (1978 Code)
3-1-13: LICENSE TO BE POSTED; DESTRUCTION, REMOVAL OF LICENSE:
   (A)   It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in
the municipality to keep his license in a prominent place on the premises,
machine or vehicle used for such business at all times.
   (B)   No person shall destroy, obliterate, take, remove or carry away
without the consent of the owner any license, certificate, plate or sticker
which has been issued by the municipality except that such license,
certificate, plate or sticker has been discontinued or the licensed premises
have been abandoned. Nothing herein shall prevent the mayor or his duly
authorized representative from removing any license, certificate, plate or
sticker from the possession of a former licensee, his premises, any vehicle or
any machine when said license has been revoked under the provisions of this
code. (1978 Code)
3-1-14: BUSINESS VEHICLES:
   (A)   Whenever the number of vehicles used is the basis, in whole or in
part, for a license fee, the clerk shall furnish the licensee with a tag or
sticker for each vehicle covered by the license, and such tag or sticker shall
be posted or affixed in a conspicuous place on each such vehicle.
   (B)   Whenever any licensee under this chapter shall make use of one or more
motor vehicles in the licensed activity, such licensee shall carry at all times
public liability insurance with a responsive insurer qualified to do business
in Illinois, to secure payment of loss or damage resulting from an occurrence
arising out of or caused by the operation or use of any such vehicles, but each
one shall be insured for the sum of at least five thousand dollars ($5,000.00)
for property damage and the amount of at least fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) for injuries to or death of any one person, and for the sum of at
least one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for injuries to or death of
more than one person, in any one accident. Every insurance policy or contract
for such insurance, shall provide for the payment and satisfaction of any final
judgment rendered against the owner, or any person driving any insured vehicle;
and that suit may be brought in any court of competent jurisdiction upon such
policy or contract by any person having claims arising from the operation or
use of such vehicles; it shall contain a description of each vehicle insured,
manufacturer's name and serial number, the state license number and the
municipal license number. (1978 Code)
3-1-15: MORE THAN ONE LICENSE REQUIRED:
Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, each individual business or
commercial activity within the municipality shall be required to obtain only
one license, but shall be required to comply with all applicable regulations
contained in this chapter or elsewhere in this code. The license fee required
to be paid by an individual business which is subject to two (2) or more
licenses in this chapter shall be the largest of those applicable. A business
shall be considered to be individual only if it is owned by identical persons
or entities, is contained within one single building, and conducts activities
which are closely related. (1978 Code)
3-1-16: LICENSE FEE, SCHEDULE:
   (A)   Except as provided hereinbelow, all retail and wholesale commercial
facilities, sales facilities, service businesses, manufacturing facilities and
all other businesses shall pay the following annual license fee based on the
square footage of the premises as determined by the city's building department
or through other reasonable means:
 
Square Feet             Amount
   0   -   5,00$ 50.00
   5,001   -   150.00
   10,001   -  180.000
   25,001   -  250.000
   50,001   -  350.0000
100,001 and over        500.00
 
For purposes of this section, "square footage" shall refer to the square
footage of the principal building area, storage area, and outdoor display area
of any facility. (Ord. 0-12-92, 2-18-1992)
   (B)   Businesses set forth hereinbelow shall pay the following license fees.
Except when specifically referenced, license term shall be one year. Licenses
marked with an asterisk shall be required of a business even though the
business may be the holder of one or more other city licenses.
Business License Fee
Business                                              License Fee
Advertisers outdoor                                   $ 150.00
Advertising bench                                     50.00
Amusements:
* 1. Billiard, pool, snooker or similar uses          25.00/table
2. Bowling alley                                      25.00/lane
3. Carnival or circus                                 200.00 (10 day)
* 4. Coin operated games of skill and musical devices 65.00/machine
* 5. Golf course                                      200.00
* 6. Miniature golf                                   150.00
7. Dance hall                                         300.00
8. Skating rink                                       300.00
9. Target range and shooting galleries                300.00
10. Theater and playhouse:
Up to 750 seats                                       1,000.00
Over 750 seats                                        1,500.00
11. Indoor movie theater:
Up to 750 seats                                       1,000.00
Over 750 seats                                        1,500.00
12. Outdoor movie theater                             2,000.00
13. Special events and contests not otherwise listed  50.00
Auctioneer, permanent                                 600.00
Auctioneer, transient                                 30.00/day +
                                                      5,000.00 bond (3 day)
* Automobile and truck towing/wrecking                70.00/truck
Automobile service stations                           150.00
Boarding houses                                       200.00
Bondsman                                              125.00
* Car wash, full service                              200.00
Car wash, self-service                                40.00/stall
* Cigar, cigarette and tobacco retail                 50.00
Contractors, building                                 60.00 +
                                                      10,000.00 bond
Contractors storage yard                              200.00
* Firearm sales/service                               250.00 +
                                                      25,000.00 bond
Flea markets                                          500.00
* Food mart
Garage or car parking (public)                        3.60/stall
Home occupations                                      40.00
House movers, raisers                                 60.00 + bldg.
Ice cream truck or cart                               75.00/truck
Itinerant merchant                                    50.00/truck
Junkyard                                              2,000.00 +
                                                      25,000.00 bond
Laundries/dry cleaning coin operated machines         50.00 +
                                                      2.50/machine
                                                      50.00 +
Liability/insurance and permit hydrogen or oxygen     30.00/truck +
                                                      25,000.00 bond
Motel, hotel or motor inn                             50.00 +
                                                      2.00/sl.room
* Other vending machines                              25.00/machine
* Restaurants/food service:
1. 1 - 50 seats                                       60.00
2. 51 - 100 seats                                     120.00
3. 101+ seats                                         180.00
* 4. Drive-in                                         75.00
5. Carryout                                           75.00
Scavenger/refuse hauler (see section
7-1-2 of this code)
Taxi, livery, public passenger                        50.00/vehicle
* Vending machine, cigar and cigarette                75.00/machine
Vendor and peddler (see section
3-2-6 of this title)
* Video gaming terminal                               25.00/machine
 
*Licenses marked with an asterisk (*) in this section shall be required of
persons carrying on business requiring such licenses even though such persons
may have one or more other licenses in the city.
(Ord. 0-12-92, 2-18-1992; amd. Ord. 0-12-95, 4-3-1995; Ord. 0-09-13, 3-4-2013)
3-1-17: SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT:
   (A)   When the conduct or operation of any business occupation, activity or
establishment, whether licensed or unlicensed, shall constitute a nuisance in
fact and a clear and present danger to the public health, safety or general
welfare, or where the holder of any license shall have refused to allow an
inspection of his premises or has refused to furnish a sample of his goods for
testing, or where any business or establishment open to the public is in
violation of the smoke free Illinois act, 410 Illinois Compiled Statutes 82/
1 et seq., or in violation of subsection
3-1-11(D) of this chapter, the mayor shall be authorized to summarily order the
cessation of business and the closing of the premises until the danger or
violation no longer exists, and the suspension of any license or permit for a
period not to exceed ten (10) days. (Ord. 0-52-07, 12-17-2007, eff. 1-1-2008)
   (B)   Within eight (8) days after a license or permit is suspended, the
mayor shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not the
license or permit should be revoked.
   (C)   Licenses and permits issued under the ordinances of the municipality,
unless otherwise provided, may be revoked by the mayor after notice and hearing
as provided in subsections (D) and (E) of this section for any of the following
causes:
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit.
      2.   Any violation by the licensee or permittee of ordinance provisions
relating to the license or permit, the subject matter of the license or permit
or the premises occupied.
      3.   Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or of a
misdemeanor where such conviction indicates their inability to operate a safe,
honest and legitimate business operation within the city.
      4.   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine, penalty or
charge owing to the city.
      5.   Refusal to permit an inspection or sampling, or any interference
with a duly authorized municipal officer or employee while in the reasonable
performance of his duties in making such inspections, as provided in section
3-1-12 of this chapter. (1978 Code)
      6.   Any violation of the smoke free Illinois act, 410 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 82/1 et seq., and/or subsection
3-1-11(D) of this chapter. (Ord. 0-52-07, 12-17-2007, eff. 1-1-2008)
Such revocation, if ordered, shall not preclude prosecution and imposition of
any other penalties provided for the violation of other applicable ordinances
of the municipality.
   (D)   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license or permit shall be
given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and
the time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be sent by certified mail
(return receipt requested) to the licensee or permittee at his last known
address at least five (5) days prior to the date set for the hearing. If the
licensee shall request a continuance in the date of the hearing, the ten (10)
day suspension shall be in effect until two (2) days after the final hearing
date.
   (E)   At the hearing, the municipal attorney shall present the complaint and
shall represent the municipality. The licensee or permittee shall be permitted
counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross examine
witnesses. The mayor shall preside and shall render the decision. (1978 Code)
3-1-18: APPEAL:
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the mayor in regard to the denial of an
application for a business license, as provided in this code, or in connection
with the revocation of a license or permit, or the closing of an establishment
dangerous to the public, as provided in this code, shall have the right to
appeal to the corporate authorities. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with
the clerk, within ten (10) days after notice of a denial of an application or a
revocation of a license or permit, a written statement under oath setting forth
specifically the grounds for appeal. The corporate authorities shall thereupon
set the time and place for a hearing on such appeal, and notice of such hearing
shall be given to the applicant or licensee or permittee in the same manner as
provided in section
3-1-17 of this chapter. The decision of the corporate authorities on such
appeal shall be final. (1978 Code)
3-1-19: ADOPTION BY REFERENCE:
Whenever within this chapter any regulation or public record as defined in 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-3-1 are adopted and incorporated by reference,
the manner of their adoption and incorporation shall have complied with the
provisions of the Illinois Compiled Statutes allowing such incorporation and
adoption. (1978 Code)
3-1-20: ADDITIONAL LICENSING REGULATIONS:
Additional licensing regulations for particular businesses are included in
other ordinances of the city which, because of their length, are not codified
within this code. Such additional regulations as may be in effect from time to
time must be read with this code for a complete statement of the city's
licensing regulations. (1978 Code)
3-1-21: CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Definition:
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE: Certificates issued by the city evidencing that a
premises or place of business has been found to be in compliance with all
applicable health and safety regulations of the city.
   (B)   Certificate Of Compliance Required: No premises or place of business
(as business is defined in this code and even though the city may not license a
particular business or businesses) shall operate within the city unless the
owner or proprietor of said business obtains an annual certificate of
compliance upon inspection by the city or its designated representative
evidencing that such premises conforms to the provisions of this chapter and
the other regulations of the city relating to health and safety of the
premises. For the purpose of this requirement, each unit in a multi-unit
building, wherein business activities are engaged, shall be considered a
separate premises requiring a certificate of compliance.
   (C)   Issuance: Upon receipt of a properly executed application for
certificate of compliance required by this section or other ordinances of the
city and the required fee, the city clerk shall issue a receipt to the
applicant and inform him that temporary permission is given to operate the
proposed business subject to the inspections specified in this section. A
statement to this effect shall be contained in the application.
The city clerk upon receipt of written notices of satisfactory inspection from
the officials and departments specified in this section shall issue a
certificate of compliance to the applicant.
   (D)   Applications And Contents: Each applicant for a certificate of
compliance required by this section or other ordinances of the city shall
properly execute the application form provided to him by the city clerk's
office, which applications shall contain minimal information as determined by
the city clerk.
   (E)   Administration: The administration of the provisions set forth in this
section shall fall under the direct supervision of the city clerk's office and
the city building department. The building official and/or such other officials
of the city as designated by him shall conduct all inspections necessary to
enforce this section.
   (F)   Certificate Of Compliance Fees: Each premises subject to the
provisions of this section shall pay an annual certificate of compliance fee of
fifty dollars ($50.00); however, those premises that are operating therein and
pay an annual city business license fee shall not be required to pay any fee
pursuant to the terms of this section. (Ord. 0-12-92, 2-18-1992)
3-1-22: PENALTY; ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   Unless otherwise expressly provided, any person convicted of violating
any provisions of this chapter shall be fined not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), except that the
third and all subsequent convictions within any twelve (12) month period shall
be deemed to be misdemeanors, and the person guilty thereof may be fined not
less than ten dollars ($10.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
and imprisoned for a period not exceeding six (6) months.
   (B)   Whenever a person shall neglect or refuse to procure any license
required by this code, or otherwise violates the terms of this chapter, the
mayor is authorized to cause appropriate legal action and proceedings to be
instituted to enforce the license requirement.
   (C)   The clerk shall take all necessary and appropriate action to compel
compliance with the regulatory provisions of this chapter. When necessary and
expedient, he may call upon the chief of police to assist in such enforcement,
and it shall be the duty of the chief of police to perform such enforcement
acts as may be required of him. All municipal employees duly authorized and
acting as license inspectors shall be conservators of the peace with police
powers for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this code and other
municipal ordinances relating to the licensing of business and occupations and
their regulations (1978 Code; amd. Ord. 0-12-92, 2-18-1992)
CHAPTER 2
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: License Required
3-2-3: Application For License
3-2-4: Noncommercial Soliciting And Soliciting For Charitable Purposes
3-2-5: Issuance And Denial Of License
3-2-6: License Fee
3-2-7: Policy On Peddling Or Soliciting
3-2-8: Notice Of Regulating Peddling Or Soliciting
3-2-9: Restrictions Applicable To All Soliciting And Peddling
3-2-10: Enforcement
3-2-11: Revocation Of License
3-2-12: Appeal Of License Denial Or Revocation
3-2-13: Penalties
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following terms, phrases and words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given in this Section, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this Chapter:
CHARITABLE PURPOSE: Any charitable, benevolent, philanthropic, patriotic or
eleemosynary purpose.
PEDDLER: A person who engages in peddling, including persons required to be
licensed pursuant to the Transient Merchant Act of 1987 1 .
PEDDLING: The sale, offering for sale, barter or exchange of any goods,
article, commodity or service of any kind, for immediate delivery, from other
than a fixed place of business or private property.
RESIDENCE: Shall mean and include every separate living unit occupied for
residential purposes by one or more persons, contained within any type of
building or structure, along with the yard or grounds upon which structure is
located.
SOLICITING OR SOLICITATION: Shall include both commercial soliciting and
noncommercial soliciting.
   (A)   "Commercial soliciting" or "solicitation" shall mean and include any
one or more of the following activities:
      1.   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase and future delivery of any
goods, article, commodity or service of any kind, character or description
whatsoever, from other than a fixed place of business on private property; or
project
      2.   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for applications or purchase
of insurance of any type, kind or character; or
      3.   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type of publication, or offering to sell such items
for immediate or future delivery.
   (B)   "Noncommercial soliciting" or "solicitation" shall mean and include
any one or more of the following activities:
      1.   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit
association, organization, corporation or project;
      2.   The seeking of support for political, charitable or other causes not
involving the solicitation of gifts or other contributions. (Ord. 0-27-91, 5-6-
1991; amd. Ord. 0-26-94, 7-18-1994)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 465/1 et. seq.
3-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Unless otherwise provided herein, it shall be unlawful for any person to engage
in peddling or soliciting within the City without first obtaining a license as
herein provided. Notwithstanding the fact that a group, organization or other
entity may have several peddlers or solicitors in the City at one time, a
separate application shall be filled out for each individual and each
individual shall be required to obtain a separate license. (Ord. 0-27-91, 5-6-
1991)
3-2-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   (A)   An application for a license shall be filed with the City Clerk no
less than fifteen (15) working days prior to the date on which the applicant
wishes to begin peddling or soliciting. The application shall be made under
oath upon a form provided by the City Clerk. Each original application shall be
completed by the individual applicant in full and shall set forth: (Ord. 0-50-
91, 7-15-1991)
      1.   The applicant's name, home address with zip code, social security
number, date of birth, sex and a physical description of the applicant.
      2.   The name, address and telephone number of the person, firm,
corporation, association or organization by whom the applicant is employed or
which the applicant represents, and the length of time of such employment or
representation.
      3.   A description of either the subject matter of the soliciting in
which applicant will engage or the goods, articles, commodities or services
that will be the subject of peddling or the soliciting of orders.
      4.   A statement as to whether the applicant desires to be licensed to
peddle from a vehicle, or from a pushcart, pack, basket or other receptacle to
be carried by the peddler.
      5.   The number and description of any vehicles to be used by the peddler
in peddling or soliciting, including the vehicle make, model year, model and
style, color and license number.
      6.   The period of time to be covered by the license being sought.
      7.   The date, or approximate date, of the latest previous application
for license under this Chapter or its predecessor.
      8.   Whether a license issued to the applicant under this Chapter, or its
predecessor, has ever been revoked.
      9.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a violation of any
of the provisions of this Chapter, its predecessor, or any ordinance of any
other Illinois municipality, or any Illinois statute, regulating soliciting or
peddling.
      10.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of the commission of
a felony under the laws of this State, or any other state, or under the Federal
laws of the United States.
      11.   Evidence that the applicant is authorized to solicit or peddle for
the organization represented. (Ord. 0-27-91, 5-6-1991)
      12.   Any application for a peddler's license for food vending shall be
accompanied by a current certificate of inspection from the DuPage County
Health Department. No such license shall be issued unless such certificate is
supplied. In addition, a certificate of inspection from Department of
Agriculture shall be submitted when any such food is beef, poultry, or pork. A
shellfish tag from the Illinois Department of Public Health shall be submitted
when any such food is seafood and such seafood is shellfish. (Ord. 0-26-94, 7-
18-1994)
   (B)   Any applicant subject to the Transient Merchant Act of 1987 shall also
submit a copy of his or its certificate of registration under the Retailers'
Occupation Tax Act.
   (C)   The applicant shall also submit such other information or
documentation as the City Clerk and/or Chief of Police may deem necessary to
determine the identity of the applicant or to process the application.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall cause to be kept in his or her office an accurate
record of every application received and acted upon, together with all other
information and data pertaining thereto and all licenses issued under the
provisions of this Chapter and of the denial of applications. Applications for
licenses shall be numbered consecutively in the order filed, and every license
issued shall be identified with the duplicate number of the application upon
which it was issued.
   (E)   No license for peddling or commercial soliciting shall be issued to
any individual under the age of fourteen (14). (Ord. 0-27-91, 5-6-1991; amd.
Ord. 0-26-94, 7-18-1994)
3-2-4: NONCOMMERCIAL SOLICITING AND SOLICITING FOR CHARITABLE PURPOSES:
   (A)   Except as provided in subsection (B) of this section, all persons
seeking to engage in noncommercial soliciting or soliciting for charitable
purposes shall register with the city clerk no less than fifteen (15) working
days prior to the date on which the soliciting is to occur. Said registration
shall include:
      1.   The furnishing of all information required under section
3-2-3 of this chapter.
      2.   The furnishing of proof of compliance with "an act to regulate
solicitation and collection of funds for charitable purposes, providing for
violations thereof, and making an appropriation therefor", 225 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 460/1 et seq.
   (B)   All persons engaged in noncommercial solicitation solely for the
seeking of support for political, charitable or other causes not involving the
solicitation of gifts or other contributions are exempt from any license or
registration requirement under section
3-2-2 of this chapter and subsection (A) of this section. (Ord. 0-23-03, 5-19-
2003)
3-2-5: ISSUANCE AND DENIAL OF LICENSE:
Upon receipt of a properly completed application, the city clerk shall submit
the completed application to the chief of police, who shall evaluate the
application no later than five (5) working days after the receipt of the
completed application by the clerk. The city clerk shall either issue a
license, or notify the applicant in writing that the application has been
denied. The license shall be denied if the applicant fails to comply with the
requirements of this chapter or with the requirements of any other provision of
this code which is applicable to the activities of the applicant. In addition,
no license shall be issued to any person who:
   (A)   Has been convicted of a felony under the laws of the state of Illinois
or any other state, or under the federal laws of the United States, within five
(5) years of the date of the application; or
   (B)   Has been convicted of a sex offense as defined in 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11, or any equivalent law of any state within five (5)
years of the date of the application; or
   (C)   Has been convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter or
its predecessors; or
   (D)   Whose license issued hereunder has previously been revoked as herein
provided; or
   (E)   Has been convicted of a violation of an ordinance of any other
Illinois municipality regulating peddling or soliciting; or
   (F)   Has been convicted of a violation of the transient merchant act of
1987; or
   (G)   Has been convicted of a violation of the solicitation for charity act;
or
   (H)   Has been convicted of any other crime involving fraud,
misrepresentation, unauthorized entry to property or moral turpitude.
In the event that the license is denied for failure to comply with the
requirements of this chapter, the city clerk shall immediately notify the
applicant in writing of the reasons for the denial. If said application is not
cured within ten (10) days after the date on which the city clerk denies the
issuance of said license, said application shall be null and void. (Ord. 0-26-
94, 7-18-1994)
3-2-6: LICENSE FEE:
The license fee for peddling and commercial soliciting shall be forty dollars
($40.00). Said license fee shall be paid prior to the issuance of any license.
Each license shall be valid for no more than thirty (30) days from the date of
issuance. The license fee shall be waived for persons engaged in noncommercial
soliciting or solicitation for charitable purposes. (Ord. 0-26-94, 7-18-1994)
3-2-7: POLICY ON PEDDLING OR SOLICITING:
It is hereby declared to be the policy of the corporate authorities of the city
that the occupant or occupants of the residences in the city shall make the
determination of whether peddlers or solicitors shall or shall not be invited
to their respective residences. (Ord. 0-27-91, 5-6-1991)
3-2-8: NOTICE OF REGULATING PEDDLING OR SOLICITING:
Every person desiring to secure the protection intended to be provided by the
regulations pertaining to peddling or soliciting contained in section
3-2-7 of this chapter shall give notice that the occupant refuses invitation to
peddlers and solicitors to the occupant's premises, said notice to be given in
the following manner:
   (A)   A weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four inches (3" x
4") in size, shall be exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the
residence, indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the
applicable words:
      NO PEDDLERS OR SOLICITORS INVITED.
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch (1/3") in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the city clerk to persons
requesting same at the cost thereof.
   (C)   Such card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
peddler or solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of
the information contained thereon. (Ord. 0-27-91, 5-6-1991)
3-2-9: RESTRICTIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL SOLICITING AND PEDDLING:
   (A)   It is hereby declared unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell or create any sound in any
other manner calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of such
residence, for the purpose of engaging in peddling or soliciting in defiance of
a notice posted at the residence in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   It is hereby declared unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to remain in any residence or upon any premises for the purpose of
engaging in peddling or soliciting after the occupant or owner of such
residence or premises has requested that the person leave such residence or
premises. (Ord. 0-27-91, 5-6-1991)
   (C)   It is hereby declared unlawful and a nuisance for any person who has
not made a prearranged appointment with the occupant, to go upon any premises
and ring the doorbell or create any sound in any other manner calculated to
attract the attention of the occupant of such residence, for the purpose of
engaging in peddling or soliciting after seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. and prior to
nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. of any weekday or Saturday or at any time on Sunday or
on a state or national holiday. (Ord. 0-44-12, 12-17-2012)
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person who engages in peddling or
solicitation to use any plan, scheme or ruse, or to make any statement which
indicates or implies that the purpose of such person's peddling or solicitation
is other than to obtain orders for or to make sales of goods or services.
   (E)   The license or registration of any peddler or solicitor shall be
displayed on the outer garment of the peddler or solicitor at all times while
the person is engaged in soliciting or peddling within the city.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person who engages in peddling or
soliciting to misrepresent the right of a buyer to rescind or cancel a sale
under the provisions of applicable laws.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person who engages in peddling or
soliciting to cheat, deceive or make fraudulent misrepresentations, whether
through himself or through an employee, while acting as a peddler or solicitor
within the city.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in peddling or soliciting
to interfere with vehicular, bicycle or pedestrian traffic on any public right
of way, or to display any goods, merchandise or wares on any city property or
right of way, or within one hundred feet (100') of the intersection of any
public right of way or driveway.
   (I)   Any person engaging in peddling or soliciting within the city thereby
gives his consent to inspection by the police department of his goods, wares
and merchandise as to sanitation and as to compliance with the kinds of goods,
wares or merchandise stated in the person's application for a license. (Ord. 0-
27-91, 5-6-1991)
   (J)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in peddling or
soliciting within five hundred feet (500') of the property line of any
elementary or secondary school. (Ord. 0-26-94, 7-18-1994)
3-2-10: ENFORCEMENT:
The police department, under the direction of the chief of police, shall have
the duty to enforce the provisions of this chapter, including the conducting of
all required inspections. (Ord. 0-27-91, 5-6-1991)
3-2-11: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   (A)   Any license issued under this chapter shall be subject to revocation
if either the person permitted to engage in peddling or solicitation or the
person or organization sponsoring, promoting or conducting the peddling or
solicitation:
      1.   Engages in any practice or conduct which is prohibited by this
chapter or which violates a condition of the license; or
      2.   Is convicted of a violation of any provisions of this chapter; or
      3.   Has made a false material statement in his/her application, or
otherwise becomes disqualified for the issuance of a license under the terms of
this chapter.
   (B)   In the event the city clerk or chief of police finds that any of the
above described grounds for revocation exist, the city clerk shall prepare a
written notice of the revocation, which shall specify the grounds for the
revocation and shall be signed by both the chief of police and the city clerk.
The notice of revocation shall be delivered to the holder of the license either
in person or by certified mail addressed to his or her residence address as set
forth in the application. The notice shall become effective immediately upon
its delivery. (Ord. 0-26-94, 7-18-1994)
3-2-12: APPEAL OF LICENSE DENIAL OR REVOCATION:
Denial or revocation of a peddling or solicitation license may be appealed in
accordance with section
3-1-18 of this title. (Ord. 0-26-94, 7-18-1994)
3-2-13: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation found guilty of violating any provision of this
chapter shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall
be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues. The license of any person found guilty of violating any provision of
this chapter shall be revoked. (Ord. 0-27-91, 5-6-1991)
CHAPTER 3
LIQUOR CONTROL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Purpose
3-3-2: Definitions
3-3-3: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
3-3-4: Licenses Required
3-3-5: Application For License
3-3-6: Restrictions On Licenses
3-3-7: Classification Of Licenses And Fees
3-3-7-1: Class A License
3-3-7-2: Class B License
3-3-7-3: Class C License
3-3-7-4: Class D License
3-3-7-5: Class E License
3-3-7-6: Class F License
3-3-7-7: Class G License
3-3-7-8: Class H License
3-3-7-9: Class I License
3-3-7-10: Class J License
3-3-7-11: Class K License
3-3-7-12: Class L License (Rep. by Ord. 0-37-12, 10-15-2012)
3-3-7-13: Class M License
3-3-7-14: Class N License
3-3-7-15: Class O License
3-3-7-16: Class P License
3-3-7-17: Class Q License
3-3-7-18: Payment Of Fees, Expiration Date
3-3-8: Conditions And Restrictions Of License
3-3-9: Incomplete Applications
3-3-10: Violation Of Retailers' Occupation Tax Act
3-3-11: Attire
3-3-12: Conduct Prohibited
3-3-13: Inspections
3-3-14: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
3-3-15: Premises Restrictions
3-3-16: Personnel Restrictions
3-3-17: Examination And Investigation Of Applicant
3-3-18: Employment Restrictions
3-3-19: Sales To Minors
3-3-20: Revocation Or Suspension Of Licenses And Fines
3-3-21: Assessment Of Costs Of Hearings
3-3-22: Forfeiture Of Fees
3-3-23: Copy Of Ordinance To Be Provided Licensees
3-3-24: Outdoor Sales And Consumption
3-3-25: Video Gaming Allowed; Fee; Signage
3-3-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted in order to protect the health, safety and welfare of
the people of the City and to provide standards for the sound and careful
control and regulation of sale and distribution of alcoholic liquor. (Ord. 0-
39-94, 9-19-1994)
3-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided in this section, words and phrases used
in this chapter shall be used in the sense given them in sections 5/1-3.01
through 5/1-3.29 of the Liquor Control Act ("Act"), 235 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1-3.01 through 5/1-3.29.
   (B)   The issuance of a Federal special tax stamp to a person shall serve as
prima facie evidence that the person is a "retailer of alcoholic liquor" as
described and defined in this chapter. (Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-1994)
3-3-3: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
   (A)   Mayor As Commissioner: The Mayor of the City shall be the Liquor
Control Commissioner ("Commissioner") of the City. The Mayor may appoint a
person or persons to assist him in the exercise of powers or performance of his
duties.
   (B)   Powers, Functions And Duties: The Commissioner shall have the
following powers, functions and duties:
      1.   To receive applications and subject to approval by ordinance of the
City Council, to issue licenses to retailers in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter and to suspend for not more than thirty (30) days or revoke for
cause such licenses upon the Commissioner's determination, upon notice after
hearing, that the licensee has violated any provision of this chapter or any
rule or regulation issued pursuant thereto.
      2.   To adopt such rules and regulations consistent with the provisions
of this chapter and the State Liquor Control Act as may be necessary to carry
on the functions and duties of the Commissioner.
      3.   To enter or authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at any
time upon the licensed premises to determine if any of the provisions of this
chapter, the State Liquor Control Act or rules and regulations duly adopted by
the City liquor control commissioner or the state liquor control commission
have been or are being violated, and at such time to examine said premises of
said licensee in connection therewith.
      4.   Have the right to examine, or cause to be examined, under oath, any
applicant for a license or for a renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom
notice of revocation or suspension has been served in the renewal thereof, or
any licensee upon whom notice of revocation or suspension has been served in
the manner hereinafter provided, and to examine or cause to be examined, the
books and records of any such applicant or licensee; to hear testimony and take
proof and to issue subpoenas which will be effective in any part of the state.
      5.   To investigate changes in this chapter and recommend changes to the
city council.
   (C)   Compensation: The city council is authorized to fix and pay
compensation to the commissioner and such deputies, assistants or employees as
are deemed necessary. (Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-1994)
3-3-4: LICENSES REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to, in any manner, sell directly or
indirectly, or offer for sale or make sale at retail in the city any alcoholic
liquor without having first obtained a license for each location, place or
premises where such person is located to sell the same. (Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-
1994)
3-3-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applications for all liquor licenses shall be made to the commissioner, in
writing, signed by the applicant, if an individual, or by a duly authorized
agent thereof if a corporation or partnership, verified by oath or affidavit,
and shall contain the following statements and information:
   (A)   The full name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a copartnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof; in the case of a corporation, the object for which
organized, the names, addresses, date of birth and place of birth of all
officers, directors, and all persons owning directly or beneficially more than
five percent (5%) of the stock of such corporation and the persons acting as
managers or assistant managers of the premises.
   (B)   The citizenship of the applicant, his date and place of birth, and if
a naturalized citizen, the time and place of his naturalization.
   (C)   The character of business of the applicant.
   (D)   The length of time said applicant has been in business of that
character or in the case of a corporation, the date when its charter was
issued.
   (E)   The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time
application is made.
   (F)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license. (Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-1994)
      1.   If a leased premises, a copy of the lease shall be provided and such
lease shall be for a term of sufficient length to encompass the period of the
license sought. (Ord. 0-06-95, 2-6-1995)
      2.   The name and address of the owner(s) of the premises, and if said
premises is held in trust, the names and addresses of all the owners of the
beneficial interest of the trust.
   (G)   A statement whether applicant has made application for a similar or
other license on the premises other than described in this application, and the
disposition of such application.
   (H)   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony or a
gambling offense and is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any
matter or thing contained in this chapter, the laws of this state, or the
ordinances of this city.
   (I)   Whether any liquor license by any state or subdivision thereof, or by
the federal government has been previously issued to the applicant, and if so,
where and when, and if such license has ever been suspended or revoked, the
reasons therefor.
   (J)   The date of formation of the partnership, if a partnership, the date
of incorporation, if an Illinois corporation, or the date of becoming qualified
under the Illinois business corporation act 1  to transact business in Illinois
if a foreign corporation.
   (K)   The number, the date of issuance and the date of expiration of the
applicant's current local retail liquor license.
   (L)   The date of the applicant's first request for a local liquor license
and whether it was granted, denied or withdrawn, and if denied or withdrawn the
reasons therefor.
   (M)   Whether the applicant is delinquent in the payment of the Retailer's
Occupational Tax, and if so, the reasons therefor.
   (N)   A statement that applicant has not received or borrowed money or
anything else of value, and that he will not receive or borrow money or
anything else of value (other than merchandising credit in the ordinary course
of business) directly or indirectly, from any manufacturer, importing
distributor or distributor or from any representative of any such manufacturer,
importing distributor or distributor, nor be a part in any way, directly or
indirectly, to any violation by a manufacturer, importing distributor or
distributor of the State Liquor Control Act, this Chapter or any other Federal,
State or local rules and regulations.
   (O)   If an application is made on behalf of a partnership, firm,
association, or corporation, then the same shall be signed by at least two (2)
members of such partnership or the president and secretary of such corporation
or two (2) authorized agents of said partnership or corporation.
   (P)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of the
State or of the United States, or any ordinance of the City in the conduct of
his place of business.
   All managers and assistant managers for all classes of licensed businesses
must file applications pursuant to this Section as if they were applicants for
individual licenses, must meet all pertinent licensing requirements of this
Chapter, and must be approved by the Commissioner. The application, approval
and qualification requirements for managers and assistant managers shall be
conditions attached to the license of the business employing them, and any
violations of those requirements can result in license penalties for the
licensed business, including suspension, revocation, or fines.
   The Commissioner may, within his or her discretion, require any applicant
for a new City liquor license, or any applicant for a renewal of a City liquor
license, to be fingerprinted whether said applicant be an individual or a
partnership. Should the applicant be a corporation, the Commissioner may,
within his or her discretion, require the following to be fingerprinted:
   The officers, manager or director thereof, or any stockholder or
stockholders owning in the aggregate of more than five percent (5%) of the
capital stock of said corporation.
   All such fingerprinting shall be done by the City Police Department. Said
fingerprints shall be submitted to the appropriate State and/or Federal
agencies for processing as available. The cost of fingerprinting shall be
recoverable from the applicant.
   The Commissioner shall issue a written acceptance or rejection of an
application within sixty (60) days of its receipt by the Commissioner or City
Clerk in his or her behalf; or shall notify an applicant of the reasons for
further time being necessary to complete the investigation or processing; or
shall schedule a hearing on such application as provided by section 5/4-5 of
the Act. (Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-1994)
 
Notes
1 1. 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq.
3-3-6: RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSES:
No license shall be issued to:
   (A)   A person who is not of a good moral character and reputation in the
community in which he resides.
   (B)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
   (C)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any Federal or State
Law.
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper of, or who is
keeping a house of ill fame, a brothel or gambling house.
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of pandering, or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency or morality.
   (F)   A person who, having obtained a liquor license, has had such license
revoked for cause.
   (G)   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any liquor
license issued, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
   (H)   A partnership, unless each of the members of such partnership shall be
qualified to obtain a license.
   (I)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the stock of
such corporation would not be eligible to receive a license under this chapter
for any reason other than citizenship.
   (J)   A corporation unless it is incorporated in Illinois or unless it is a
foreign corporation which is qualified under the Illinois Business Corporation
Act to transact business in the State of Illinois.
   (K)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager, or
assistant manager, or agent unless such manager or assistant manager or agent
possesses the same qualifications required of the licensee.
   (L)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of a Federal or State
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor or who
has forfeited his bond to appear in court to answer charges for any such
violation.
   (M)   A person who neither owns, nor has a lease on, for a full period for
which the license is to be issued, the premises for which the license is sought
to be issued.
   (N)   Any law enforcing public official, the Mayor or members of the City
Council or official or employee of the City.
   (O)   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee.
   (P)   Any person, firm or corporation not eligible for a State retail liquor
dealer's license.
   (Q)   Any applicant who fails to obtain a State liquor license.
   (R)   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as prescribed by
any of subsections (a)(3) through (a)(10) of paragraph 28-1 of, or as
proscribed by section 28-3 of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-1, 5/28-3, or
as proscribed by a statute replacing any of the aforesaid statutory provisions;
or any person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as proscribed by an
ordinance of the City.
   (S)   A person who has not yet attained the age of twenty one (21) years.
   (T)   A person to whom a Federal gaming device stamp or a Federal wagering
stamp has been issued by the Federal government for the current tax period.
(Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-1994)
   (U)   (Rep. by Ord. 0-18-09, 6-15-2009)
   (V)   Any premises from which alcoholic liquor is or may be sold at a drive-
through facility where the customer or purchaser can purchase or receive
delivery of alcoholic liquor without exiting the motor vehicle or without
entering such building or structure where alcoholic liquor is sold.
   (W)   No liquor license shall be issued to any person for premises upon
which theatrical or other live performances which include the types of conduct
enumerated in section
3-3-12 of this chapter shall constitute the entertainment offered to the
patrons thereof. This prohibition includes, but is not limited to, any
entertainment, fashion show or other presentation which may include any person
in a nude or seminude state, including, but not limited to, servers, hosts,
hostesses, dancers, singers, models or other performance artists, or role
playing interactions. (Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-1994)
3-3-7: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES AND FEES:
3-3-7-1: CLASS A LICENSE:
   (A)   A Class A license shall authorize sale at retail of alcoholic liquor
in the original package but not for consumption on the premises of sale.
Provided, however, that the Commissioner may authorize the licensed premises to
offer liquor samples without charge to invitees as part of a promotional or
advertising program. The granting of permission to give away such liquor
samples shall be within the sole discretion of the Commissioner who shall be
petitioned in writing to allow such a promotional or advertising activity at
least three (3) days prior to the date upon which such activity is proposed to
take place. It shall be unlawful for such an advertising or promotional
activity to take place without the prior permission of the Commissioner.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale at
retail any alcoholic liquor in the original package but not for consumption on
the premises of sale in the City between one minute past twelve o'clock (12:01)
A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
   (C)   The number of Class A licenses shall be ten (10).
   (D)   The annual fee for a Class A license shall be one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00). (Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-1994; amd. Ord. 0-12-16, 4-4-
2016; Ord. 0-03-17, 4-3-2017; Ord. 0-16-20, 8-3-2020; Ord. O-16-22, 8-1-2022)
3-3-7-2: CLASS B LICENSE:
   (A)   The Class B license shall authorize the sale at retail and serving of
alcoholic liquor at a banquet hall or similar facility (where the predominant
purpose of the premises is the holding of private or limited parties or events)
only for consumption on the premises of the sale, provided such sale and
serving is accessory to the main purpose of operating a banquet hall or similar
facility on the premises. (Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-1994)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale at
retail and it shall be unlawful to serve alcoholic liquor on the premises of
such facility in the City between two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock
(11:00) A.M., except on Sundays when it shall be unlawful for any person to
sell or offer for sale at retail and to serve alcoholic liquor on the premises
of sale in the City between two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00)
noon. The Commissioner may extend the hours for lawful sale and service of
alcoholic liquor on special occasions such as New Year's Eve. (Ord. 0-19-03, 4-
21-2003)
   (C)   The annual fee for a Class B license shall be two thousand dollars
($2,000.00).
   (D)   The number of Class B licenses shall be one (1). (Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-
1994)
3-3-7-3: CLASS C LICENSE:
   (A)   A Class C license shall authorize the sale at retail and serving of
alcoholic liquor for a country club (public/semipublic/private) only for
consumption on the premises of the sale, provided such sale and serving is
accessory to the main purpose of operating a country club on the premises.
Serving of alcoholic liquor at a counter or bar shall be allowed under a Class
C license to seated customers only. (Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-1994)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale at
retail and it shall be unlawful to serve alcoholic liquor in the City between
one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M., except on Sundays when
it shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail and to serve alcoholic
liquor in the City between one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M.
The Commissioner may extend the hours for lawful sale and service of alcoholic
liquor on special occasions such as New Year's Eve. (Ord. 0-24-14, 7-7-2014)
   (C)   The annual fee for a Class C license shall be two thousand dollars
($2,000.00).
   (D)   The number of Class C licenses shall be one (1).
   (E)   Live music shall be permitted. Such music may be provided by a band,
musical group or an individual playing an instrument. No person providing such
music shall be under the age of eighteen (18). Such music shall be for the
dancing or listening pleasure of patrons only. (Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-1994)
3-3-7-4: CLASS D LICENSE:
   (A)   A Class D license shall authorize the sale at retail and serving of
alcoholic liquor at a counter or bar and at tables, provided such operation is
carried on in conjunction with a restaurant operation serving a menu offering
complete meals. The bar service or service at tables where a full menu is not
available shall take place in a separate room from the full menu restaurant
operation.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale
alcoholic liquor in conjunction with a Class D liquor license between one
o’clock (1:00) A.M. and eleven o’clock (11:00) A.M., except on Saturdays and
Sundays when it shall be unlawful for anyone to sell or offer for sale
alcoholic liquor under a Class D liquor license between the hours of two
o’clock (2:00) A.M. and ten o’clock (10:00) A.M. The Commissioner may extend
the hours for lawful sale and service of alcoholic liquor on special occasions
such as New Year’s Eve.
   (C)   Live music shall be permitted. Such music may be provided by a band,
musical group or an individual playing an instrument. No person providing such
music shall be under the age of eighteen (18). Such music shall be for the
dancing or listening pleasure of patrons only.
   (D)   The number of Class D licenses shall be eleven (11).
   (E)   The annual fee for a Class D license shall be two thousand dollars
($2,000.00). (Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-1994; amd. Ord. 0-16-13, 8-5-2013; Ord. 0-05-
17, 4-3-2017; Ord. O-06-21, 5-3-2021; Ord. O-02-23, 3-6-2023; Ord. 21-23, 11-6-
2023; Ord. O-26-23, 12-18-2023; Ord. O-15-24, 8-5-2024)
3-3-7-5: CLASS E LICENSE:
   (A)   A Class E license shall authorize the sale at retail of beer and wine
in original package only but not for consumption on the premises of sale. Such
license shall be authorized only at such location where prepackaged food is
also sold and only in such locations where there are no seats for consumption
of food on the premises.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale at
retail any beer or wine in the original package but not for consumption on the
premises of sale in the City between one minute past twelve o’clock (12:01)
A.M. and seven o’clock (7:00) A.M., except on Sundays when it shall be unlawful
for anyone to sell or offer for sale any beer or wine at retail in the original
package but not for consumption on the premises of sale between the hours of
one minute past twelve o’clock (12:01) A.M. and nine o’clock (9:00) A.M.
   (C)   The number of Class E licenses shall be five (5).
   (D)   The annual fee for a Class E license shall be one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00). (Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-1994; amd. Ord. 0-41-08, 11-
17-2008; Ord. 0-18-09, 6-15-2009; Ord. 0-07-12, 2-21-2012; Ord. 0-16-20, 8-3-
2020; Ord. O-22-25, 4-21-2025)
3-3-7-6: CLASS F LICENSE:
   (A)   A Class F license shall only authorize the sale at retail of beer and
wine for consumption at tables on the premises of sale provided such sale and
serving is accessory to the main purpose of serving food on the premises or on
a carryout basis. Beer shall be sold only by the glass or pitcher. Wine shall
be sold only by glass or carafe.
   (B)   The serving of beer or wine for consumption while seated at a counter
or bar shall not be permitted under a Class F license.
   (C)   Delivery of beer or wine by the license holder or his employees with
carryout orders shall not be permitted under a Class F license.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale beer or
wine in conjunction with a Class F liquor license between one o'clock (1:00)
A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M., except on Sundays when it shall be
unlawful for anyone to sell or offer for sale beer or wine under a Class F
liquor license between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock
(12:00) noon. The Commissioner may extend the hours for lawful sale and service
of beer and wine on special occasions such as New Year's Eve.
   (E)   A Class F liquor license, where issued, shall be for an establishment
which caters principally to elementary aged schoolchildren and their families.
Entertainment in the form of theatrical or musical presentations directed
toward children and their families shall be permitted within such an
establishment. The use of automatic amusement devices shall be allowed at such
an establishment to the extent that they are otherwise permitted by the
ordinances of the City.
   (F)   The number of Class F licenses shall be one (1).
   (G)   The annual fee for a Class F license shall be one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00). (Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-1994)
3-3-7-7: CLASS G LICENSE:
   (A)   A Class G license shall authorize the sale at retail of alcoholic
liquor in the original package for consumption off the premises and for
consumption on the premises of sale. (Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-1994)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale at
retail in the City between one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00)
A.M., except on Saturdays when it shall be unlawful for any person to sell or
offer for sale at retail or serve for consumption on the premises in the City
between two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. and on Sundays
when it shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale at retail or
serve for consumption on the premises in the City between two o'clock (2:00)
A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. The Commissioner may extend the hours for
lawful sale and service of alcoholic liquor on special occasions such as New
Year's Eve. (Ord. 0-22-14, 7-7-2014)
   (C)   The number of Class G licenses shall be one (1).
   (D)   The annual fee for a Class G license shall be two thousand dollars
($2,000.00). (Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-1994)
3-3-7-8: CLASS H LICENSE:
   (A)   A Class H license shall authorize the sale at retail of alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises and the sale at retail of beer and wine
in original package but not for consumption on the premises of sale, provided
such sale and serving is accessory to the main purpose of the sale of food on a
carryout basis.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale at
retail in the City between one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00)
A.M., except on Sundays when it shall be unlawful for any person to sell or
offer for sale at retail or serve for consumption on the premises in the City
between one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) noon. The
Commissioner may extend the hours for lawful sale and service of alcoholic
liquor on special occasions such as New Year's Eve. (Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-1994)
   (C)   The number of Class H licenses shall be two (2). (Ord. 0-12-17, 7-17-
2017)
   (D)   The annual fee for a Class H license shall be two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500.00). (Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-1994)
3-3-7-9: CLASS I LICENSE:
   (A)   A Class I license shall authorize the sale at retail of alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises, provided such sale and serving is
accessory to the main purpose of operating an approved amusement premises for
which all permits have been previously granted by the City Council. (Ord. 0-39-
94, 9-19-1994)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer to sell at retail
or serve for consumption on the premises alcoholic liquor in the City between
one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M., except on Saturdays
when it shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale at retail or
serve for consumption on the premises in the City between two o'clock (2:00)
A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M., and on Sundays when it shall be unlawful
for any person to sell or offer for sale at retail or serve for consumption on
the premises in the City between two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock
(12:00) noon. The Commissioner may extend the hours for lawful sale and service
of alcoholic liquor on special occasions such as New Year's Eve. (Ord. 0-41-08,
11-17-2008)
   (C)   The number of Class I licenses shall be one (1).
   (D)   The annual fee for a Class I license shall be two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500.00). (Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-1994)
3-3-7-10: CLASS J LICENSE:
Temporary license, daily fee.
   (A)   A Class J license shall authorize the sale at retail of alcoholic
liquor for consumption only at the location and on the specified dates
designated for the special event in the license. Such temporary liquor licenses
may be granted to organizations and clubs such as, but not limited to,
veterans' organizations, educational, fraternal, political, civic, religious or
other nonprofit organizations.
   (B)   A Class J license shall be granted on a day to day basis, but not to
exceed three (3) consecutive days. The Class J license shall authorize the sale
of alcoholic liquor for consumption only at the location until twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight on Friday and Saturday and until nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. on
Sunday. An applicant for a temporary liquor license must submit with the
application proof satisfactory to the Commissioner that the applicant shall
provide dramshop liability insurance in the maximum limits. (Ord. 0-27-16, 8-1-
2016)
   (C)   The fee for a Class J license shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per day.
(Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-1994)
3-3-7-11: CLASS K LICENSE:
   (A)   A Class K license shall authorize the sale at retail of beer and wine
for consumption on the premises of sale or at tables, provided such sale and
serving is accessory to the main purpose of serving food on the premises or on
a carryout basis.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale beer or
wine in conjunction with a Class K liquor license between one o'clock (1:00)
A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M., except Sundays when it shall be unlawful
for anyone to sell or offer for sale beer or wine under a Class K liquor
license between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00)
noon. The Commissioner may extend the hours for lawful sale and service of beer
and wine on special occasions such as New Year's Eve.
   (C)   The number of Class K licenses shall be five (5).
   (D)   The annual fee for a Class K license shall be one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00). (Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-1994; amd. Ord. 0-24-16, 7-18-
2016; Ord. 0-27-19, 11-4-2019; Ord. 0-10-20, 6-15-2020; Ord. O-17-22, 9-6-2022;
Ord. O-10-23, 6-19-2023; Ord. O-16-23, 10-2-2023; Ord. O-14-24, 7-15-2024; Ord.
O-15-24, 8-5-2024)
3-3-7-12: CLASS L LICENSE:
(Rep. by Ord. 0-37-12, 10-15-2012)
3-3-7-13: CLASS M LICENSE:
   (A)   A Class M license shall authorize the sale at retail and serving of
alcoholic liquor at a counter or bar and at tables in premises operated by a
nonprofit organization for members of the organization, their guests, and
public patrons. The sale and consumption of alcoholic liquor shall be limited
to the premises.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale
alcoholic liquor in conjunction with a Class M liquor license between eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. The Commissioner may
extend the hours for lawful sale and service of alcoholic liquor on special
occasions such as New Year's Eve.
   (C)   The number of Class M licenses shall be one. (Ord. 0-12-18, 5-7-2018)
   (D)   The annual fee for a Class M license shall be one thousand dollars
($1,000.00).
   (E)   All proceeds and profits made pursuant to the operation of a business
activity under this license shall be for a lawful nonprofit organization. No
officer or owner of any licensee under this section shall individually receive
any remuneration or compensation from the business activities pursuant to this
license. (Ord. 0-26-13, 10-7-2013)
3-3-7-14: CLASS N LICENSE:
   (A)   A Class N license shall authorize the on premises consumption and
retail sale of craft beer where the premises is that of a brewing facility. For
the purposes of this subsection, "brewing facility" is defined as a place in
which the primary business is the manufacturing, packaging, distribution, sale
and storage of craft beer produced on the premises in compliance with Federal
and State laws. The following regulations shall apply to the Class N license:
      1.   No more than a total of fifty thousand (50,000) gallons of beer
shall be sold at retail in growlers, cans and/or bottles for off premises
consumption per year.
      2.   All growlers, cans and beers sold at retail for off premises
consumption must be properly sealed.
      3.   Retail sales for off premises consumption and on premises
consumption shall be limited to the retail portion of the licensed premises;
except, however, on premises consumption may be allowed in other areas of the
licensed premises during supervised tours and private events. The retail
portion of the licensed premises shall not exceed three thousand (3,000) square
feet.
      4.   Product sampling shall be permitted in accordance with State law, at
no charge.
      5.   Patrons under twenty one (21) years of age shall be allowed on the
premises when accompanied by a person twenty one (21) years of age or older;
except, however, classes and seminars on alcoholic related subjects shall only
be open to patrons twenty one (21) years and older.
      6.   Live entertainment is restricted to the indoor retail portion of the
premises; except, however, live entertainment may be permitted in other indoor
areas of the licensed premises during private events. (Ord. 0-34-14, 11-3-2014)
   (B)   It shall only be lawful to sell at retail or offer for sale at retail
craft beer in conjunction with a Class N liquor license for off premises and/or
on premises consumption between twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and eleven o'clock
(11:00) P.M., Sunday through Saturday. Except, however, private events shall
not be restricted to the above hours. For private events it shall be unlawful
to sell or serve craft beer between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and
eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M., except on Saturdays and Sundays when it shall be
unlawful for anyone to sell or serve craft beer between the hours of two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. The Commissioner may extend
the hours of lawful sale or service of craft beer on special occasions such as
New Year's Eve. (Ord. 0-16-16, 5-16-2016)
   (C)   The number of Class N licenses shall be one.
   (D)   The annual fee for a Class N license shall be two thousand dollars
($2,000.00). (Ord. 0-34-14, 11-3-2014)
3-3-7-15: CLASS O LICENSE:
   (A)   A Class O license shall authorize the sale at retail and serving of
alcoholic liquor at a counter or bar and at tables, provided such operation is
carried on in conjunction with a restaurant operation serving a menu offering
complete meals. The bar service or service at tables where a full menu is not
available shall take place in a separate room from the full menu restaurant
operation.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale
alcoholic liquor in conjunction with a Class O liquor license between one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., except on Saturdays and
Sundays when it shall be unlawful for anyone to sell or offer for sale
alcoholic liquor under a Class O liquor license between the hours of two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. The Commissioner may extend
the hours for lawful sale and service of alcoholic liquor on special occasions
such as New Year's Eve.
   (C)   Live music shall be permitted. Such music may be provided by a band,
musical group or an individual playing an instrument. No person providing such
music shall be under the age of eighteen (18). Such music shall be for the
dancing or listening pleasure of patrons only.
   (D)   The number of Class O licenses shall be one.
   (E)   The annual fee for a Class O license shall be two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500.00). (Ord. 0-21-15, 6-15-2015)
3-3-7-16: CLASS P LICENSE:
   (A)   A Class P license shall authorize the sale at retail of alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises and the sale at retail of beer and wine
in original package but not for consumption on the premises of sale, provided
such sale and serving is accessory to the main purpose of the sale of food on a
carryout basis.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale at
retail in the City between one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. The Commissioner may extend the hours for lawful sale and service of
alcoholic liquor on special occasions such as New Year's Eve.
   (C)   The number of Class P licenses shall be two (2).
   (D)   The annual fee for a Class P license shall be two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500.00). (Ord. 0-12-17, 7-17-2017; amd. Ord. O-15-22, 8-1-
2022)
3-3-7-17: CLASS Q LICENSE:
   (A)   A Class Q license shall authorize sale at retail wine in the original
package but not for consumption on the premises of sale where the premises is a
gift shop operated by a not-for-profit religious organization and for the
benefit of said religious organization. Provided, however, that the Liquor
Commissioner may authorize the licensed premises to offer wine tastings at up
to four (4) special events per year. The granting of permission to hold such
wine tastings shall be within the sole discretion of the Commissioner who shall
be petitioned in writing to allow such a wine tasting at least three (3) days
prior to the date upon which the wine tasting is proposed to take place. It
shall be unlawful for a wine tasting to take place without the prior permission
of the Commissioner.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer to sell at retail
any wine in the original package but not for consumption on the premises of
sale in the City between one minute past twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M.
   (C)   The number of Class Q licenses shall be zero (0).
   (D)   The annual fee for a Class Q license shall be one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00). (Ord. 0-28-19, 11-4-2019; amd. Ord. O-15-24, 8-5-
2024)
3-3-7-18: PAYMENT OF FEES, EXPIRATION DATE:
   (A)   All liquor license fees shall be paid to the City Clerk at the time of
application. If the license is denied, such application fee shall be returned.
Said license fees shall be deposited in the General Fund of the City. A
separate fifty dollar ($50.00) nonrefundable license application fee for each
person to be investigated under section
3-3-17 of this chapter plus reasonable costs shall be tendered to the City
Clerk with each application submitted for license. Such additional costs shall
include, but are not limited to, fingerprinting fees for each applicant and/or
member stockholder, and as such fees may be increased from time to time by the
Illinois State Police and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and their
successors and assigns.
   (B)   All licenses shall expire on June 30 of each year. (Ord. 0-39-94, 9-
19-1994; amd. Ord. 0-14-05, 6-20-2005; Ord. 0-26-13, 10-7-2013; Ord. 0-34-14,
11-3-2014; Ord. 0-21-15, 6-15-2015; Ord. 0-12-17, 7-17-2017)
3-3-8: CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS OF LICENSE:
   (A)   Location:
      1.   Authorized Location: No liquor shall be sold, offered for sale,
kept, advertised or displayed for sale or delivered to any person purchasing
the same except at the location, place or premises described in the liquor
license.
      2.   Location Of Premises: No license shall be issued for the sale at
retail of any alcoholic liquor within one hundred feet (100') of any church,
school, hospital or home for the aged or indigent persons. In the case of a
church, the distance of one hundred feet (100') shall be measured to the
nearest part of any building used for worship services or educational programs
and not to property boundaries. The word "premises" as used herein, shall mean
the lot, plot or parcel of land upon which alcoholic liquors are sold.
Nothing in this section shall prohibit the issuance of a temporary liquor
license to a church or private school to sell at retail alcoholic liquor if any
such sales are limited to periods when groups are assembled on the premises
solely for the promotion of some common object other than the sale or
consumption of alcoholic liquors. Such temporary licenses shall be subject to
the conditions set forth in section
3-3-7-10 of this chapter.
   (B)   Separate License For Each Premises: Licenses apply only to the
premises described in the application, and in the license issued thereon, and
only one location shall be so described in each license. After a license has
been granted for a particular premises, the Commissioner, upon proper showing
may endorse upon said license permission to abandon the premises therein
described and remove therefrom to other premises approved by him; however,
approval shall only be granted upon the licensee filing with the Commissioner a
request in writing and a statement under oath which shall show the premises to
which removal is to be made complies in all respects with the requirements of
this chapter.
   (C)   Sale, Consumption, Possession, Occupancy: It shall be unlawful for any
licensee to offer for sale or permit to be sold, or allow anyone on his
premises to consume or have in his possession for consumption, any alcoholic
liquor, or permit the public to remain upon the property, later than the
applicable closing times stated under this chapter.
   (D)   Licenses:
      1.   Record Of Licenses: The City Clerk shall keep a complete record of
all liquor licenses issued and shall furnish the Chief of Police with a copy
thereof; upon revocation or suspension of any license, the City Clerk shall
immediately give written notice thereof to the Chief.
      2.   Display Of License: Every licensee shall cause his license or
licenses to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the
licensed premises.
      3.   Duplicate License; Fee: In the event of the loss or destruction of a
license issued hereunder, upon written application stating such fact and
accompanied by the required fee, the Commissioner shall issue a duplicate of
such license. The fee for the issuance of a duplicate license shall be fifty
dollars ($50.00) if the original license was one thousand five hundred dollars
($1,500.00) or less, and one hundred dollars ($100.00) if the original license
fee was more than one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00).
   (E)   Insurance Requirements: No liquor license shall be granted to an
applicant until such applicant shall furnish evidence satisfactory to the
Commissioner that such applicant is covered by a policy of dram shop insurance
issued by a responsible insurance company authorized and licensed to do
business in the State insuring such applicant against liability which such
applicant may incur under the provisions of section 5/6-21 of the Act, and
specifically designating the City as an additional insured. The evidence of the
insurance policy shall indicate that the term of the insurance is of sufficient
length to encompass the period of the license sought.
   (F)   Transfer Of License: A license shall be a purely personal privilege,
effective for a period not to exceed one year after issuance unless sooner
revoked as provided in this Chapter, and shall not constitute property, nor
shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or execution, nor shall it be
alienable or transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being
encumbered or hypothecated. Such license shall cease upon the death of the
licensee, and shall not descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution;
provided that executors or administrators of the estate of any deceased
licensee, and the trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such
estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of the
sale at retail of alcoholic liquor under order of the appropriate court, and
may exercise the privileges of the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee
after the death of such decedent, or such insolvency or bankruptcy, until the
expiration of such license, but not longer than six (6) months after the death,
bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee. A refund shall be made of that
portion of the license fees paid for any period in which the licensee shall be
prevented from operating under the provisions of this Section.
   (G)   Renewal: Any licensee may renew his license at the expiration thereof,
provided he is then qualified to receive a license and the premises for which
such renewal is sought are suitable for such purpose; and provided further that
the renewal privilege shall not be construed as a vested right which shall in
any case prevent the corporate authorities from decreasing the number of
licenses to be issued within the City and/or eliminating certain
classifications of licenses within the City. No license shall be renewed unless
the applicant provides documentation that any tax owed to the City by the
applicant has been satisfied by payment.
   (H)   Books And Records: Every licensee shall make available upon reasonable
notice books and records for the purpose of investigation and control by the
Commissioner. Such books and records need not be maintained on the licensed
premises, but must be maintained in the State. All original invoices covering
purchases of alcoholic liquors must be retained on the licensed premises for a
period of ninety (90) days after such purchase.
   (I)   Every holder of a license shall cause a sign with the message:
      GOVERNMENT WARNING; ACCORDING TO THE SURGEON GENERAL, WOMEN SHOULD NOT
DRINK ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES DURING PREGNANCY BECAUSE OF THE RISK OF BIRTH DEFECTS
   to be framed and hung in plain view. The licensee shall have thirty (30)
days from receipt of the warning sign to post it on the licensed premises.
Thereafter, a licensee who violates this Section is subject to a written
warning for the first violation. For a second or subsequent violation, the
licensee shall pay a fine of at least twenty dollars ($20.00) but no more than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each such violation. For the third and
subsequent violations, each day the activity continues shall be a separate
violation. (Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-1994)
3-3-9: INCOMPLETE APPLICATIONS:
   (A)   Applications for liquor licenses which are incomplete or fail to
contain the statements or information required by Section
3-3-5 of this Chapter shall be rejected by the Commissioner. The Commissioner
shall issue a written rejection of such application setting forth the
deficiencies in said application within sixty (60) days of its receipt by the
Commissioner or City Clerk in his or her behalf. Prior to such rejection, the
applicant may submit the additional information or statements required to
complete such application in accordance with Section
3-3-5 of this Chapter.
   (B)   Administrative or legal expenses incurred in reviewing incomplete
liquor license applications, advising the applicant of such deficiencies and
rejecting such applications shall be paid by the applicant. A bill or invoice
shall be submitted to the applicant specifying the additional administrative or
legal expenses incurred in processing the applicant's incomplete liquor license
application, which shall be paid by the applicant together with the annual
license fee and any other required fee prior to the issuance of a liquor
license. (Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-1994)
3-3-10: VIOLATION OF RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX ACT:
   (A)   In addition to other grounds specified in this Chapter, the
Commissioner may refuse the issuance or renewal of a liquor license or suspend
or revoke such license for any of the following violations of the Retailers'
Occupation Tax Act 1 :
      1.   Failure to make a tax return.
      2.   The filing of fraudulent return.
      3.   Failure to pay all or part of any tax or penalty finally determined
to be due.
      4.   Failure to keep books and records.
      5.   Failure to secure and display a certificate or subcertificates of
registration.
      6.   Wilful violation of any rule or regulation of the Illinois
Department of Revenue relating to the administration and enforcement of tax
liability. (Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-1994)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
3-3-11: ATTIRE:
   (A)   The wearing of any topless or similar costumes by any licensee,
employee, associate, agent, member, officer, representative or independent
contractor of such licensee, whether compensated or not, shall be strictly
prohibited during the course of the sale, distribution, service, pouring,
mixing, drawing, dispersion or delivery of alcoholic liquors of every
description, either independently or in conjunction with food or foodstuffs,
across a bar or at a table.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any employee, associate,
agent, member, officer, representative or independent contractor of such
licensee, whether compensated or not, at any time on the premises or in the
course of the conduct of the business to which the license provided under this
Chapter applies, to:
      1.   Expose his or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, natal cleft,
perineum, anal region or pubic hair region.
      2.   Expose any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of
or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, natal cleft, perineum, anal
region or pubic hair region.
      3.   Expose any portion of the female breast at or below the areola
thereof.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person
described in subsection (A) or (B) of this Section to violate any of the
provisions hereof. (Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-1994)
3-3-12: CONDUCT PROHIBITED:
The following kinds of conduct on premises in the City licensed to sell
alcoholic liquor are prohibited:
   (A)   The performance of acts, or simulated acts, of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or any sexual
acts which are prohibited by law.
   (B)   The actual or simulated touching, caressing or fondling of the breast,
buttocks, anus or genitals.
   (C)   The actual or simulated displaying of the breasts, pubic hair, anus,
vulva or genitals.
   (D)   The permitting by a licensee of any person to remain in or upon the
licensed premises who exposes to public view any portion of his or her genitals
or anus.
   (E)   The displaying of books, magazines, coin-operated motion picture
devices, films, movies, or photographic slide presentations depicting,
describing or relating to:
      1.   The performance of acts, or simulated acts of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or any sexual
acts which are prohibited by law.
      2.   The actual or simulated touching, caressing or fondling of the
breast, buttocks, anus or genitals.
      3.   The actual or simulated displaying of the breasts, pubic hair, anus,
vulva or genitals.
   (F)   The display by live models of undergarments, sleepwear, lingerie and
swimming attire and any other entertainment, fashion show, presentation or
performance which may include any person in a nude or seminude state,
including, but not limited to, servers, hosts, hostesses, dancers, singers,
models or other performance artists, or to permit role playing interactions.
(Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-1994)
3-3-13: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be unlawful to refuse to grant admittance to the premises at any time
upon the verbal request of the Commissioner, or any police officer or health
officer authorized by him, of the City, for the purpose of determining whether
or not the Illinois Liquor Control Act or the provisions of this Chapter are
being violated. (Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-1994)
3-3-14: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   (A)   Peddling: It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the City.
   (B)   Gambling: Gambling shall not be permitted on any premises licensed to
sell alcoholic liquor. Bingo and charitable games, as regulated and licensed
under sections 25/1 et seq. and 30/1 et seq., respectively, of the Illinois
Compiled Statutes, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 25/1 et seq. and 30/1 et seq.
shall be allowed at any location having a Class J temporary liquor license.
   (C)   Solicitation:
      1.   No licensee, his manager, agent or employee shall allow, permit or
suffer to maintain on the licensed premises any person who engages in an act
which constitutes soliciting for a prostitute or soliciting for a juvenile
prostitute as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-15 and 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-15.1. No licensee, his manager, agent or
employee shall commit any act which constitutes keeping a place of prostitution
as set forth in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-17 on the licensed
premises.
      2.   No licensee, his manager, agent or employee shall allow, permit or
suffer to remain on the licensed premises any person who solicits any customer
or patron of the licensed premises to purchase alcoholic or nonalcoholic
beverages.
      3.   No licensee, his manager, agent or employee shall allow or permit
any employee or contractor who performs any live act, demonstration, dance or
exhibition on the licensed premises to solicit or accept payment of money or
other valuable consideration from any customer or patron of the licensed
premises for such performance. (Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-1994)
3-3-15: PREMISES RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   All licensed premises shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition
and shall be kept in full compliance with this Chapter. No licensed premises
shall be operated or occupied in violation of any building, fire, health or
safety code, rule, regulation, occupancy or capacity limitation established or
adopted by the City or the State.
   (B)   Maximum capacity or occupancy restrictions shall be established for
each licensed premises by the Building Department and shall be posted in no
less than two (2) prominent locations in the particular premises. (Ord. 0-39-
94, 9-19-1994)
   (C)   All licensed premises shall enforce and comply with the smoke free
Illinois act, 410 Illinois Compiled Statutes 82/1 et seq. ("act").
Additionally, no licensee, his/her manager, agent or employee shall permit or
suffer to maintain on the licensed premises any person who is smoking in or
about the premises in violation of the act. (Ord. 0-52-07, 12-17-2007, eff. 1-
1-2008)
3-3-16: PERSONNEL RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   Change In Personnel:
      1.   Any changes in partnerships, officers, directors, persons holding
directly or beneficially more than five percent (5%) of the stock or ownership
interest, and/or any changes in managers or assistant managers of
establishments licensed under this chapter shall be reported in writing to the
commissioner within ten (10) days of such change. All new personnel shall meet
all of the requirements of this chapter and must otherwise qualify to hold a
liquor license. All such changes in personnel shall be subject to review by the
commissioner.
      2.   When a license has been issued to a partnership and a change of
ownership occurs resulting in a partnership interest by one who is not eligible
to hold a liquor license, said license shall terminate.
      3.   When a license has been issued to a corporation, and a change takes
place in officers, directors, managers or shareholders owning more than five
percent (5%) of the stock, resulting in the holding of office or such shares of
stock by one who is not eligible for a license, said license shall terminate.
      4.   When a license has been issued to an individual who is no longer
eligible for a license, said license shall terminate.
   (B)   Management On Duty: A licensed premises shall have on duty a manager,
assistant manager or owner who is listed as managerial staff in the liquor
license application of the licensee.
   (C)   Employee Education: Every licensee, his manager, assistant manager,
bartender and employee who sell or serve alcoholic liquor shall be required to
participate in a program designed to educate and train such persons to identify
and address persons displaying problems with alcohol misuse and abuse. Said
program shall be licensed by the Illinois department of alcoholism and
substance abuse. (Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-1994)
3-3-17: EXAMINATION AND INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
   (A)   Examination Of Applicant: The commissioner shall have the right to
examine, or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a retail liquor
dealer's license or for a renewal thereof, and/or books and records of any such
applicant, to hear testimony and take proof for his information in the
performance of his duties, and for such purpose to issue subpoenas which shall
be effective in any part of this state. For the purpose of obtaining any of the
information desired by the commissioner under this section, he may authorize
his agent to act on his behalf, as provided by statute. The failure of any
applicant to appear at the time and place fixed by the commissioner for his
examination or to produce books and records requested, unless for good cause
shown, shall be deemed to be an admission that the objections or charges are
true and that the applicant is not qualified to receive a license.
   (B)   Investigation Of Applicant: No license shall be issued until the
applicant(s) shall have been investigated by the commissioner and a report
filed in the records of said commissioner approving the applicant(s). Applicant
(s) shall not be licensed until said applicant(s) and managers, if any, have
been fingerprinted and photographed by the chief of police and record searches
made of the files of the sheriff of DuPage County, the Illinois bureau of
investigations, the federal bureau of investigation and any other record agency
that the chief of police shall deem necessary. A copy of the fingerprints and
photographs shall be retained in the files of the city clerk, and a sworn
affidavit from the chief of police clearing the applicant(s) shall be filed
with the commissioner. (Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-1994)
3-3-18: EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   Employment Of Minors: It shall be unlawful for any licensee or
employee of the licensee to engage or employ or permit any person under the age
of twenty one (21) to tend bar and to draw, pour or mix any alcoholic liquor in
any licensed retail premises. It shall be unlawful to employ any person under
the age of eighteen (18) years in connection with the sale or delivery of
alcoholic liquor.
   (B)   Employees: It shall be unlawful to employ in any licensed premises any
person who has any contagious or infectious disease if such person would be
employed in any capacity that entails the handling, preparation or distribution
of food, nonalcoholic beverages and alcoholic liquor. (Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-1994)
3-3-19: SALES TO MINORS:
   (A)   No licensee nor any officer, associate, member, representative, agent
or employee of such licensee shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to
any person under the age of twenty one (21) years or to any intoxicated person
or to any person known by him or her to be under legal disability or in need of
mental treatment. No person after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic
liquor, shall sell, give or deliver such alcoholic liquor to another person
under the age of twenty one (21) years except in the performance of a religious
ceremony or service.
   (B)   No person shall sell, give, or furnish to any person under the age of
twenty one (21) years any false or fraudulent written, printed or photostatic
evidence of the age and identity of such person or sell, give or furnish to any
person under the age of twenty one (21) years evidence of age and
identification of any other person.
   (C)   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years, shall present or
offer to any licensee, his/her agent or employee, any written, printed or
photostatic evidence of age and identity which is false, fraudulent, or not
actually his/her own for the purpose of ordering, purchasing, attempting to
purchase or otherwise procuring or attempting to procure, the serving of any
alcoholic beverage. No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall have
in his/her possession any false or fraudulent written, printed or photostatic
evidence of age and identity.
   (D)   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall have any
alcoholic beverage in his/her possession on any street or highway or in any
public place or in any place open to the public, except as authorized by
subsection (J) of this section. This subsection does not apply to possession by
a person under the age of twenty one (21) years making a delivery of an
alcoholic beverage in pursuance of the order of his/her parent or in pursuance
of his/her employment.
   (E)   No parent or guardian shall permit his or her residence to be used by
an invitee of the parent's child or the guardian's ward, if the invitee is
under the age of twenty one (21), in a manner that constitutes a violation of
this subsection except as authorized by subsection (J) of this section. A
parent or guardian is deemed to have permitted his or her residence to be used
in violation of this subsection if he or she knowingly authorizes, enables, or
permits such use to occur by failing to control access to either the residence
or the alcoholic liquor maintained in the residence.
   (F)   No person shall knowingly permit a gathering at a residence which he
or she occupies of two (2) or more persons where any one or more of the persons
is under twenty one (21) years of age and the following factors also apply:
      1.   The person occupying the residence knows that any person under the
age of twenty one (21) is in possession of or is consuming any alcoholic
beverage; and
      2.   The possession or consumption of the alcohol by the person under
twenty one (21) is not otherwise permitted by this section; and
      3.   The person occupying the residence knows that the person under the
age of twenty one (21) leaves the residence in an intoxicated condition. For
the purpose of this subsection (F)3 where the residence has an owner and a
tenant or lessee, there is a rebuttable presumption that the residence is
occupied only by the tenant or lessee.
   (G)   No person shall rent a hotel or motel room from the proprietor or
agent thereof for the purpose of or with the knowledge that such a room shall
be used for the consumption of alcoholic liquor by persons under the age of
twenty one (21) years.
   (H)   Any person to whom the sale, gift or delivery of any alcoholic liquor
is prohibited because of age shall not purchase, or accept a gift of such
alcoholic liquor or have such alcoholic liquor in his/her possession.
   (I)   No person shall transfer, alter, or deface an identification card
containing proof of age; use the identification card of another; carry or use a
false or forged identification card; or obtain an identification card by means
of false information. No person shall purchase, accept delivery or have
possession of alcoholic liquor in violation of this subsection. The consumption
of alcoholic liquor by any person under twenty one (21) years of age is
forbidden except as authorized by subsection (J) of this section.
   (J)   The possession and dispensing, or consumption by a person under twenty
one (21) years of age of alcoholic liquor in the performance of a religious
service or ceremony, or the consumption by a person under twenty one (21) years
of age under the direct supervision and approval of the parents or parent or
those persons standing in loco parentis of such person under twenty one (21)
years of age in the privacy of a home, is not prohibited by this subsection.
   (K)   Every licensee shall display at all times a printed card which shall
be issued by the city clerk to each licensee and which shall read substantially
as follows:
      WARNING TO MINORS
      You are subject to a fine of up to $500.00 under the Ordinances of the
City of Darien if you purchase alcoholic liquor or misrepresent your age for
the purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor.
   (L)   No parent or guardian of any minor child shall knowingly or
negligently allow such minor child to violate any of the provisions of this
section.
   (M)   Proof that a licensee, or his/her employee or agent, demanded, was
shown and reasonably relied upon adequate written evidence of age and identity
of a person in any transaction forbidden by this section is an affirmative
defense to any proceedings for the suspension or revocation of any license
based thereon. It shall not, however, be an affirmative defense if the agent or
employee accepted the written evidence knowing it to be false or fraudulent.
No agent or employee of the licensee shall be disciplined or discharged for
selling or furnishing liquor to a person under twenty one (21) years of age, if
the agent or employee demanded and was shown, before furnishing alcoholic
liquor to a person under twenty one (21) years of age, adequate written
evidence of age and identity of the person. This paragraph, however, shall not
apply if the agent or employee accepted the written evidence knowing it to be
false or fraudulent.
   (N)   Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this
section in a court of competent jurisdiction shall be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. 0-05-01, 2-5-2001)
3-3-20: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSES AND FINES:
The commissioner may revoke or suspend any license and impose a fine, if he/she
determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of this code or
state or federal law, including the smoke free Illinois act, 410 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 82/1 et seq., and/or subsection
3-3-15(C) of this chapter, or any other ordinances or resolutions of the city
or any applicable rules or regulations established by the Illinois liquor
control commission. No license may be suspended or revoked and no fines levied
except after a public hearing with a three (3) day written notice to the
licensee. Monetary fines may be imposed for each violation; each day on which a
violation continues shall constitute a separate violation. Proceeds from such
fines shall be paid into the city's general corporate fund. (Ord. 0-52-07, 12-
17-2007, eff. 1-1-2008)
   (A)   If the commissioner has a reason to believe that any continued
operation of a particular licensed premises will immediately threaten the
welfare of the city, he may, upon the issuance of a written order stating the
reason for such conclusion and without notice or hearing, order the licensed
premises closed for not more than seven (7) days, giving the licensee an
opportunity to be heard during that period; except that if the licensee is
engaged in the conduct of another business on the licensed premises such order
shall not be applicable to such other business.
   (B)   Upon complaint being made of violation of this chapter or the Illinois
statutes or the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, the commissioner
shall set the matter for hearing and shall serve notice upon the licensee of
the time and place of such hearing and the particular charge.
   (C)   Notice of such hearing shall be served by registered or certified
mail, prepaid, return receipt requested, or by leaving a copy of said notice
with the licensee or with a person at the said licensed place of business at
least three (3) days prior to the hearing. The notice shall also include a copy
of this section.
   (D)   All evidence received at the hearing shall be reduced to writing and
an official record of the proceedings shall be maintained. Within five (5) days
of the conclusion of the hearing, the commissioner shall determine if the
license should be revoked or suspended or that the licensee should be fined,
and state the reasons for such determination in a written order, and either the
amount of the fine, the period of suspension or that the license has been
revoked, and shall serve a copy of the order within five (5) days upon the
licensee.
   (E)   Pursuant to 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/7-9, any appeal from a
decision of the Commissioner to the State Commission shall be limited to a
review of the official proceedings of the Commissioner. A certified copy of the
record of the proceedings taken and prepared by a certified court reporter or
certified shorthand reporter shall be filed by the Commissioner within five (5)
days after notice of the filing of such an appeal, if the appellant licensee
pays the cost of the transcript.
   (F)   When any license shall have been revoked for any cause, no license
shall be granted to any person for the period of one (1) year thereafter for
the conduct of selling alcoholic liquor in the premises described in such
revoked license. (Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-1994)
3-3-21: ASSESSMENT OF COSTS OF HEARINGS:
Any licensee determined by the Commissioner to have violated any of the
provisions of the Illinois Liquor Control Act, this chapter or any other valid
ordinance or resolution enacted by the City Council, or any applicable rule or
regulation established by the Commissioner or by the Illinois Liquor Control
Commission, shall pay to the City the costs of the hearing before the
Commissioner on such violation. The Commissioner shall determine the costs
incurred by the City including court reporter fees, the cost of transcripts or
records, attorney fees, the cost of preparing and mailing notices and orders,
and other miscellaneous expenses incurred by the City. The licensee shall pay
said costs to the City within thirty (30) days of notification of the costs by
the Commissioner. Failure to pay said costs within thirty (30) days of
notification is a violation of this section, and may be cause for imposition of
a fine, license revocation or suspension. In the event of an appeal to the
State Commission and in cases where appeal is taken under the Administrative
Review Act, payment is due forty (40) days after entry of an order by the State
Commission or appropriate court, as the case may be, finally affirming the
determination of the Commissioner. (Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-1994)
3-3-22: FORFEITURE OF FEES:
Whenever any license hereunder has been revoked as provided for in this
chapter, the licensee shall forfeit all monies that have been paid for said
license. (Ord. 0-39-94, 9-19-1994)
3-3-23: COPY OF ORDINANCE TO BE PROVIDED LICENSEES:
A licensee to whom a Class A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, M, N, O, P, and Q
license is issued hereunder shall annually be provided with a copy of this
chapter, and shall sign a certificate stating that said copy has been provided
and that the licensee agrees to comply with all provisions hereof as a
condition of said license. (Ord. 0-12-17, 7-17-2017; amd. Ord. 0-28-19, 11-4-
2019)
3-3-24: OUTDOOR SALES AND CONSUMPTION:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to permit the sale of alcoholic
liquor in an outdoor area without the written permission of the City Liquor
Control Commissioner, and, except for hotels, golf courses and Class J licenses
for special events, such permission shall be granted subject to the following
conditions:
      1.   The perimeter of the outdoor area shall be enclosed.
      2.   The outdoor area shall be owned or leased by the licensee. (Ord. 0-
31-08, 7-7-2008)
      3.   The outdoor area may be open only at times when food service is
available in the restaurant. The restaurant must offer, and have available
during all times that alcoholic liquor is available, a full menu and not the
limited menu of a bar. This section shall not be deemed to permit activities
such as outdoor beer gardens, large scale celebrations, or similar festivities
within the outdoor seating area. (Ord. 0-32-08, 7-21-2008)
      4.   Access to the outdoor area shall be limited to entrances from within
the licensed establishment only and not from a sidewalk or parking lot.
      5.   Seating in the outdoor area shall not be included to meet the
required maximum capacity or occupancy restrictions for any license
classification as established by this title.
      6.   Sale of alcoholic liquor shall be for consumption on the licensed
premises only.
      7.   The outdoor area shall be closed at eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on
Sunday through Thursday, and at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on Friday and
Saturday.
      8.   A plat of survey must be submitted showing the location of the
outdoor area, along with the enclosure details.
      9.   The licensee shall be required to take all necessary measures to
prevent the level of noise and music from the outdoor area from causing any
unreasonable disturbance to any nearby Residentially zoned area. (Ord. 0-31-08,
7-7-2008)
      10.   Live entertainment is not permitted in the outdoor area, except
that live music shall be permitted in the outdoor area provided that such
events are limited to two (2) days per calendar year at a restaurant and the
hours of the event are limited to 7:00 P.M. - 10:00 P.M. on Fridays or
Saturdays and 2:00 P.M. - 5:00 P.M. on Sundays. (Ord. 0-22-19, 8-5-2019)
      11.   An annual permit is required to serve alcoholic liquor at an
outdoor area. The Liquor Commissioner may impose such terms and conditions on
the licensee as shall be necessary to cause the fulfillment of these standards
to be met. Because of the potential for the disturbance of the public health
and safety when alcoholic liquor is sold outdoors or in a not fully enclosed
structure, service of liquor in an outdoor area may be canceled, suspended or
not renewed by the Liquor Commissioner. (Ord. 0-31-08, 7-7-2008)
3-3-25: VIDEO GAMING ALLOWED; FEE; SIGNAGE:
   (A)   Video gaming is allowed in accordance with the Illinois Video Gaming
Act.
   (B)   An annual fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) is imposed for the
operation of each video gaming terminal in the City of Darien.
   (C)   1. Temporary Signs: Signage containing video gaming language or
graphics shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the permitted sign area for
temporary signs.
      2.   Permanent Signs: Signage containing video gaming language or
graphics shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the permitted sign area for
permanent wall and ground signs.
      3.   Window Signs: No window sign containing video gaming language or
graphics shall exceed twenty (20) square feet. (Ord. 0-37-13, 12-16-2013)
CHAPTER 4
MUNICIPAL TAXATION
SECTION:
3-4-1: Home Rule Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax
3-4-2: Home Rule Municipal Service Occupation Tax
3-4-3: Municipal Use Tax
3-4-4: Municipal Gas Utility Tax
3-4-4-1: Tax Imposed
3-4-4-2: Definitions
3-4-4-3: Exceptions To Tax
3-4-4-4: Tax Additional To Other Fees
3-4-4-5: Payment Of Tax
3-4-4-6: Tax Paid In Error, Recovery
3-4-4-7: Failure To Make Return, Pay Tax
3-4-5: Automobile Renting Occupation Tax
3-4-6: Automobile Renting Use Tax
3-4-7: Amusement Tax
3-4-7-1: Definitions
3-4-7-2: Tax; Amount
3-4-7-3: Time Of Payment
3-4-7-4: Books And Records; Sale Or Transfer Of Amusement; Notice; Maintenance
Of Records; Final Audit
3-4-7-5: Exemptions
3-4-7-6: Reports
3-4-7-7: Penalty
3-4-8: Hotel/Motel Tax
3-4-8-1: General
3-4-8-2: Definitions
3-4-8-3: Tax; Amount
3-4-8-4: Time Of Payment
3-4-8-5: Books And Records; Inspection; Content
3-4-8-6: Reports
3-4-8-7: Collection Of Tax
3-4-8-8: Suspension Of Licenses; Hearing; Appearance
3-4-8-9: Proceeds Of Tax And Fines
3-4-8-10: Penalty
3-4-9: Municipal Electric Utility Tax
3-4-9-1: Definitions
3-4-9-2: Tax Imposed
3-4-9-3: Collection Of Tax
3-4-9-4: Tax Remittance And Return
3-4-9-5: Resales
3-4-9-6: Books And Records
3-4-9-7: Credits And Refunds
3-4-9-8: Failure To Make Return, Pay Tax
3-4-9-9: Action To Recover Amount Due
3-4-10: Food And Beverage Tax
3-4-10-1: General
3-4-10-2: Definitions
3-4-10-3: Tax Imposed
3-4-10-4: Exemptions
3-4-10-5: Collection Of Taxes By Retailer
3-4-10-6: Books And Records; Inspections; Content
3-4-10-7: Filing Of Return
3-4-10-8: Late Payment Penalty
3-4-10-9: Transmittal Of Excess Tax Collection
3-4-10-10: Registration
3-4-10-11: Collection Of Tax
3-4-10-12: Suspension Of Licenses; Hearing; Appearance
3-4-10-13: Proceeds Of Tax And Fines
3-4-10-14: Penalties
3-4-10-15: Severability
3-4-11: Motor Vehicle Fuel Tax
3-4-11-1: General
3-4-11-2: Definitions
3-4-11-3: Tax Imposed
3-4-11-4: Collection Of Tax And Report Transmittal
3-4-11-5: Registration And Maintenance Of Records
3-4-11-6: Sales Presumed Taxable; Burden Of Proof
3-4-11-7: Late Payment Penalty
3-4-11-8: Collection Of Tax
3-4-11-9: Proceeds Of Tax And Fines
3-4-11-10: Penalties
3-4-11-11: Severability
3-4-12:   Cannabis Sales Tax
3-4-12-1: Rate
3-4-12-2: Tax Imposition
3-4-1: HOME RULE MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property other than an item of tangible personal property
titled or registered with an agency of this state’s government at retail in the
city of Darien at the rate of one and one-quarter percent (1.25 %) of the gross
receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while this section
is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of section
8-11-1 of the Illinois municipal code, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1.
This home rule municipal retailers’ occupation tax shall not be applicable to
the sales of food for human consumption which is to be consumed off the
premises where it is sold (other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks, and
food that has been prepared for immediate consumption) and prescription and
nonprescription medicines, drugs, medical appliances and insulin, urine testing
materials, syringes and needles used by diabetics. (Ord. 0-32-09, 10-5-2009,
eff. 7-1-2010; amd. Ord. O-25-25, 5-19-2025)
3-4-2: HOME RULE MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the city of Darien in the
business of making sales of service at the rate of one and one-quarter percent
(1.25 %) of the selling price of all tangible personal property transferred by
said servicemen either in the form of all tangible personal property or in the
form of real estate as an incident to a sale of service, in accordance with the
provisions of section
8-11-5 of the Illinois municipal code, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-5.
This home rule municipal service occupation tax shall not be applicable to the
sales of food for human consumption which is to be consumed off the premises
where it is sold (other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks, and food that
has been prepared for immediate consumption) and prescription and
nonprescription medicines, drugs, medical appliances and insulin, urine testing
materials, syringes and needles used by diabetics. (Ord. 0-32-09, 10-5-2009,
eff. 7-1-2010; amd. Ord. O-25-25, 5-19-2025)
3-4-3: MUNICIPAL USE TAX:
A tax is hereby imposed in accordance with provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/8-11-6, upon the privilege of using in the municipality any item of
tangible personal property which is purchased outside Illinois at retail from a
retailer, and which is titled or registered with an agency of the Illinois
government. The tax shall be at a rate of one percent (1%) of the selling price
of such tangible property with selling price to have the meaning as defined in
the use tax act, approved July 14, 1955.
Such tax shall be collected by the Illinois department of revenue for all
municipalities imposing the tax and shall be paid before the title or
certificate of registration for the personal property is issued. (Ord. 0-06-75,
3-17-1975)
3-4-4: MUNICIPAL GAS UTILITY TAX:
3-4-4-1: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following occupations or
privileges: Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits of
the city, and not for resale, at the rate of five percent (5%) per annum for
gross receipts therefrom.
This section
3-4-4 shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval
and publication as provided by law; provided, however, that this section
3-4-4-1 and sections
3-4-4-2, 3-4-4-3 and 3-4-4-6 of this chapter are intended to be effective as to
gross receipts actually paid to the taxpayer on or after November 1, 2009; and
provided further, however, that any amounts due or payable for any tax periods
ending prior to November 1, 2009, are nevertheless to remain payable as if the
ordinance codified herein had not been adopted. (Ord. 0-30-09, 10-5-2009)
3-4-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this section
3-4-4, the following definitions shall apply:
GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received for distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas, for use or consumption and not for resale, as the
case may be; and for all services rendered in connection therewith valued in
money, whether received in money or otherwise, including cash, credit, services
and property of every kind and material and for all services rendered
therewith; and shall be determined without any deduction on account of the cost
of the service, product or commodity supplied, the cost of materials used,
labor or service cost, or any other expenses whatsoever; provided, however,
that "gross receipts" shall not include any amount specifically excluded from
the definition of gross receipts in section
8-11-2(d) of the Illinois municipal code.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, limited liability company,
municipal corporation, the state or any of its political subdivisions, any
state university created by statute, or a receiver, trustee, guardian or other
representative appointed by order of any court. (Ord. 0-30-09, 10-5-2009)
3-4-4-3: EXCEPTIONS TO TAX:
No tax is imposed by this section
3-4-4 with respect to any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to
the extent to which such business may not, under the constitution and statutes
of the United States, be made subject to taxation by the state or any political
subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged in the business of
distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling gas be subject to taxation under
the provisions of this section
3-4-4 for such transactions as are or may become subject to taxation under the
provisions of the "municipal retailers' occupation tax act" authorized by 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1. (Ord. 0-30-09, 10-5-2009)
3-4-4-4: TAX ADDITIONAL TO OTHER FEES:
The tax hereby imposed shall be in addition to the payment of money, or value
of products or services furnished to the city by the taxpayer as compensation
for the use of its streets, alleys or other public places, or installation and
maintenance therein, thereon or thereunder of poles, wires, pipes or other
equipment used in the operation of the taxpayers' business. (Ord. 0-25-73-E, 9-
2-1975)
3-4-4-5: PAYMENT OF TAX:
On or before the last day of every month of the calendar year, each taxpayer
shall make a return to the city treasurer for a corresponding one month period,
stating:
   (A)   His name.
   (B)   His principal place of business.
   (C)   His gross receipts during that month upon the basis of which tax is
imposed.
   (D)   Amount of tax.
   (E)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time of making
such return, pay to the city treasurer, the amount of tax herein imposed;
provided, that in connection with any return the taxpayer may, if he so elects,
report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of business subject to
the tax during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of any
amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of late payments based upon
any differences between such billings and the taxable gross receipts. (Ord. 0-
14-82, 5-17-1982)
3-4-4-6: TAX PAID IN ERROR, RECOVERY:
   (A)   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not
due under the provisions of this section
3-4-4, whether as the result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such
amount shall be credited against any tax due, or to become due, under this
section from the taxpayer who made the erroneous payment; provided, that no
amounts erroneously paid more than three (3) years prior to the filing of a
claim therefor shall be so credited.
   (B)   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of
this section
3-4-4 shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such
amount. (Ord. 0-30-09, 10-5-2009)
3-4-4-7: FAILURE TO MAKE RETURN, PAY TAX:
Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent return, or
who wilfully violates any other provision of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and in
addition shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of tax due. (Ord. 0-
25-73-E, 9-2-1975)
3-4-5: AUTOMOBILE RENTING OCCUPATION TAX:
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of renting
automobiles in this city at the rate of one percent (1%) of the gross receipts
from such sales made in the course of such business while this section is in
effect, in accordance with the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-
11-7.
Every such person engaged in such business in the city shall file on or before
the last day of each calendar month, the report to the state department of
revenue required by sections 2 and 3 of "an act in relation to a tax upon
persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property to
purchasers for use or consumption" approved June 29, 1933, as amended.
At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the state department
of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the renting of
automobiles during the preceding month. (Ord. 0-07-82, 3-15-1982, eff. 6-1-
1982)
3-4-6: AUTOMOBILE RENTING USE TAX:
A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of using in this city an automobile
which is rented from a renter outside Illinois and which is titled or
registered with an agency of this state's government in this city at the rate
of one percent (1%) of the rental price of such automobile while this section
is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/8-11-8.
Every such person engaged in such business in the city shall file on or before
the last day of each calendar month, the report to the state department of
revenue required by sections 2 and 3 of "an act in relation to a tax upon
persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property to
purchasers for use or consumption" approved June 29, 1993, as amended.
The tax provided for in this code shall be collected from the persons whose
Illinois address for titling or registration purposes is given as being in this
city. (Ord. 0-07-82, 3-15-1982, eff. 6-1-1982)
3-4-7: AMUSEMENT TAX:
3-4-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this section
3-4-7, the following definitions shall apply:
AMUSEMENT: Any and all participatory, spectator and exhibitive entertainments,
including, but not limited to, the following activities: any theatrical,
dramatic, musical or spectator performance; motion picture show; carnival;
amusement park rides; circuses; rodeos; athletic contests; sports or games,
including boxing, wrestling, tennis, racquetball, handball, golf, billiards and
pool games; video movies; video games; pinball games; including the giving of
lessons or demonstrations of any of the above described activities
characterized as amusements under this section.
GROSS RECEIPTS: All fees or charges received in the form of fees or charges for
admission to any facility and/or use or rental of any facility or equipment for
the purpose of witnessing, participating in, or utilizing any amusement,
regardless of whether such fees or charges are characterized as admission fees,
membership fees, use charges, rental or service charges, excluding golf cart
rentals. Gross receipts shall be exclusive of any tax imposed by the United
States government, the state of Illinois, or any other governmental unit. A fee
or charge which entitles the patrons in any amusement operated within the
corporate limits of the city to bona fide services in addition to or unrelated
to the witnessing or participating in the amusement shall not be subject to the
tax provided for in this section, except however:
   (A)   Where a fee or charge is comprised of identifiable components,
packages or tiers, the tax provided for herein shall be imposed on any such
components, packages or tiers which provide solely for admission to any
facility and/or the use of any facility or equipment for the purposes of
witnessing or participating in any amusement.
   (B)   Where a single fee or charge for admission to any facility and/or the
use of any facility or equipment for the purpose of witnessing or participating
in any amusement also entitles the patron of the amusement to the incidental
use of parking, restaurant, bar, refreshment, locker room, changing room,
washroom and/or shower facilities or services, the tax provided for herein
shall be imposed on such fee or charge, provided the predominant activity of
such facility is an amusement.
PERSON: Includes any individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint venture corporation, but shall not include governmental entities
or not for profit corporations.
VIDEO MOVIE: Videotape or videodisk copy of a motion picture film, television
show, or other similar exhibition, generally offered for sale or rental to
customers.
(Ord. 0-67-92, 12-21-1992; amd. Ord. O-14-23, 9-18-2023)
3-4-7-2: TAX; AMOUNT:
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons operating amusements and upon
persons operating places of amusement within the corporate limits of the city
in an amount equal to three percent (3%) of the gross receipts collected in the
form of fees or charges for admission to any facility and/or the use of any
facility or equipment for the purpose of witnessing or participating in any
amusement, irrespective of whether such fees or charges are characterized as
admission fees, membership fees, service or use charges or rent. "Gross
receipts", as defined herein, shall be exclusive of any tax imposed by the
United States government, the state of Illinois or any other governmental unit.
   (B)   As distinguished from private clubs operated on a not for profit
basis, the persons taxed hereunder shall be those operating places of amusement
as a business for profit, irrespective of whether such amusement is offered
generally to the public or requires a membership as a precondition to
participation or observation of the amusement. (Ord. 0-67-92, 12-21-1992)
3-4-7-3: TIME OF PAYMENT:
The tax imposed herein shall be due and payable on the twenty fifth day of the
month following the preceding calendar month during which the gross receipts
were received. The tax shall be paid to and collected by the city clerk on
forms provided by the city. (Ord. 0-67-92, 12-21-1992)
3-4-7-4: BOOKS AND RECORDS; SALE OR TRANSFER OF AMUSEMENT; NOTICE; MAINTENANCE
OF RECORDS; FINAL AUDIT:
   (A)   Each person required to pay the tax provided for hereunder shall,
either personally or through his authorized agents, maintain complete books and
records covering the operation of the amusement so taxed, indicating therein
all receipts from the operation of said business, as herein defined. Such books
and records shall be maintained on the premises wherein the amusement is so
located and shall be subject to inspection by the city or its authorized agents
at all reasonable times.
   (B)   Upon completion of any final audit, the books and records so
maintained may be removed from the corporate limits of the city prior to the
expiration of the six (6) month period provided for hereinabove, with the prior
written approval of the city administrator. (Ord. 0-67-92, 12-21-1992)
3-4-7-5: EXEMPTIONS:
Any person liable for the payment of the amusement tax provided for in this
section shall be exempt from the payment of any municipal license fee required
under this code directly and specifically related to the activities
constituting the amusement tax. (Ord. 0-67-92, 12-21-1992)
3-4-7-6: REPORTS:
On or before the twenty fifth day of each month, each person liable for the
payment of a tax hereunder shall file with the city clerk a written report in
such form as the clerk may from time to time provide, stating the gross
receipts collected during the preceding month in the form of fees or charges as
herein defined. (Ord. 0-67-92, 12-21-1992)
3-4-7-7: PENALTY:
Any person who shall fail or refuse to pay any required tax, or who shall fail
to complete or allow the inspection of any books and records required herein,
or who shall fail to file the written report of the gross receipts collected
during the preceding month, or who shall wilfully and knowingly maintain false
books or falsely report the gross receipts taxed hereunder or shall otherwise
violate any term of this section shall be liable for the penalty and fines
provided for in section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition, if any violation is not corrected within ten
(10) days after written notice from the city clerk of any violation, the person
responsible for the operation of the amusement with respect to which the
violation occurs may be prohibited from operating same for a period of thirty
(30) days. In addition, the city may bring legal action to compel an accounting
for, and payment of, all taxes required to be paid over pursuant to this
section. (Ord. 0-67-92, 12-21-1992)
   (A)   Late Payment Penalty: If the tax imposed herein is not paid when due,
a late payment penalty equal to three percent (3%) of the unpaid tax shall be
added for each month, or any portion thereof, that such tax remains unpaid or
underpaid and the total of such late payment penalty shall be paid along with
the tax imposed herein. (Ord. 0-28-16, 9-6-2016)
3-4-8: HOTEL/MOTEL TAX:
3-4-8-1: GENERAL:
This section shall be known and cited as the CITY OF DARIEN HOTEL/MOTEL TAX
ORDINANCE. The tax imposed by this section shall be known as the "Darien hotel/
motel tax" and is imposed in addition to all other taxes imposed by the city,
the state, or any other municipal corporation or political subdivision thereof.
(Ord. 0-44-97, 12-1-1997)
3-4-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this section
3-4-8, the following definitions shall apply:
HOTEL/MOTEL: Any building or buildings in which the public may, for a
consideration, obtain living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations.
The term includes inns, motels, tourist homes or courts, lodging houses,
rooming houses and apartment houses.
OCCUPANCY: The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of any
room or rooms in a hotel for any purpose, or the right to the use or possession
of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use
and possession of the room or rooms.
OPERATOR: Any person operating a hotel/motel.
PERMANENT RESIDENT: Any person who occupies or has the right to occupy any room
or rooms, regardless of whether or not it is the same room or rooms, in a hotel
for at least thirty (30) consecutive days.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint adventure, public or private corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, executor, trustee, guardian or other representative
appointed by order of any court.
RENT/RENTAL: The consideration received for occupancy, valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and
property or services of any kind or nature.
ROOM/ROOMS: Any living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations. (Ord.
0-44-97, 12-1-1997)
3-4-8-3: TAX; AMOUNT:
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the city in the
business of renting, leasing or letting rooms in a hotel/motel, in an amount
equal to five percent (5%) of the gross rental receipts from such renting,
leasing or letting of each hotel or motel room rented for each twenty four (24)
hour period or any portion thereof for which a daily room charge is made. The
gross rental receipts from such renting, leasing or letting shall exclude the
proceeds of such renting, leasing or letting to permanent residents, as herein
defined, of that hotel or motel.
   (B)   Persons subject to the tax imposed pursuant to this section may
reimburse themselves for their tax liability for such tax by separately stating
such tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with the state tax imposed under "the hotel operators'
occupation tax act", 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 145/1 et seq.
   (C)   The tax herein levied shall be paid in addition to any and all other
taxes and charges.
   (D)   The taxes imposed by this section shall be expended by the city solely
to promote tourism and conventions within the city or otherwise to attract
nonresident overnight visitors to the city. No funds received shall be used to
advertise for or otherwise promote new competition in the hotel/motel business.
(Ord. 0-44-97, 12-1-1997)
3-4-8-4: TIME OF PAYMENT:
The tax imposed herein shall be due and payable on the twenty fifth day of the
month following the preceding calendar month during which the gross receipts
were received. The tax shall be paid to and collected by the city clerk on
forms provided by the city. (Ord. 0-44-97, 12-1-1997)
3-4-8-5: BOOKS AND RECORDS; INSPECTION; CONTENT:
   (A)   Each person required to pay the tax provided for hereunder shall,
personally or through his/her authorized agents, maintain complete books and
records covering the operation of the hotel/motel so taxed, indicating therein
all receipts from the operation of said hotel/motel. Such books and records
shall be maintained on the premises and shall be subject to inspection by the
city and its authorized agents at all reasonable times.
   (B)   No person shall prevent, hinder or interfere with the city and its
duly authorized agent in the discharge of his/her duties in the performance of
this section.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of every person required to pay the hotel/motel
tax to keep accurate and complete books and records, which records shall
include a daily sheet showing:
      1.   The number of hotel or motel rooms rented during the twenty four
(24) hour period, including multiple rentals of the same hotel/motel room where
such shall occur; and
      2.   The actual hotel or motel tax receipts collected for the date in
question. (Ord. 0-44-97, 12-1-1997)
3-4-8-6: REPORTS:
On or before the twenty fifth day of each month, each person liable for the
payment of a tax hereunder shall file with the city clerk a written report in
such form as the clerk may from time to time provide, stating the gross
receipts collected during the preceding month in the form of charges for the
rental, leasing or letting of hotel or motel rooms as herein defined. (Ord. 0-
44-97, 12-1-1997)
3-4-8-7: COLLECTION OF TAX:
Whenever any person shall fail to pay any tax as herein provided, the city
attorney shall, upon the request of the city administrator, bring or cause to
be brought an action to enforce the payment of the tax in behalf of the city in
any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 0-44-97, 12-1-1997)
3-4-8-8: SUSPENSION OF LICENSES; HEARING; APPEARANCE:
   (A)   If the mayor, after hearing held by or for him by a designated agent,
shall find that any person has wilfully avoided payment of the tax imposed by
this section
3-4-8, he/she may suspend or revoke all city licenses held by such tax evader.
The person liable for the payment of the hotel/motel tax shall have an
opportunity to be heard at such hearing, to be held not less than five (5) days
after notification of the time and place of the hearing. The notice shall be
addressed to such person at his/her last known place of business.
   (B)   Pending notice, hearing and finding, any license of which he/she may
be possessed may be temporarily suspended. Any suspension or revocation of any
license shall not release or discharge such person from his/her civil liability
for the payment of the tax nor from prosecution for such offense. (Ord. 0-44-
97, 12-1-1997)
3-4-8-9: PROCEEDS OF TAX AND FINES:
All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under this section
3-4-8, including penalties, shall be paid into the treasury of the city. (Ord.
0-44-97, 12-1-1997)
3-4-8-10: PENALTY:
Any person who shall fail or refuse to pay any required tax, or who shall fail
to complete or allow the inspection of any books and records required herein,
or who shall fail to file the written report of the gross receipts collected
during the preceding month, or who shall wilfully and knowingly maintain false
books or falsely report the gross receipts taxed hereunder or shall otherwise
violate any term of this section
3-4-8 shall be liable for the penalty and fines provided for in section
1-4-1 et seq., of this code. In addition, the city may bring legal action to
compel an accounting for, and payment of, all taxes required to be paid over to
the city pursuant to this section. (Ord. 0-44-97, 12-1-1997)
   (A)   Late Payment Penalty: If the tax imposed herein is not paid when due,
a late payment penalty equal to three percent (3%) of the unpaid tax shall be
added for each month, or any portion thereof, that such tax remains unpaid or
underpaid and the total of such late payment penalty shall be paid along with
the tax imposed herein. (Ord. 0-29-16, 9-6-2016)
3-4-9: MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC UTILITY TAX:
3-4-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this section
3-4-9, unless the context otherwise requires:
CITY: The city of Darien.
PERSON: Any natural, individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company,
municipal corporation, the state or any of its political subdivisions, any
state university created by statute, or a receiver, trustee, conservator or
other representative appointed by order of any court.
PERSON MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE: Any person having or
maintaining within this state, directly or by a subsidiary or other affiliate,
an office, generation, facility, distribution facility, transmission facility,
sales office or other place of business, or any employee, agent, or other
representative operating within this state under the authority of the person or
its subsidiary or other affiliate, irrespective of whether such place of
business or agent or other representative is located in this state permanently
or temporarily, or whether such person, subsidiary or other affiliate is
licensed or qualified to do business in this state.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: Any acquisition of electricity by a purchaser for the
purposes of use or consumption, and not for resale, but shall not include the
use of electricity by a public utility, as defined in section
8-11-2 of the Illinois municipal code 1 , directly in the generation,
production, transmission, delivery or sale of electricity.
PURCHASER: Any person who uses or consumes, within the corporate limits of the
city, electricity acquired in a purchase at retail.
TAX COLLECTOR: The person delivering electricity to the purchaser. (Ord. 0-14-
98, 8-17-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
3-4-9-2: TAX IMPOSED:
   (A)   Tax Rate: Pursuant to section
8-11-2 of the Illinois municipal code and all other applicable authority, a tax
is imposed upon the privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in a
purchase at retail and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the city
at the following rates, calculated on a monthly basis for each purchaser as
follows:
Kilowatt Hours Used Or Consumed In A Month Tax  (Per Kilowatt Hour)
Kilowatt Hours Used Or Consumed In A Month Tax  (Per Kilowatt Hour)
For the first 2,000 kWh                    $0.61
For the next 48,000 kWh                    0.40
For the next 50,000 kWh                    0.36
For the next 400,000 kWh                   0.35
For the next 500,000 kWh                   0.34
For the next 2,000,000 kWh                 0.32
For the next 2,000,000 kWh                 0.315
For the next 5,000,000 kWh                 0.31
For the next 10,000,000 kWh                0.305
In excess of 20,000,000 kWh                0.30
 
   (B)   Tax In Addition To Other Levies, Fees And Taxes: The tax is in
addition to all taxes, fees and other revenue measures imposed by the city, the
state or any other political subdivision of the state.
   (C)   Validity: Notwithstanding any other provision of this section
3-4-9, the tax shall not be imposed if and to the extent that imposition or
collection of the tax would violate the constitution or statutes of the United
States or the constitution of the state.
   (D)   Tax Rate Effective To October 31, 2009: The tax imposed pursuant to
ordinance 0-14-98 with respect to the use or consumption of electricity by
residential customers beginning with the first bill issued on or after
September 1, 1998; and with respect to the use or consumption of electricity by
nonresidential customers beginning with the first bill issued to such customers
for delivery services in accordance with section 16-104 of the public utilities
act, or the first bill issued to such customers on or after January 1, 2001,
whichever issuance occurs sooner, shall be applicable with respect to bills
issued on or before October 31, 2009, with respect to the use or consumption of
electricity by residential and nonresidential customers and shall not be
applicable thereafter and upon the effectiveness of subsection (E) of this
section.
   (E)   Tax Rate Effective On And After November 1, 2009: The tax imposed
pursuant to subsection (A) of this section shall begin with the first bill
issued on or after November 1, 2009, with respect to the use or consumption of
electricity by residential and nonresidential customers and shall be applicable
thereafter. (Ord. 0-29-09, 10-5-2009)
3-4-9-3: COLLECTION OF TAX:
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of section
3-4-9-5 of this chapter, regarding the delivery of electricity to resellers,
the tax imposed under this section
3-4-9, shall be collected from purchasers by the person maintaining a place of
business in this state who delivers electricity to such purchasers. This tax
shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to the person who delivers the
electricity to the purchaser and is recoverable at the same time and in the
same manner as the original charge for delivering the electricity.
   (B)   Any tax required to be collected by this section
3-4-9, and any tax in fact collected, shall constitute a debt owed to the city
by the person delivering the electricity, provided, that the person delivering
electricity shall be allowed credit for such tax related to deliveries of
electricity, the charges for which are written off as uncollectible, and
provided further, that if such charges are thereafter collected, the delivering
supplier shall be obligated to remit such tax.
   (C)   Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the
purchaser by adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the
electricity. Persons delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to
such gross charge an amount equal to three percent (3%) of the tax they collect
to reimburse them for their expenses incurred in keeping records, billing
customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data
to the city upon request. For the purposes of this section
3-4-9, any partial payment of a billed amount not specifically identified by
the purchaser shall be deemed to be for the delivery of electricity. (Ord. 0-
14-98, 8-17-1998)
3-4-9-4: TAX REMITTANCE AND RETURN:
   (A)   Each person required by section
3-4-9-3 of this chapter to collect the tax imposed pursuant to subsection
3-4-9-2(A) of this chapter shall file a return with the city on the last day of
the month following each month covered during which the tax imposed by
subsection
3-4-9-2(A) of this chapter is collected or is required to be collected under
this section
3-4-9. The return shall state:
      1.   The person's name.
      2.   The address of the person's principal place of business in the state
or residence if the person filing the return is a natural person.
      3.   The month for which the return is being filed.
      4.   The total number of kilowatt hours of electricity used or consumed
in each of the categories set forth in subsection
3-4-9-2(A) of this chapter, for which the person was required to collect
payment of the imposed tax by subsection
3-4-9-2(A) of this chapter from purchasers during the month covered by the
return, and if different, the total number of kilowatt hours of electricity
used or consumed in each of the categories set forth in subsection
3-4-9-2(A) of this chapter, for which the person in fact collected payment from
purchasers of the tax imposed by subsection
3-4-9-2(A) of this chapter.
      5.   The amount of the tax imposed by subsection
3-4-9-2(A) of this chapter, which was collected, and the amount of the tax
being remitted to the city with the return.
      6.   Such other reasonable and related information as the city may
require.
   (B)   Each person filing a return provided for in this section
3-4-9 shall, at the time the return is filed, remit and pay over to the city
the amount of the tax imposed pursuant to subsection
3-4-9-2(A) of this chapter which such person collected during the month for
which the return is being filed. Such person shall also remit and pay over to
the city, at the time the return is filed, any other amounts of the tax imposed
pursuant to subsection
3-4-9-2(A) of this chapter which, as of the end of the month for which the
return is being filed, otherwise constituted a debt owed to the city by the
person pursuant to subsection
3-4-9-3(B) of this chapter.
   (C)   The city administrator may prescribe the form of the return or
authorize the use of a form for the return required to be filed by this section
3-4-9.
   (D)   If the person delivering electricity to a purchaser fails to collect
the tax imposed pursuant to subsection
3-4-9-2(A) of this chapter from the purchaser, the purchaser shall file a
purchaser's tax return with the city containing the information set forth in
subsection (A)1 through (A)3 of this section. The purchaser's tax return shall
also state the amount of electricity used or consumed during the month for
which the return is being filed according to the categories set forth in
subsection
3-4-9-2(A) of this chapter and the amount of the tax imposed on the electricity
used or consumed by the purchaser during the month for which the return is
being filed. Payment of the amount of the tax imposed shall be made to the city
at the time the purchaser's tax return is filed. The purchaser's tax return
shall be filed no later than the last day of the month following the month for
which the return is being made. (Ord. 0-14-98, 8-17-1998)
3-4-9-5: RESALES:
   (A)   Resale Numbers: Electricity that is delivered to a person in this city
shall be considered to be for use and consumption by that person unless the
person receiving the electricity has an active resale number issued by the city
and furnishes that number to the person who delivers the electricity and
certifies to that person that the sale is either entirely or partially
nontaxable as a sale for resale.
   (B)   Application: If a person who receives electricity in the city claims
to be an authorized reseller of electricity, that person shall apply to the
city for a resale number. The applicant shall state facts showing why it is not
liable for the tax imposed by this section
3-4-9, on any purchases of electricity and shall furnish such additional
information as the city may reasonably require.
   (C)   Assignment, Certification: Upon approval of the application, the city
shall assign a resale number to the applicant and shall certify the number to
the applicant.
   (D)   Cancellation: The city may cancel the resale number of any person if
the person fails to pay any tax payable under this section
3-4-9 for electricity used or consumed by the person, or if the number: 1) was
obtained through misrepresentation, or 2) is no longer necessary because the
person has discontinued making resales.
   (E)   Taxation:
      1.   If a reseller has acquired electricity partly for use or consumption
and partly for resale, the reseller shall pay the tax imposed by this section
3-4-9, directly to the city pursuant to subsection
3-4-9-3(B) of this chapter on the amount of electricity that the reseller uses
or consumes, and shall collect the tax pursuant to section
3-4-9-3 of this chapter, and remit the tax pursuant to subsection
3-4-9-4(A) of this chapter, on the amount of electricity delivered by the
reseller to a purchaser.
      2.   Any person who delivers electricity to a reseller having an active
resale number and complying with all other conditions of this section
3-4-9 shall be excused from collecting and remitting the tax on any portion of
the electricity delivered to the reseller; provided that the person reports to
the city the total amount of electricity delivered to the reseller, and such
other information that the city may reasonably require. (Ord. 0-14-98, 8-17-
1998)
3-4-9-6: BOOKS AND RECORDS:
Every person required by section
3-4-9-3 of this chapter, to collect the tax imposed by subsection
3-4-9-2(A) of this chapter, and each purchaser required by subsection
3-4-9-4(D) of this chapter to file a purchaser's tax return shall keep accurate
books and records of its business or activity, including contemporaneous books
and records denoting the transactions that gave rise, or may have given rise,
to any tax liability under this section
3-4-9. The books and records shall be subject to and available for inspection
at all times during business hours of the day. (Ord. 0-14-98, 8-17-1998)
3-4-9-7: CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
Notwithstanding any other provision in this section
3-4-9, in order to permit sound fiscal planning and budgeting by the city, no
person shall be entitled to a refund of, or credit for, a tax imposed under
this section
3-4-9, unless the person files a claim for refund or credit within one year
after the date on which the tax was paid or remitted to the city. (Ord. 0-14-
98, 8-17-1998)
3-4-9-8: FAILURE TO MAKE RETURN, PAY TAX:
Any person who fails to file a return and remit payment of the tax imposed
pursuant to subsection
3-4-9-2(A) of this chapter as required by section
3-4-9-4 of this chapter, or who makes a fraudulent return, or who wilfully
violates any other provision of this section
3-4-9, is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than the maximum penalty
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and in addition shall be liable in a civil action for the
amount of tax due. Each day that a violation continues to exist or occur shall
constitute a separate offense for which a separate fine may be imposed. (Ord.
0-14-98, 8-17-1998)
3-4-9-9: ACTION TO RECOVER AMOUNT DUE:
No action to recover any amount due under the provisions of this section
3-4-9, shall be commenced more than five (5) years after the due date of such
amount. (Ord. 0-14-98, 8-17-1998)
3-4-10: FOOD AND BEVERAGE TAX:
3-4-10-1: GENERAL:
This section
3-4-10 shall be known and cited as the CITY OF DARIEN FOOD AND BEVERAGE TAX
ORDINANCE. The tax imposed by this section
3-4-10 shall be known as the "Darien food and beverage tax" and is imposed in
addition to all other taxes imposed by the city of Darien, the state of
Illinois, or any other municipal corporation or political subdivision thereof.
(Ord. 0-09-16, 3-21-2016)
3-4-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this section
3-4-10, the following definitions shall apply:
BEVERAGES: All alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages.
OWNER: Any person having an ownership interest in or conducting the operation
of a retail food facility.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint venture, public or private corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, executor, trustee, guardian or other representative
appointed by order of court, or other legally recognized entity.
PREPARED FOOD: Any and all commodities, whether solid, semisolid, or liquid
(including both alcoholic and nonalcoholic liquid) used or intended to be used
for human consumption, enjoyment or nourishment of the human body, whether
simple compound or mixed and which has been prepared for immediate consumption.
PURCHASE/SALE AT RETAIL: To obtain food, beverages and alcoholic liquor for use
or consumption in exchange for a consideration, whether in the form of money,
credits, barter or any other nature, and not for resale, with said transaction
being subject to either the Illinois retailers' occupation tax 1  or the
Illinois service occupation tax 2 .
RETAIL FOOD FACILITY: Includes any place at which food items or beverages are
served and/or prepared for immediate consumption by a business which provides
for on premises consumption of said food or beverages, including, but not
limited to, those establishments commonly called an inn, restaurant, eating
place, drive-in restaurant, bakery, buffet, cafeteria, cafe, lunch counter,
fast food outlet, catering service, coffee shop, diner, sandwich shop, soda
fountain, tavern, bar, cocktail lounge, soft drink parlor, ice cream parlor,
tearoom, delicatessen, banquet facility, movie theater, hotel, motel or club.
Where a facility is only partially intended to permit on site consumption of
food (such as a grocery store with a prepared food service area), only that
portion of the facility selling prepared food shall be considered a retail food
facility.
Includes all food and beverage sales by vendors at community wide festivals and
events.
RETAIL LIQUOR FACILITY: Any establishment licensed under chapter 3 of this
title with respect to the sale of liquor where the liquor sold is intended to
be consumed on the premises.
RETAILER: A person who sells, or offers for sale, food, beverages and alcoholic
liquor for use or consumption and not for resale. (Ord. 0-09-16, 3-21-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
2 2. 35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.
3-4-10-3: TAX IMPOSED:
   (A)   Commencing on May 1, 2016, a tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege
of the retail purchase of alcoholic liquor, food or beverages at any "retail
food facility" or "retail liquor facility", as herein defined, within the city
of Darien, at the rate of one and one-fourth percent (1.25%) of the purchase
price of such alcoholic liquor, food or beverage, the ultimate incidence of and
liability for payment of which shall be borne by the purchaser thereof.
   (B)   The tax herein levied shall be paid in addition to any and all other
taxes and charges. (Ord. 0-09-16, 3-21-2016)
3-4-10-4: EXEMPTIONS:
   (A)   All sales of food and beverages which are exempt from tax under the
provisions of the retailers' occupation tax 1 , and as amended from time to
time.
   (B)   The food and beverage tax shall not be applied to the sale or purchase
of "undispensed soft drinks", meaning any complete, finished, ready to use,
nonalcoholic drink, whether carbonated or not, including, but not limited to,
soda water, cola, fruit juice, vegetable juice, carbonated water, and all other
preparations commonly known as soft drinks of whatever kind or description that
are contained in any closed or sealed bottle, can, carton, or container,
regardless of size. Soft drinks as defined herein, does not include coffee,
tea, noncarbonated water, infant formula, milk or milk products as defined in
the grade A pasteurized milk and milk products act 2  or drinks containing
fifty percent (50%) or more natural fruit or vegetable juice. (Ord. 0-09-16, 3-
21-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
2 2. 410 ILCS 635/1 et seq.
3-4-10-5: COLLECTION OF TAXES BY RETAILER:
The owner and operator of each retail food facility and each retail liquor
facility within the city shall jointly and severally have the duty to collect
and account for said tax(es) from each purchaser at the time the consideration
for such purchase is paid. (Ord. 0-09-16, 3-21-2016)
3-4-10-6: BOOKS AND RECORDS; INSPECTIONS; CONTENT:
   (A)   Each person required to pay the tax provided for hereunder shall,
personally or through his/her authorized agents, maintain complete books and
records covering the operation of the retail food facility and retail liquor
facility so taxed, indicating therein all receipts from the operation of said
facilities. Said records shall include the gross receipts for sales of food and
beverage and alcoholic liquor and taxes collected each day pursuant to the food
and beverage tax, purchase orders, invoices and receipts, and other documents
listing, summarizing or pertaining to the transactions that gave rise, or may
have given rise, to the tax liability or exemption that may be claimed and
copies of the Illinois retailers' occupation tax and Illinois service
occupation tax returns filed with the Illinois department of revenue (IDOR).
Such books shall be maintained on the premises and shall be subject to
inspection by the city and its duly authorized agents at all reasonable hours
during business hours of the day.
   (B)   No person shall prevent, hinder or interfere with the city and its
duly authorized agent(s) in the discharge of his/her duties in the performance
of this section
3-4-10. (Ord. 0-09-16, 3-21-2016)
3-4-10-7: FILING OF RETURN:
The owner and the operator of each retail food facility and retail liquor
facility within the city shall jointly and severally file a sworn return with
the city treasurer for each such facility. Said return shall be prepared and
submitted on forms prescribed by the city. Said return shall be filed by the
filing date or postmarked on the filing date (either of which shall constitute
timely payment), and at the same time and intervals and frequencies as the
retailers' occupational tax form, form ST-1, is due to be filed with IDOR. Said
return shall also be accompanied by payment to the city of all taxes imposed by
this section
3-4-10 which are due and owing for the period covered by said return. Said
return shall also be accompanied with a copy of the return filed with IDOR
covering the same reporting period. (Ord. 0-09-16, 3-21-2016)
3-4-10-8: LATE PAYMENT PENALTY:
   (A)   If the tax imposed herein is not paid when due, a late payment penalty
equal to three percent (3%) of the unpaid tax shall be added for each month, or
any portion thereof, that such tax remains unpaid or underpaid and the total of
such late payment penalty shall be paid along with the tax imposed herein.
   (B)   In addition to the three percent (3%) penalty imposed above, any
vendor participating in community festivals that are subject to the food and
beverage tax, whose tax(es) is not timely filed or paid, will be denied
necessary permits to participate in any future community festivals. (Ord. 0-09-
16, 3-21-2016)
3-4-10-9: TRANSMITTAL OF EXCESS TAX COLLECTION:
If any person collects an amount upon a sale not subject to the tax imposed
herein, but which amount is purported to be the collection of said tax, or if a
person collects an amount upon a sale greater than the amount of the tax so
imposed herein and does not for any reason return the same to the purchaser who
paid the same before filing the return for the period in which such occurred,
said person shall account for and pay over those amounts to the city along with
the tax properly collected. (Ord. 0-09-16, 3-21-2016)
3-4-10-10: REGISTRATION:
Every owner and operator of any retail food facility and retail liquor facility
within the city shall register with the city treasurer no later than May 1,
2016, or the date of becoming such an owner and operator, whichever is later.
(Ord. 0-09-16, 3-21-2016)
3-4-10-11: COLLECTION OF TAX:
Whenever any person shall fail to pay any tax as herein provided, the city
attorney shall, upon request of the city administrator, bring, or cause to be
brought, an action to enforce the payment of the tax(es) on behalf of the city
in any court having competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 0-09-16, 3-21-2016)
3-4-10-12: SUSPENSION OF LICENSES; HEARING; APPEARANCE:
   (A)   If the mayor, after hearing held by or for him/her by a designated
agent, shall find that any person has wilfully avoided payment of the tax
imposed by this section
3-4-10, the mayor or designated agent may suspend or revoke all city licenses
held by such tax evader. The person liable for the payment of the food and
beverage tax shall have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing to be held
not less than five (5) days after notification of the time and place of the
hearing. The notice shall be addressed to such person at his/her last known
place of business.
   (B)   Pending notice, hearing and finding, any license possessed by the
person may be temporarily suspended. Any suspension or revocation of any
license shall not release or discharge such person from his/her civil liability
for the payment of the tax nor from prosecution for such offense. (Ord. 0-09-
16, 3-21-2016)
3-4-10-13: PROCEEDS OF TAX AND FINES:
All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax imposed under this
section
3-4-10, including penalties, shall be paid into the treasury of the city. (Ord.
0-09-16, 3-21-2016)
3-4-10-14: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting
or refusing to comply with any of the provisions of this section
3-4-10, shall be punished by a fine of not less than two hundred dollars
($200.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for the first
offense, and not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) nor more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for the second and each subsequent offense in any
one hundred eighty (180) day period.
   (B)   Each day upon which a person shall continue any violation of this
section
3-4-10, or permit any such violation to exist after notification thereof, shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   Any person subjected to the penalties provided for in this section,
shall not be discharged or released from the payment of any tax due hereunder.
(Ord. 0-09-16, 3-21-2016)
3-4-10-15: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this section
3-4-10, the application of any provision of this section
3-4-10, or the imposition of this tax on any particular transaction, person or
item of tangible personal property is held unconstitutional or otherwise
invalid, such occurrence shall not affect other provisions of this section
3-4-10 or their application to other transactions, persons or items of tangible
personal property. It is the express intention of the corporate authorities
that each unconstitutional or invalid provision, or application of such
provision, is severable, unless otherwise provided by this section
3-4-10. It is also the express intention of the corporate authorities that if
any exemption contained in this section
3-4-10 is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, then this section
3-4-10 shall be applied as if such exemption had not been enacted. (Ord. 0-09-
16, 3-21-2016)
3-4-11: MOTOR VEHICLE FUEL TAX:
3-4-11-1: GENERAL:
This section
3-4-11 shall be known and cited as the CITY OF DARIEN MOTOR VEHICLE FUEL TAX
ORDINANCE. The tax imposed by this section
3-4-11 shall be known as the "Darien motor vehicle fuel tax" and is imposed in
addition to all other taxes imposed by the city of Darien, state of Illinois,
or any other municipal corporation or political subdivision thereof. (Ord. 0-
10-16, 3-21-2016)
3-4-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this section
3-4-11, the following definitions shall apply:
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any machine or device in, upon or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a street, road, highway or
otherwise upon land or in or upon water. Motor vehicle includes, without
limitation, automobiles, trucks, buses, motorcycles and boats.
MOTOR VEHICLE FUEL: Any volatile and inflammable liquid or gas produced,
blended or compounded for the purpose of or which is suitable for operating or
which is used in propelling a motor vehicle. Motor fuel includes, without
limitation, compressed natural gas, diesel fuel, motor benzol, motor benzene,
propane gas fuel, kerosene and special fuel as defined in the Illinois motor
fuel tax act, 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 505/1 et al., and as amended from
time to time.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
corporation, joint venture, joint stock company, public or private corporation,
limited liability company, or a receiver, executor, trustee, guardian or other
representative appointed by order of court.
RETAIL MOTOR VEHICLE FUEL DEALER/RETAIL DEALER: Any person, firm or corporation
engaged in the business of selling motor vehicle fuel at retail, and not for
resale.
SALE AT RETAIL: Any sale to a person for that person's use or consumption and
not for resale to another.
SALE/PURCHASE: Any transfer of ownership or title or both, any exchange or any
barter whether conditional or otherwise, in any manner or by any means
whatsoever for consideration. (Ord. 0-10-16, 3-21-2016)
3-4-11-3: TAX IMPOSED:
   (A)   Commencing on May 1, 2016, a tax is hereby imposed upon the retail
purchase, in the city of Darien, of motor vehicle fuel at the rate of two cents
($0.02) per gallon or fraction thereof. The ultimate incidence of and liability
for payment of the tax shall be upon the purchaser of the motor vehicle fuel.
Nothing in this section
3-4-11 shall be construed to impose a tax upon the occupation of selling or
distributing motor vehicle fuel.
   (B)   This tax shall be in addition to any and all other taxes and charges,
but such other taxes and charges shall not be construed as part of the purchase
price upon which the tax imposed herein is levied.
   (C)   It shall be a violation of this section
3-4-11 for any retail dealer to fail to add this tax to the retail price of
motor vehicle fuel or to absorb the tax. (Ord. 0-10-16, 3-21-2016)
3-4-11-4: COLLECTION OF TAX AND REPORT TRANSMITTAL:
   (A)   Each retail motor vehicle fuel dealer within the city limits shall
have the duty to collect the motor vehicle fuel tax from each purchaser and to
pay it over to the city treasurer, along with an accounting therefor, on return
forms provided by the city.
   (B)   The return and tax payment shall be filed with the city treasurer no
later than the twentieth day of the calendar month following the month of
collection. (Ord. 0-10-16, 3-21-2016)
3-4-11-5: REGISTRATION AND MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS:
   (A)   Each retail motor vehicle fuel dealer shall register with the city on
forms provided by the city no later than May 1, 2016, or within thirty (30)
days after the commencement of such business, whichever is later.
   (B)   Every retail motor vehicle fuel dealer required to collect and remit
the tax imposed herein shall keep accurate and complete books and records,
including the maintenance of all invoices and other source documents, including
the gross receipts for the sale of motor vehicle fuel and the taxes collected
from the purchaser thereof. All books and records shall be subject to
inspection by the city and its duly authorized agents and employees, at all
times during business hours of the day. (Ord. 0-10-16, 3-21-2016)
3-4-11-6: SALES PRESUMED TAXABLE; BURDEN OF PROOF:
It shall be presumed that all sales of motor vehicle fuel in the city are
subject to tax under this section
3-4-11 until the contrary is established. The burden of proving that a sale is
not taxable hereunder shall be upon the retail dealer or purchaser so claiming.
(Ord. 0-10-16, 3-21-2016)
3-4-11-7: LATE PAYMENT PENALTY:
If the tax imposed herein is not paid when due, a late payment penalty equal to
three percent (3%) of the unpaid tax shall be added for each month, or portion
thereof, that such tax remains unpaid or underpaid and the total of such late
payment penalty shall be paid along with the tax imposed herein. (Ord. 0-10-16,
3-21-2016)
3-4-11-8: COLLECTION OF TAX:
When any retail dealer shall fail to pay any tax as herein provided, the city
attorney shall, upon request of the city administrator, bring, or cause to be
brought, an action to enforce the payment of the tax(es) on behalf of the city
in any court having competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 0-10-16, 3-21-2016)
3-4-11-9: PROCEEDS OF TAX AND FINES:
All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax imposed under this
section
3-4-11, including penalties, shall be paid to the treasury of the city. (Ord.
0-10-16, 3-21-2016)
3-4-11-10: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting
or refusing to comply with any of the provisions of this section
3-4-11, shall be punished by a fine of not less than two hundred dollars
($200.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for the first
offense, and not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) nor more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for the second and each subsequent offense in any
one hundred eighty (180) day period. This is in addition to any late penalty
payment for late payment, underpayment or nonpayment of any tax due as set
forth in section
3-4-11-7 of this chapter.
   (B)   Each day upon which a person shall continue any violation of this
section
3-4-11, or permit any such violation to exist after notification thereof, shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   Any person subjected to the penalties provided for in this section,
shall not be discharged or released from the payment of any tax due hereunder.
(Ord. 0-10-16, 3-21-2016)
3-4-11-11: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this section
3-4-11 or application thereof to any person or circumstance is held
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other
provisions or applications of this section
3-4-11 which can be given effect without the invalid application or provision,
and to this end each such invalid provision or invalid application of this
section
3-4-11 is severable, unless otherwise provided by this section
3-4-11. (Ord. 0-10-16, 3-21-2016)
3-4-12: CANNABIS SALES TAX:
3-4-12-1: RATE:
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of Medical
Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the city at the rate of three (3)
percent of the gross receipts from these sales made in the course of that
business.
(Ord. O-13-23, 8-21-2023)
3-4-12-2: TAX IMPOSITION:
The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of Sections 8-
11-22, of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-22).
(Ord. O-13-23, 8-21-2023)
CHAPTER 5
RAFFLE LICENSES
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: License Required
3-5-3: Eligibility
3-5-4: Administration
3-5-5: Time To Act
3-5-6: Powers, Duties
3-5-7: Classification Of Licenses, Fees, Duration
3-5-8: Conduct
3-5-9: Manager; Bond
3-5-10: Applications And Contents
3-5-11: Restrictions On Issuance
3-5-12: Disposition Of Fees
3-5-13: Record Keeping
3-5-14: Suspension Or Revocation Of Licenses
3-5-15: Construction
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined to mean:
CHARITABLE: An organization or institution organized and operated to benefit an
indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to those eligible for
benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.
EDUCATIONAL: An organization or institution organized and operated to provide
systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by methods common to
schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably in their scope and
intensity with the course of study presented in tax supported schools.
FRATERNAL: An organization of persons having a common interest, the primary
interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and to provide
assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the burdens of
government by caring for those who would otherwise be cared for by the
government.
LABOR: An organization composed of workers organized with the objective of
betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit and the
development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective occupations.
NET PROCEEDS: The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less reasonable
sums expended for prizes, local license fees and other reasonable operating
expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
NONPROFIT: An organization or institution organized and conducted on a not for
profit basis with no personal profit inuring to any one as a result of the
operation.
RAFFLE: A form of lottery, as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-2
(b), conducted by an organization in which:
   (A)   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance;
   (B)   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
RELIGIOUS: Any church, congregation, society or organization founded for the
purpose of religious worship.
VETERANS: An organization or association comprised of members of which
substantially all are individuals who are veterans or spouses, widows or
widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of
its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to
confer a public benefit. (Ord. 0-06-81, 3-16-1981)
3-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, firm or corporation shall conduct a raffle without first having
obtained a license, pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 0-06-81, 3-16-1981)
3-5-3: ELIGIBILITY:
Licenses shall be issued only to bona fide nonprofit charitable, educational,
religious, fraternal, veterans' or labor organizations which have been in
existence continuously for a period of five (5) years immediately prior to
their making application for a license and which have had a bona fide
membership engaged in carrying out their objectives during that time. (Ord. 0-
06-81, 3-16-1981)
3-5-4: ADMINISTRATION:
The mayor shall be the raffles commissioner and shall be charged with the
administration of the provisions of this chapter, and may appoint with the
advice and consent of the city council, any person to assist him in the
exercise of such power and responsibilities. The mayor and his assistant shall
receive no compensation for performing the powers and duties of such office.
(Ord. 0-06-81, 3-16-1981)
3-5-5: TIME TO ACT:
The raffles commissioner shall act on a license application within thirty (30)
days of the date of application. (Ord. 0-06-81, 3-16-1981)
3-5-6: POWERS, DUTIES:
The raffles commissioner shall have the following powers, functions and duties:
   (A)   To grant, suspend or revoke all licenses issued;
   (B)   To limit the aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise
awarded by a licensee in a single raffle;
   (C)   To limit the maximum retail value of each prize awarded by a licensee
in a single raffle;
   (D)   To limit the maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance
issued or sold;
   (E)   To limit the maximum number of days during which chances may be issued
or sold;
   (F)   To receive or cause to be received all local license fees and pay them
immediately to the city treasurer; and
   (G)   To receive complaints from any citizen of the city that any provision
of this chapter has been or is being violated, and to act upon such complaint
in the manner provided by law. (Ord. 0-06-81, 3-16-1981)
3-5-7: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES, FEES, DURATION:
   (A)   Class A License:
      1.   A class A license shall authorize the operation of a one time
raffle.
      2.   There shall be no fee charged for a class A license.
      3.   A class A license shall be valid for a one year period.
   (B)   Class B License:
      1.   A class B license shall authorize the operation of periodic raffles.
Such periodic raffles shall occur no more than once per week.
      2.   There shall be no fee charged for a class B license.
      3.   A class B license shall be valid for a one year period. (Ord. 0-30-
02, 9-16-2002)
3-5-8: CONDUCT:
The conducting of a raffle is subject to the following restrictions:
   (A)   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct that game.
   (B)   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization may
participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
   (C)   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating in
the management or operation of the raffle.
   (D)   A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the winning
chance or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed
under this chapter.
   (E)   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area specified on
the license and winning chances may be determined only at those locations
specified on the license.
   (F)   No person under the age of eighteen (18) years may participate in the
conducting of a raffle. A person under the age of eighteen (18) years may be
within the area where winning chances are being determined only when
accompanied by his parent or guardian. (Ord. 0-06-81, 3-16-1981)
3-5-9: MANAGER; BOND:
   (A)   Supervision: The operation of and the conduct of a raffle shall be
under the supervision of a single raffles' manager designated by the
organization.
   (B)   Amount Of Bond: The manager shall post a fidelity bond with the
Raffles Commissioner, naming the licensed organization as obligee. The amount
of such bond shall be determined by the Raffles Commissioner and be conditioned
upon the honesty of the manager in the performance of his duties.
   (C)   Cancellation: Terms of the bond shall provide that notice shall be
given in writing to the Raffles Commissioner not less than thirty (30) days
prior to its cancellation.
   (D)   Waiver Of Requirement: The City Council may waive this bond
requirement by including a waiver provision in the license issued to an
organization under this Chapter, provided that a license containing such waiver
provision shall be granted only by unanimous vote of the members of the
licensed organization. (Ord. 0-06-81, 3-16-1981)
3-5-10: APPLICATIONS AND CONTENTS:
The application for a license required by this Chapter shall contain the
following information:
   (A)   The area or areas within the City in which raffle chances will be sold
or issued;
   (B)   The time period during which raffle chances will be sold or issued;
   (C)   The time of determination of winning chances;
   (D)   The location or locations at which winning chances will be determined;
and
   (E)   A sworn statement attesting to the nonprofit character of the
prospective licensee organization signed by its presiding officer and
secretary.
In addition to the foregoing information, the application shall contain such
other and further information as the Raffles Commissioner may prescribe by rule
or regulation not inconsistent with law. (Ord. 0-06-81, 3-16-1981)
3-5-11: RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE:
No raffle license shall be issued to:
   (A)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
   (B)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
   (C)   Any person who is not of good moral character;
   (D)   Any firm or corporation in which a person as defined in subsection
(A), (B) or (C) of this Section has a proprietary, equitable or credit
interest, or in which such a person is active or employed;
   (E)   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection (A), (B) or
(C) of this Section is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated or
not; or
   (F)   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection (A), (B) or
(C) of this Section is to participate in the management or operation of a
"raffle" as defined in this Chapter. (Ord. 0-06-81, 3-16-1981)
3-5-12: DISPOSITION OF FEES:
All fees for licenses required by this Chapter shall be paid to the City Clerk
at the time of application and shall be immediately turned over to the
Treasurer. In the event the license applied for is denied, the fee shall be
returned to the applicant; if the license is granted, the fee shall be
deposited in the General Fund or in such other fund designated by the City
Council. (Ord. 0-06-81, 3-16-1981)
3-5-13: RECORD KEEPING:
   (A)   The Raffles Commissioner shall keep or cause to be kept a complete
record of all licenses required by this Chapter issued by him, and shall
forward a copy to the Chief of Police. The Raffles Commissioner shall inform
the Chief of Police from time to time of any changes and of the issuance,
revocation or suspension of any licenses.
   (B)   Each organization licensed to conduct a raffle shall keep records of
its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each single gathering or
occasion at which winning chances are determined. All deductions from gross
receipts shall be documented with receipts or other records indicating the
amount, a description of the purchased item or service or other reason for the
deduction, and the recipient. The distribution of net proceeds shall be
itemized as to payee, purpose, amount and date of payment.
   (C)   Gross receipts from the operation of a raffle program shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts, if licensed bingo games are also conducted by the same nonprofit
organization, and placed in a separate account. Each organization shall have
separate records of its raffles. The person who accounts for gross receipts,
expenses and net proceeds from the operation of a raffle shall not be the same
person who accounts for other revenues of the organization.
   (D)   Records required by this Chapter shall be preserved for three (3)
years. Organizations shall make these records available for public inspection
at reasonable times and places. (Ord. 0-06-81, 3-16-1981)
3-5-14: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES:
   (A)   The Raffles Commissioner may revoke or suspend any license issued by
him under this Chapter if he determines that the licensee has violated any
provision of this Chapter.
   (B)   No such license shall be revoked or suspended except after public
hearing by the Raffles Commissioner with three (3) days' written notice to the
licensee affording him an opportunity to appear and defend himself.
   (C)   Within five (5) days after such hearing, if the Raffles Commissioner
determines that the license should be revoked or suspended, he shall state the
reason or reasons for such determination in a written order of revocation or
suspension and shall serve a copy of this order within such five (5) days upon
the licensee. (Ord. 0-06-81, 3-16-1981)
3-5-15: CONSTRUCTION:
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to authorize the conducting or
operating of any gambling scheme, enterprise, activity or device other than a
raffle as provided for herein. (Ord. 0-06-81, 3-16-1981)
CHAPTER 6
GARAGE SALES
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: Property Permitted To Be Sold
3-6-3: Permit Required
3-6-4: Maintenance Of Order
3-6-5: Parking
3-6-6: Signs; Other Items Prohibited
3-6-7: Removal Of Signs
3-6-8: Permit Fee
3-6-9: Display Of Permit Required
3-6-10: Violation; Penalty
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
GARAGE SALE: Shall mean and include all general sales, open to the public,
conducted from a residential premises for the purpose of disposing of personal
property including, but not limited to, all sales entitled "garage", "lawn",
"yard", "attic", "porch", "room", "backyard", "patio", "flea market", or
"rummage sale". This definition shall not include a situation where no more
than five (5) specific items are held out for sale and all advertisement of
such sale specifically names those items to be sold.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Property which is owned, utilized and maintained by an
individual or members of his or her residence and acquired in the normal course
of living or in maintaining a residence. It does not include merchandise which
was purchased for resale. (Ord. 0-05-88, 3-7-1988)
3-6-2: PROPERTY PERMITTED TO BE SOLD:
It shall be unlawful for any individual to sell or offer for sale, under
authority granted by this chapter, property other than personal property (that
is not real estate). (Ord. 0-05-88, 3-7-1988)
3-6-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or allow the conducting of a
garage sale without having applied for and received from the city a permit to
conduct such sale. Permits shall be valid for one 4-consecutive day period,
Thursday through Sunday between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) P.M. No more than three (3) permits per residence shall be
issued within a twelve (12) month period. (Ord. 0-06-01, 2-5-2001)
3-6-4: MAINTENANCE OF ORDER:
The individual conducting the sale and the owner or tenant of the premises on
which such sale or activity is conducted shall be responsible for the
maintenance of good order on the premises during such sale. In the event good
order is not maintained or the sale shall violate any of the provisions of this
chapter, such individual shall be subject to the penalties provided by this
code. (Ord. 0-05-88, 3-7-1988)
3-6-5: PARKING:
The police department may enforce temporary traffic and parking controls to
alleviate any hazards or congestion created by any garage sale. (Ord. 0-05-88,
3-7-1988)
3-6-6: SIGNS; OTHER ITEMS PROHIBITED:
Only one sign advertising the sale shall be permitted on the premises where the
sale is taking place, unless such property has frontage on two (2) public
streets, in which case two (2) signs are permitted, one at each frontage. Up to
three (3) additional signs shall be permitted on other private property,
provided prior permission has been obtained from the owner of such property.
All such signs shall not exceed four (4) square feet in area. No signs shall be
erected on the public right of way. No signs shall be affixed to a utility pole
or street sign. Garage sale signs shall not be displayed on or within vehicles
or be placed in a location which would cause an obstruction to the clear view
of traffic. Any other advertising devices intended to draw attention to this
sale, including, but not limited to, banners, streamers, and loudspeakers, are
hereby prohibited. (Ord. 0-30-97, 8-4-1997)
3-6-7: REMOVAL OF SIGNS:
Signs under the provisions of this chapter shall be erected for no more than
three (3) consecutive days. Such signs shall be removed no later than three (3)
hours after conclusion of the sale, and in no event later than seven o'clock
(7:00) P.M. on the day the permit expires. (Ord. 0-30-97, 8-4-1997)
3-6-8: PERMIT FEE:
A permit fee of one dollar ($1.00) shall be charged for each permit issued.
Said permit shall be nontransferable. (Ord. 0-05-88, 3-7-1988)
3-6-9: DISPLAY OF PERMIT REQUIRED:
Garage sale permits must be prominently displayed on the residence or garage
covered by the permit in such a manner that it is easily visible to persons
passing by the premises. (Ord. 0-05-88, 3-7-1988)
3-6-10: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense. Each day a violation is found to exist shall
constitute a separate offense. The owner of any property for which a garage
sale is advertised shall be responsible for all posting of any signs relating
to such garage sale and shall be responsible for any unlawful posting. (Ord. 0-
30-97, 8-4-1997)
CHAPTER 7
SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
SECTION:
3-7-1: Definitions
3-7-2: Tax Imposed
3-7-3: Collection Of Tax By Retailers
3-7-4: Returns To Department
3-7-5: Resellers
3-7-6: Reserved
3-7-7: Severability
3-7-8: Effective Date
3-7-9: Repealer
3-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
AMOUNT PAID: The amount charged to the taxpayer's service address in this
municipality regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
DEPARTMENT: The Illinois department of revenue.
GROSS CHARGE: The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in this municipality and for all services and
equipment provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money
whether paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and
property of every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction
on account of the cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials
used, labor or service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is
extended, the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. "Gross
charges" for private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel
termination point within this municipality and charges for that portion of the
interoffice channels provided within this municipality. Charges for that
portion of the interoffice channel connecting two (2) or more channel
termination points, one or more of which is located within the jurisdictional
boundary of this municipality, shall be determined by the retailer by
multiplying an amount equal to the total charge for the interoffice channel by
a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of channel termination points
that are located within the jurisdictional boundary of this municipality and
the denominator of which is the total number of channel termination points
connected by the interoffice channel. However, "gross charge" shall not include
any of the following:
   (A)   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made
pursuant to: 1) the tax imposed by this chapter, 2) the tax imposed by the
telecommunications excise tax act, 3) the tax imposed by section 4251 of the
internal revenue code, 4) 911 surcharges, or 5) charges added to customers'
bills pursuant to the provisions of section 9-221 or 9-222 of the public
utilities act, as amended, or any similar charges added to customers' bills by
retailers who are not subject to rate regulation by the Illinois commerce
commission for the purpose of recovering any of the tax liabilities or other
amounts specified in those provisions of the public utilities act.
   (B)   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of such
municipality.
   (C)   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of
data or information for subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time sharing agreement.
   (D)   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges.
   (E)   Charges to business enterprises certified as exempt under section 9-
222.1 of the public utilities act to the extent of such exemption and during
the period of time specified by the department of commerce and economic
opportunity.
   (F)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed under
this chapter has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent that
the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or
between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering
such service.
   (G)   Bad debts ("bad debt" means any portion of a debt that is related to a
sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made).
   (H)   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin operated telecommunication
devices.
   (I)   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the
telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee act.
   (J)   Charges for nontaxable services or telecommunications if: 1) those
charges are aggregated with other charges for telecommunications that are
taxable, 2) those charges are not separately stated on the customer bill or
invoice, and 3) the retailer can reasonably identify the nontaxable charges on
the retailer's books and records kept in the regular course of business. If the
nontaxable charges cannot reasonably be identified, the gross charge from the
sale of both taxable and nontaxable services or telecommunications billed on a
combined basis shall be attributed to the taxable services or
telecommunications. The burden of proving nontaxable charges shall be on the
retailer of the telecommunications.
INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that either originate or
terminate outside this state.
INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this state.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company, or
a receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by order of
any court, the federal and state governments, including state universities
created by statute, or any city, town, county, or other political subdivision
of this state.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: The acquisition, consumption or use of telecommunications
through a sale at retail.
RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in the business of making
sales at retail as defined in this section. The department may, in its
discretion, upon application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby
imposed by any retailer not maintaining a place of business within this state,
who, to the satisfaction of the department, furnishes adequate security to
ensure collection and payment of the tax. Such retailer shall be issued,
without charge, a permit to collect such tax. When so authorized, it shall be
the duty of such retailer to collect the tax upon all of the gross charges for
telecommunications in this state in the same manner and subject to the same
requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business within this state.
The permit may be revoked by the department at its discretion.
RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (Or Any Like Term):
Means and includes any retailer having or maintaining within this state,
directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission
facilities, sales office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or
other representative operating within this state under the authority of the
retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or
agent or other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or
whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
SALE AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or furnishing of
telecommunications and all services and equipment provided in connection
therewith for a consideration, to persons other than the federal and state
governments, and state universities created by statute and other than between a
parent corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems, and maritime
systems, service address means the customer's place of primary use as defined
in the mobile telecommunications sourcing conformity act. For air to ground
systems, and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of a
taxpayer's primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by
telephone number, authorization code, or location in Illinois where bills are
sent.
TAXPAYER: A person who individually or through his or her agents, employees, or
permittees engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in a municipality and who incurs a tax liability as
authorized by this chapter.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly
ascribed to it, includes, without limitation, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
private line services, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter,
computer exchange services, cellular mobile telecommunications service,
specialized mobile radio, stationary two-way radio, paging service, or any
other form of mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. As used in this chapter, "private line" means
a dedicated nontraffic sensitive service for a single customer, that entitles
the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group
of channels, from one or more specified locations to one or more other
specified locations. The definition of "telecommunications" shall not include
value added services in which computer processing applications are used to act
on the form, content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes other
than transmission. "Telecommunications" shall not include purchases of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end to end communications.
Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of
intercompany facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of, or integrated into, end to end
telecommunications service shall be nontaxable as sales for resale. Prepaid
telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered "telecommunications"
subject to the tax imposed under this chapter. For purposes of this chapter,
"prepaid telephone calling arrangements" means that term as defined in section
2-27 of the retailers' occupation tax act. (Ord. 0-01-04, 1-19-2004, eff.
retroactive to 1-1-2003; amd. Ord. 0-07-10, 3-15-2010)
3-7-2: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all of the following acts or privileges:
   (A)   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving
in the municipality intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of six
percent (6.0%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at
retail from a retailer. To prevent actual multimunicipal taxation of the act or
privilege that is subject to taxation under this subsection, any taxpayer, upon
proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another municipality on that event,
shall be allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by
this section to the extent of the amount of the tax properly due and paid in
the municipality that was not previously allowed as a credit against any other
municipal tax.
   (B)   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving
in the municipality interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of six
percent (6.0%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at
retail from a retailer. To prevent actual multistate or multimunicipal taxation
of the act or privilege that is subject to taxation under this subsection, any
taxpayer, upon proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another state or
municipality in this state on such event, shall be allowed a credit against any
tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this section to the extent of the
amount of such tax properly due and paid in such other state or such tax
properly due and paid in a municipality in this state which was not previously
allowed as a credit against any other state or local tax in this state.
   (C)   The tax imposed by this chapter is not imposed on such act or
privilege to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the constitution
and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the
municipality. (Ord. 0-07-10, 3-15-2010)
3-7-3: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS:
   (A)   The tax authorized by this chapter shall be collected from the
taxpayer by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall
be remitted by such retailer to the department. Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this chapter and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect
the tax from the taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in
the manner prescribed by the department. The tax authorized by this chapter
shall constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and, if
unpaid, is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for
such sale at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the
taxpayer, then the taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the
department in the manner provided by the department.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this chapter shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications. (Ord. 0-01-04, 1-19-2004, eff. retroactive to 1-
1-2003)
3-7-4: RETURNS TO DEPARTMENT:
On or before the last day of February 2003, and on or before the last day of
every month thereafter, the tax imposed under this chapter on telecommunication
retailers shall be returned with appropriate forms and information as required
by the department pursuant to the Illinois simplified municipal
telecommunications tax act (public act 92-526, section 5-50) and any
accompanying rules and regulations created by the department to implement the
act. (Ord. 0-01-04, 1-19-2004, eff. retroactive to 1-1-2003)
3-7-5: RESELLERS:
   (A)   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to be
a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this chapter on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the department may reasonably require.
   (B)   Upon approval of the application, the department shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant. The
department may cancel any number which is obtained through misrepresentation,
or which is used to send or receive such telecommunication tax free when such
actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer applies because of the
person's having discontinued the making of resales.
   (C)   Except as provided in this section, the act or privilege of
originating or receiving telecommunications in this state shall not be made tax
free on the grounds of being a sale for resale unless the person has an active
resale number from the department and furnishes that number to the retailer in
connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such person is
nontaxable because of being a sale for resale. (Ord. 0-01-04, 1-19-2004, eff.
retroactive to 1-1-2003)
3-7-6: RESERVED:
(Ord. 0-01-04, 1-19-2004, eff. retroactive to 1-1-2003)
3-7-7: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter, or the application of any provision of this
chapter, is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such occurrence shall
not affect other provisions of this chapter, or their application, that can be
given effect without the unconstitutional or invalid provision or its
application. Each unconstitutional or invalid provision, or application of such
provision, is severable, unless otherwise provided by this chapter. (Ord. 0-01-
04, 1-19-2004, eff. retroactive to 1-1-2003)
3-7-8: EFFECTIVE DATE:
   (A)   Two Percent Tax Rate Effective To July 1, 2010: The simplified
municipal telecommunications tax authorized by this chapter with respect to the
act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving in the
municipality intrastate and interstate telecommunications shall be imposed at
the rate of two percent (2.0%) with respect to the gross charges billed by
telecommunications retailers on or before July 1, 2010, and upon the
effectiveness of subsection (B) of this section, provided, however, that any
amounts due or payable to the city for any tax periods ending prior to July 1,
2010, shall nevertheless remain payable as if this chapter had not been
adopted.
   (B)   Six Percent Tax Rate Effective On And After July 1, 2010: The
simplified municipal telecommunications tax authorized by this chapter with
respect to the act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving
in the municipality intrastate and interstate telecommunications, as amended by
the ordinance codified herein, shall be effective and imposed at the rate of
six percent (6.0%) with respect to the gross charges billed by
telecommunications retailers on or after July 1, 2010. (Ord. 0-31-09, 10-5-
2009)
3-7-9: REPEALER:
If public act 92-0526, entitled the simplified municipal telecommunications tax
act, is repealed or becomes ineffective for any reason, or if this chapter
herein adopted should be repealed or become ineffective for any reason, then
ordinance 0-42-97, passed November 3, 1997, as it pertains to this tax shall be
deemed in full force and effect as of the date public act 92-0526 or this
chapter is repealed or becomes ineffective. (Ord. 0-01-04, 1-19-2004, eff.
retroactive to 1-1-2003)
CHAPTER 8
MASSAGE BUSINESSES AND SERVICES
SECTION:
3-8-1: Definitions
3-8-2: Massage Business License Required
3-8-3: Massage Therapist License Required
3-8-4: Exemptions
3-8-5: Application For Massage Business License
3-8-6: Application For Massage Therapist License
3-8-7: Issuance And Denial Of Licenses
3-8-8: License Term; Expiration; Renewal; Late Fee; Other Licenses; License
Fees
3-8-9: Display Of License
3-8-10: Sanitation And Safety Requirements
3-8-11: Register And Regulation Of Employees
3-8-12: Conditions And Restrictions Of License
3-8-13: Sale, Transfer, Or Change Of Location
3-8-14: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
3-8-15: Suspension, Revocation Of License; Appeal
3-8-16: Penalty; Enforcement
3-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them by this section:
CHAIR MASSAGE: A massage performed in equipment specifically designed for the
purpose of massage and limited to a client's head, neck, back, arms, shoulders
and legs.
COMPENSATION: The payment, loan, advance, donation, contribution, deposit or
gift of money or anything of value.
CONVICTION: As used in this chapter, conviction shall include a finding or
verdict of guilty, an admission of guilt, or a plea of nolo contendere.
EMPLOYEE: Any person over eighteen (18) years of age, other than a massage
therapist, who renders any service in connection with the operation of a
massage establishment and receives compensation from the owner or operator of
the establishment or patrons.
HEALTH CLUB: An indoor facility designed, intended and used as a location where
persons can exercise and where providing of massages is ancillary to the
facility's primary business. To qualify as a health club under this chapter, a
facility must have not less than ten (10) exercise machines and must comply
with the sanitation and safety requirements set forth in section
3-8-10 of this chapter.
HOME MASSAGE: A massage performed by a massage therapist licensed pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter at a patron's place of residence.
LICENSEE: The owner and/or operator of a massage establishment licensed under
this chapter.
MASSAGE: Any method of applying pressure on or friction against, or stroking,
kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating, touching or stimulating the
external parts of the body by another individual, with the hands, any body
part, or with the aid of any mechanical or electrical apparatus or appliance,
with or without such supplementary aids as rubbing alcohol, liniments,
antiseptics, oils, powders, creams, lotions, ointments or other similar
preparations.
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT: Any establishment having a fixed place of business where
any person, firm, association, or corporation engages in, or carries on, or
permits to be engaged in or carried on any acts of "massage" as defined herein.
Massage establishment also includes a massage business operated out of a duly
licensed massage therapist's residence.
MASSAGE SERVICES: The providing of a massage by any person, firm, association
or corporation.
MASSAGE THERAPIST: Any person who, for any compensation, engages in the
practice of "massage" as defined herein and provides documentation of one of
the following:
   (A)   Proof of active membership status in a professional massage therapy
organization whose minimum standards require graduation from a "Recognized
School", as defined herein, or the passing of a competency test for active
membership;
   (B)   Graduation and completion of a professional level entry program which
consists of five hundred (500) hours or more of in classroom study and one
hundred (100) hours or more of clinical experience in a "Recognized School"; or
   (C)   Passage of the national certification examination in therapeutic
massage and bodywork (NCETMB) administered by the national certification board
for therapeutic massage and bodywork, which is approved by the national
commission for certifying agencies (NCCA), the accrediting arm of the national
organization for competency assurance (NOCA) or any other examination
exhibiting proficiency in massage therapy/bodywork approved by the state of
Illinois or a federal certifying agency and maintains current certification.
MASSEUR: See definition of Massage Therapist.
OUTCALL MASSAGE SERVICE: Any business, the function of which is to engage in or
carry on massages for compensation at a location designated by the patron
rather than at a massage establishment.
PATRON: Any person, customer, client who receives a massage under such
circumstances that it is reasonably expected that he or she will pay money or
give any other consideration therefor.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, firm, association, limited liability
company, joint stock company, corporation or combination of individuals of
whatever form or character.
RECOGNIZED SCHOOL: A state approved school operating according to state
regulations which has a current license, approval, accreditation and/or
certification from the state in which it is located and provides an entry level
massage training program of a minimum of five hundred (500) hours of in
classroom study and one hundred (100) or more of clinical training, which
program shall include anatomy and physiology, kinesthetics, ethics, pathology,
contraindication and clinical experience, or a massage school program
accredited/approved by the commission on massage therapy accreditation (COMTA),
the international massage and somatic therapies accreditation council (IMSTAC),
or by a similar nationally recognized professional accrediting entity, or
approved by the U.S. department of education. All course work for credit hours
shall be completed under the supervision of faculty. Schools offering
correspondence courses and not requiring actual class attendance shall not be
regarded as a "Recognized School".
SEXUAL OR GENITAL AREA: The genitals, pubic area, anus, or perineum of any
person, or the vulva or breasts of a female.
WORKPLACE MASSAGE: A chair massage performed by a massage therapist licensed
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter on a fully clothed patron in an
office or other business setting in an area of the city which is zoned for
business, office and industrial uses. (Ord. 0-39-00, 12-18-2000, eff. 2-1-2001;
amd. Ord. 0-01-02, 1-21-2002)
3-8-2: MASSAGE BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in, conduct or carry on,
or permit to be engaged in, conducted or carried on, the business of massage or
otherwise provide a massage in return for compensation in the city of Darien
without first having obtained a massage business license issued by the city
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter for each and every premises used for
the business of conducting a massage business or otherwise providing massages
for compensation by such person. The applicant for such business license must
be at least eighteen (18) years of age.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in or carry on the
business of providing workplace massages for more than seven (7) days in any
one year period without first obtaining a massage business license issued by
the city pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. The applicant for such
business license must be at least eighteen (18) years of age. (Ord. 0-39-00,
12-18-2000, eff. 2-1-2001)
   (C)   Any massage therapist, duly licensed by the city of Darien, who
operates a massage business out of his/her residence shall be required to
obtain a massage business license from the city. Said business shall be
considered a "home occupation" as defined in section
5A-13-1 of this code and shall be in compliance with the home occupation
regulations set forth in sections
5A-5-13-1 through
5A-5-13-4 of this code. A separate home occupation license shall not be
required. (Ord. 0-01-02, 1-21-2002)
3-8-3: MASSAGE THERAPIST LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall provide a massage to another person as a massage therapist,
employee or otherwise, on any premises for which a business license has been
issued or is required under section
3-8-2 of this chapter unless he or she has a valid and current massage
therapist license issued to him or her by the city pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter. The applicant for a massage therapist license must be at least
eighteen (18) years of age and of good moral character. (Ord. 0-01-02, 1-21-
2002)
3-8-4: EXEMPTIONS:
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following
individuals while engaged in the performance of the duties of their respective
professions, and to the following businesses and entities:
      1.   Physicians, physicians' assistants, surgeons, chiropractors,
osteopaths, podiatrists, naprapaths, or physical or occupational therapists who
are duly licensed to practice their respective professions in the state of
Illinois. (Ord. 0-01-02, 1-21-2002)
      2.   Illinois licensed practical nurses, registered nurses, and certified
nurses' assistants while administering massages in the normal course of their
medical duties. (Ord. 0-39-00, 12-18-2000, eff. 2-1-2001)
      3.   Barbers and cosmetologists who are duly licensed under the laws of
this state. This exemption shall apply solely to the massaging of the scalp and
face by barbers and the massaging of the hands, arms, elbows, feet, lower legs
and knees by cosmetologists of the customer or client for cosmetic or
beautifying purposes. (Ord. 0-01-02, 1-21-2002)
      4.   Hospitals, sanitariums, nursing homes, home health agencies, hospice
programs and other such programs as defined by state statute and licensed by
the Illinois department of public health. (Ord. 0-39-00, 12-18-2000, eff. 2-1-
2001)
      5.   Massages provided in the course of not for profit special events,
such as corporate health and wellness days, fundraisers, and athletic events.
Upon request, an individual providing massages for such events, shall
demonstrate proof of professional liability insurance. (Ord. 0-01-02, 1-21-
2002)
      6.   Duly licensed athletic trainers for any athletic program of a
private or public school, college or university or for any athletic team
regularly organized and engaging in competition. (Ord. 0-39-00, 12-18-2000,
eff. 2-1-2001)
      7.   Massages provided by massage therapy students enrolled in a
recognized school during the course of clinical externships, practicums or
community services, provided that: a) such massage services are part of the
curricular requirements of the recognized school; b) are conducted under the
supervision of the school's faculty and/or a massage therapist who is licensed
under this chapter; c) the student does not hold him or herself out as a
licensed massage therapist; and d) does not charge compensation for massage
therapy services. (Ord. 0-01-02, 1-21-2002)
      8.   No provision contained in this chapter shall be construed to apply
to any person, business, or conduct regulated by the provisions of the Illinois
physical therapy act, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 90/1 et seq. (Ord. 0-39-
00, 12-18-2000, eff. 2-1-2001)
      9.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to a "health club" as
defined in section
3-8-1 of this chapter, provided there is compliance with section
3-8-10 of this chapter while any massages are given on the premises of a health
club. Any person employed by a health club to perform massages must be licensed
as a massage therapist under this chapter.
      10.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to a hotel that
offers massages to registered guests. Any individual employed by a hotel as a
massage therapist or masseur to provide massages to registered guests must be
licensed as a massage therapist under this chapter. (Ord. 0-01-02, 1-21-2002)
3-8-5: APPLICATION FOR MASSAGE BUSINESS LICENSE:
   (A)   An application for a massage business license shall be filed with the
city clerk of the city of Darien. The application shall be made upon a form
provided by the city clerk and shall be completed in full and signed by the
applicant, if an individual, or by a duly authorized agent thereof, if not an
individual, verified by oath or affidavit, and shall set forth:
      1.   The type of ownership of the business, i.e., whether individual,
partnership, corporation, or otherwise.
      2.   The name under which the business is to be conducted.
      3.   A description of the services to be provided on the premises.
      4.   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license.
         (a)   If a leased premises, a copy of the lease shall be provided. The
term of such lease must not end until after the expiration date of the license
for which application is being made.
         (b)   The name and address of the owner(s) of the premises, and, if
said premises is held in trust, the names and addresses of all the owners of
the beneficial interest of the trust.
      5.   All telephone numbers and internet addresses of the business.
      6.   In the case of an individual, the full name, home address with zip
code, social security number, driver's license number, date of birth, sex and a
physical description of the applicant, including height, weight, color of hair
and eyes.
      7.   In the case of a partnership, the full name, home address with zip
code, social security number, driver's license number, date of birth, sex and a
physical description including height, weight, color of hair and eyes of all
partners and any other persons entitled to share in the profits thereof.
      8.   In the case of a corporation, the object for which organized, the
names, home addresses with zip codes, driver's license number, date of birth,
social security number, sex and a physical description including height,
weight, color of hair and eyes of all officers, directors, and all persons
owning directly or beneficially more than ten percent (10%) of the stock of
such corporation and the persons acting as managers or assistant managers or
other persons principally in charge of the operation of the business.
      9.   The date of formation of the partnership, if a partnership, the date
of incorporation, if an Illinois corporation, or the date of becoming qualified
under the Illinois business corporation act, 805 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
1.01 et seq., to transact business in Illinois if a foreign corporation.
      10.   A complete list of the names and residence addresses of all massage
therapists and employees employed by the business and the names and residence
addresses of all managers, assistant managers or other persons principally in
charge of the operation of the business.
      11.   The business, occupation, and employment history of the applicant,
if an individual, for three (3) years preceding the date of application.
      12.   Whether applicant ever made an application for a license under this
chapter, or a massage business license or similar license to a state, county,
city, or village or other unit of local government, and if so, where and when,
and if such application was granted or denied, and if such application was
denied, the reasons for the denial.
      13.   Whether a license was ever issued to the applicant under this
chapter or a massage business license or similar license was ever issued by any
state, county, city or village or other unit of local government, and if so,
where and when, and if such license has ever been suspended or revoked and the
reasons for the suspension or revocation. (Ord. 0-39-00, 12-18-2000, eff. 2-1-
2001)
      14.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter or any ordinance of any other Illinois
municipality which regulates massage establishments or the providing of
massages, or any Illinois statute regulating massage establishments. (Ord. 0-
01-02, 1-21-2002)
      15.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of the commission of
a felony under the laws of this state, or any other state, or under the laws of
the United States. (Ord. 0-39-00, 12-18-2000, eff. 2-1-2001)
      16.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a sex offense as
defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11, or any equivalent law of any
state. (Ord. 0-01-02, 1-21-2002)
      17.   Whether the applicant has been convicted of any other criminal
offense involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or moral turpitude within five (5)
years of the date of the application.
      18.   Proof that the applicant is at least eighteen (18) years of age.
      19.   Proof that the applicant currently carries professional liability
insurance in an amount not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per
occurrence. (Ord. 0-39-00, 12-18-2000, eff. 2-1-2001)
   (B)   The applicant shall submit a complete set of fingerprints with the
application. All such fingerprinting shall be done by the city of Darien police
department. Said fingerprints shall be submitted to the appropriate state and/
or federal agencies for processing as available. The cost of fingerprinting
shall be paid by the applicant in addition to any license application or
renewal fee. After the initial application for a license, fingerprints for the
renewal of the license shall be required every three (3) years unless the
license has lapsed or has been revoked. If the license has lapsed or been
revoked, the applicant shall be required to submit a new (initial) application
with a complete set of fingerprints. (Ord. 0-01-02, 1-21-2002)
   (C)   The applicant shall submit a written authorization for the city, its
agents and employees to seek information and conduct an investigation into the
truth of the statements set forth in the application and the qualifications of
the applicant for a license.
   (D)   The applicant shall submit such other information, documentation, and
identification of the applicant as the director of community development and/or
the chief of police shall deem necessary to determine the identity of the
applicant or to process the application.
   (E)   The applicant shall notify the director of community development of
each change in any data required to be furnished by this section within ten
(10) days after such change occurs, except that any prospective new massage
therapist employee shall not be employed until he or she has received a massage
therapist license under the provisions of section
3-8-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 0-39-00, 12-18-2000, eff. 2-1-2001)
3-8-6: APPLICATION FOR MASSAGE THERAPIST LICENSE:
   (A)   An application for a massage therapist license shall be filed with the
city clerk of the city of Darien. The application shall be made upon a form
provided by the city clerk and shall be completed in full and signed by the
applicant, verified by oath or affidavit, and shall set forth: (Ord. 0-39-00,
12-18-2000, eff. 2-1-2001)
      1.   If employed by a massage establishment, the business address and the
applicant's home address and telephone numbers where the applicant will be
providing massages. If not employed by a massage establishment, the applicant's
home address and telephone number. (Ord. 0-01-02, 1-21-2002)
      2.   The full name, home address with zip code, social security number,
driver's license number, date of birth, sex and a physical description of the
applicant, including height, weight, color of hair and eyes.
      3.   The business, occupation, and employment of applicant for three (3)
years preceding the date of application. (Ord. 0-39-00, 12-18-2000, eff. 2-1-
2001)
      4.   Whether the applicant ever made an application for a massage
therapist license under this chapter or a massage therapist's or similar
license to any state, county, city, village or other unit of local government,
and if so, where and when and if such application was granted or denied, and if
such application was granted or denied, and if such application was denied, the
reasons for the denial.
      5.   Whether a massage therapist license was ever issued to the applicant
under this chapter or a massage therapist's or similar license was ever issued
by any state, county, city, village or other unit of local government, and if
so, where and when and if such license has ever been suspended or revoked and
the reasons for the suspension or revocation.
      6.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a violation of any
provisions of this chapter or any ordinance of any other Illinois municipality
which regulates massage establishments or the giving of massages, or any
Illinois statute regulating massage therapists. (Ord. 0-01-02, 1-21-2002)
      7.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a violation of any
"Sex Offenses" as delineated under 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
5 through 5/11-22 or any equivalent foreign state statute or federal law within
five (5) years of the date of the application.
      8.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of the commission of a
felony under the laws of this state, or any other state, or under the laws of
the United States.
      9.   Proof that the applicant is a "massage therapist", as defined in
section
3-8-1 of this chapter.
      10.   Proof that the applicant currently carries professional liability
insurance in an amount of no less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per
occurrence.
      11.   Proof that the applicant is currently certified in cardiopulmonary
resuscitation (CPR).
   (B)   The applicant shall submit a statement in writing from a physician
duly licensed in the state of Illinois that he or she has examined the
applicant and believes the applicant to be free of all communicable diseases.
An applicant is required to undergo an annual physical examination and to
furnish a medical certificate relating to communicable diseases with his or her
annual fee. (Ord. 0-39-00, 12-18-2000, eff. 2-1-2001)
   (C)   The applicant shall submit a complete set of fingerprints with the
application for a massage therapist license. All such fingerprinting shall be
done by the city of Darien police department. Said fingerprints shall be
submitted to the appropriate state and/or federal agencies for processing as
available. The cost of fingerprinting shall be paid by the applicant in
addition to any other required license or application fee. After the initial
application for a license, fingerprints for the renewal of the license shall be
required every three (3) years unless the license has lapsed or has been
revoked. If the license has lapsed or been revoked, the applicant shall be
required to submit a new (initial) application with a complete set of
fingerprints. (Ord. 0-01-02, 1-21-2002)
   (D)   The applicant shall submit a written authorization for the city, its
agents and employees to seek information and conduct an investigation into the
truth of the statements set forth in the application and the qualifications of
the applicant for a license.
   (E)   The applicant shall submit such other information, documentation, and
identification of the applicant as the director of community development and/or
the chief of police shall deem necessary to determine the identity of the
applicant or to process the application. (Ord. 0-39-00, 12-18-2000, eff. 2-1-
2001)
3-8-7: ISSUANCE AND DENIAL OF LICENSES:
   (A)   Upon receipt of a properly completed application for a massage
business license or a massage therapist license, the city clerk or duly
authorized agent shall submit the completed application to the police chief and
director of community development for evaluation. Upon receiving the
application for a massage business license or a massage therapist license, the
chief of police shall conduct an investigation into the applicant's moral
character and personal and criminal history.
   (B)   In the case of an application for a massage business license, the
director of community development shall cause the premises to be licensed to be
inspected to assure that the proposed operation complies with all applicable
laws, including building, electrical, plumbing, health, housing, zoning, and
fire codes of the city and any other regulations of the city relating to the
public health, safety and welfare. The director of community development shall
make written verification to the mayor concerning compliance of the applicant
with the codes and ordinances of the city.
   (C)   If, after due consideration of the information contained within the
application and related investigative and inspection reports, the mayor shall
determine the application is satisfactory, he shall approve the application.
Thereupon, the city clerk shall notify the applicant that the application has
been approved. The license shall be signed by the mayor, attested by the clerk,
and then issued to the licensee. No license shall be issued to any applicant
if:
      1.   The proposed operation does not comply with all applicable laws,
including, but not limited to, building, electrical, plumbing, health, housing,
zoning and fire codes of the city; or
      2.   The applicant, if an individual; or any of the officers, directors,
any person owning directly or beneficially more than ten percent (10%) of the
stock of the corporation, if the applicant is a corporation; or any of the
partners, including limited partners, if the applicant is a partnership; and
the manager, assistant manager or any other person principally in charge of the
operation of the business, has been: (Ord. 0-39-00, 12-18-2000, eff. 2-1-2001)
         (a)   Convicted of a felony or a misdemeanor under the laws of the
state of Illinois or any other state, or under the federal laws of the United
States, for any crime that is directly related to the practice of massage
therapy; or
         (b)   Convicted of a sex offense as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-5 to 5/11-22, or any equivalent law of any state and/or is a
registered sex offender; or (Ord. 0-01-02, 1-21-2002)
         (c)   The applicant has been convicted of a violation of any provision
of this chapter; or
         (d)   The applicant has had a massage business, masseur or similar
license denied, suspended or revoked by the city, by a state, or by a unit of
local government within five (5) years of the date of the application; or
         (e)   The applicant has been convicted of a violation of an ordinance
of any other Illinois municipality regulating massage establishments or
masseurs; or
         (f)   The applicant has been convicted of any other criminal offense
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or moral turpitude within five (5) years of
the date of the application; or
         (g)   The applicant has knowingly made false, misleading or fraudulent
statements of fact in the license application or in any document required by
the city in conjunction with the license application.
   (D)   If, after due consideration of the information contained within the
application and related investigative and inspection reports, the mayor shall
determine that matters concerning the application are unsatisfactory, he shall
disapprove the application, indicating the reasons therefor. The application
shall be automatically denied if the applicant is in violation of any of the
conditions set forth in subsection (C) of this section. Thereupon, the clerk
shall notify the applicant that the application has not been approved and that
no license will be issued. (Ord. 0-39-00, 12-18-2000, eff. 2-1-2001)
3-8-8: LICENSE TERM; EXPIRATION; RENEWAL; LATE FEE; OTHER LICENSES; LICENSE
FEES:
   (A)   The term, expiration, renewal, late fee and other license
requirements, if applicable, for each license issued under this chapter shall
be as provided in section
3-1-5 of this title. (Ord. 0-39-00, 12-18-2000, eff. 2-1-2001)
   (B)   The license application fee and the annual license renewal fee for a
massage business license shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00). The license
fee for the original application for a massage therapist license shall be fifty
dollars ($50.00) and twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each renewal application.
All applicable license fees and any other required fees, including costs of
fingerprinting, shall be paid prior to the issuance of any license. (Ord. 0-19-
01, 4-16-2001)
3-8-9: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
The massage business license and the massage therapist license of each and
every massage therapist employed in the establishment shall be displayed in an
open and conspicuous place of the premises to be licensed. A massage therapist
who performs a workplace massage or home massage shall have a copy of his/her
license with him/her when performing such massage and shall display said
license upon the request by the patron or a police officer or other employee of
the city authorized to administer this chapter. (Ord. 0-39-00, 12-18-2000, eff.
2-1-2001)
3-8-10: SANITATION AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
All premises licensed under this chapter shall be periodically inspected by the
director of community development or his/her duly authorized representative for
safety of the structure and adequacy of plumbing, ventilation, heating,
illumination and fire protection, as provided in the city's building code. In
addition, the premises shall comply with the following regulations:
   (A)   The walls shall be clean and painted with washable, mold resistant
paint in all rooms where water or steam baths are given;
   (B)   Floors shall be free from any accumulation of dust, dirt or refuse;
   (C)   All equipment used in the massage establishment shall be maintained in
a clean and sanitary condition;
   (D)   Soaps, towels, linens and laundered sheets must be provided. All such
towels, linens and items for personal use of operators and patrons shall be
clean and freshly laundered after each use thereof and stored in a sanitary
manner;
   (E)   Towels, linens and sheets shall not be used for more than one patron;
provided, however, heavy white paper may be substituted for sheets provided
that such paper is changed for every patron;
   (F)   All massage services or practices are prohibited in any cubicle, room,
booth or any area within a massage establishment which is fitted with a door
capable of being locked; (Ord. 0-39-00, 12-18-2000, eff. 2-1-2001)
   (G)   All massage therapists shall wear clean and suitable outer garments.
(Ord. 0-01-02, 1-21-2002)
3-8-11: REGISTER AND REGULATION OF EMPLOYEES:
   (A)   The licensee or person designated by the licensee of a licensed
massage establishment shall maintain a register of the names and addresses of
all persons employed at any time as massage therapists and all other employees.
The register shall list the massage therapists' license numbers. Such register
shall be available at the massage establishment for inspection by a duly
authorized representative of the city of Darien during regular business hours.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the licensee of a massage
establishment to ensure that each person employed as a massage therapist shall
first have obtained a valid license as required by this chapter. It shall be
unlawful for such a business to allow a massage therapist to practice other
than as permitted by this chapter. (Ord. 0-39-00, 12-18-2000, eff. 2-1-2001)
   (C)   The city clerk shall provide each licensed massage therapist with an
identification card which shall contain the full name and license number
assigned to said massage therapist. The identification card must be carried on
the person of the massage therapist at all times during the hours of operation
of any licensed massage establishment and shown to all customers prior to
performing a massage. (Ord. 0-01-02, 1-21-2002)
3-8-12: CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS OF LICENSE:
   (A)   Supervision: A licensee shall have the premises supervised at all
times when open for business. Any business rendering massage services shall
have at least one person who has a valid massage therapist license on the
premises at all times while the establishment is open. The licensee shall
personally supervise the business, or shall delegate such supervisory
responsibility to a manager whose name is listed on the massage business
license as required by subsection
3-8-5(A) of this chapter and shall not violate, or permit others to violate,
any applicable provisions of this chapter. The violation of any provisions by
any agent or employee of the licensee shall constitute a violation by the
licensee.
   (B)   Sanitary Conditions: All areas and equipment in a massage
establishment, including appliances and apparatus, shall be kept clean and
operated in a sanitary condition as required by section
3-8-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 0-39-00, 12-18-2000, eff. 2-1-2001)
   (C)   Display Of Rates: Price rates for all services shall be prominently
displayed in a framed placard not less than eight inches by ten inches (8" x
10") in the reception area or other location which is visible and available to
all prospective customers. This placard must also display the following
message: "No services other than those listed shall be provided for any
compensation whatsoever. There shall be no bargaining or solicitation for
services between patrons, Massage Therapists, or employees." (Ord. 0-01-02, 1-
21-2002)
   (D)   Employee Dress Code: All employees, including massage therapists,
shall be clean and wear clean, nontransparent outer garments, covering at least
the entire torso and the sexual and genital areas as defined herein.
   (E)   Separate License For Each Premises: Licenses apply only to the
premises described in the application, and in the license issued thereon, and
only one location shall be so described in each license.
   (F)   Transfer Of License: A license shall be a purely personal privilege,
effective for a period not to exceed one year after issuance unless sooner
revoked as provided in this chapter, and shall not constitute property. No
massage business license or massage therapist license may be assigned, sold,
loaned, transferred, used as collateral or otherwise and such authority as a
license confers shall be conferred only to the licensee named therein.
   (G)   Unlawful Use: No person shall use or display any license, certificate,
tag, badge, or sticker which has been improperly acquired. No person shall
alter, deface, forge, or counterfeit any license, certificate, plate, tag,
badge or sticker issued by the city under this chapter.
   (H)   Minors Prohibited: No person licensed under the provisions of this
chapter shall permit any person under the age of eighteen (18) to come or
remain on the premises of any massage establishment, as a massage therapist,
employee or patron unless such person is on the premises on lawful business.
   (I)   Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited: No person shall sell, give, dispense,
provide, keep or consume or cause to be sold, given, dispensed, provided, kept
or consumed, any alcoholic beverage on the premises of any massage
establishment.
   (J)   Solicitation Prohibited: No massage establishment shall place, publish
or distribute or cause to be placed, published or distributed any
advertisement, picture, or statement which is known to be false, deceptive or
misleading in order to induce any person to purchase or utilize any massage
services.
   (K)   Hours Of Operation: No portion of any licensed massage establishment
shall be kept open for any purpose between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
   (L)   Inspections: The director of community development, the police chief
or their authorized representatives shall from time to time make inspections of
each massage establishment for the purposes of determining that the provisions
of this chapter are fully complied with. It shall be unlawful for any licensee
to fail to allow such inspection officer access to the premises or hinder such
officer in any manner.
   (M)   Books And Records: Every massage business and massage therapist
licensee shall at all times keep an appointment book in which the name of each
and every patron shall be entered, together with the time, date and place of
service, and the service provided. Such book shall be made available at all
times for inspection by the director of community development or the police
chief or their authorized representatives. (Ord. 0-39-00, 12-18-2000, eff. 2-1-
2001)
3-8-13: SALE, TRANSFER, OR CHANGE OF LOCATION:
   (A)   Upon sale or transfer of a massage establishment, the license therefor
shall be null and void and a new license shall be required. Upon the death or
incapacity of the licensee or any colicensee of the massage establishment, any
heir or beneficiary of a deceased licensee, or any guardian of an heir or
beneficiary of a deceased licensee, may continue the business of the massage
establishment for a reasonable period of time not to exceed sixty (60) days to
allow for the issuance of a new license if the applicant is in compliance with
all the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The location of a licensed massage establishment or a licensed massage
therapist may be changed provided the clerk's office shall be given sufficient
notice of such intended change in location to determine that the new location
of the massage establishment or massage therapist conforms with all the
provisions of this chapter, and all applicable ordinances and regulations of
the city. (Ord. 0-39-00, 12-18-2000, eff. 2-1-2001)
3-8-14: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
The city may refuse to issue or renew, or may revoke, suspend, place on
probation, reprimand or take other disciplinary action, as the city considers
appropriate, including the imposition of fines set forth in section
3-8-16 of this chapter and in any other applicable sections of this code, for
each violation with regard to any license or licensee for any one or more of
the following acts and/or conditions: (Ord. 0-01-02, 1-21-2002)
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or operate a massage
business without first obtaining and maintaining a massage business license as
required by this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to administer any massage without
first obtaining and maintaining a massage therapist license as required by this
chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or conduct any massage
establishment which does not conform to section
3-8-10 of this chapter.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed under this chapter to
operate under any name or conduct business under any designation not specified
in the license. (Ord. 0-39-00, 12-18-2000, eff. 2-1-2001)
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to advertise, promote, or refer to
himself or herself as a "massage therapist", as herein defined, without first
obtaining and maintaining a massage therapist license from the city and/or to
advertise in a false, deceptive or misleading manner. (Ord. 0-01-02, 1-21-2002)
   (F)   A patron's sexual or genital areas, as defined herein, must be covered
by towels, cloths, undergarments or similar nontransparent garments when in the
presence of a massage therapist or employee.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person, intentionally or knowingly, in a
massage establishment, or while a home massage or workplace massage is being
provided, to expose or fail to conceal his or her sexual and genital parts, or
any portion thereof, to any other person, or to place his or her hand upon, to
touch with any part of his or her body, to fondle in any manner, or to massage
the genital area of another person.
   (H)   No massage therapist or employee shall perform, offer or agree to
perform any act, whether or not for compensation of any form, which would
require the touching of the patron's sexual or genital areas. (Ord. 0-39-00,
12-18-2000, eff. 2-1-2001)
   (I)   No massage therapist shall administer a massage to a patron exhibiting
any skin fungus, skin infection, skin inflammation, or skin eruption, unless he
or she exercises precautions universally practiced by health care professionals
and employees under like/similar circumstances. (Ord. 0-01-02, 1-21-2002)
   (J)   A massage therapist providing a home massage or workplace massage
shall wear appropriate undergarments and outer garments, including a brassiere,
if the massage therapist is female. The outer garments being worn must be clean
and suitable. A massage therapist providing a home massage or workplace massage
shall not intentionally or knowingly display undergarments he or she is wearing
to the patron.
   (K)   A home massage shall not be given to any person except in the dwelling
unit where the person resides.
   (L)   A workplace massage shall be performed in an open, communal area, or
in an office, but only if the door to the office is unlocked and is open at
least six inches (6") while the massage is being performed. For purposes of
this chapter, an office or business shall not include a hotel room. (Ord. 0-39-
00, 12-18-2000, eff. 2-1-2001)
   (M)   No massage shall be given by a massage therapist in a massage
establishment to any person who is less than eighteen (18) years of age except
upon presentation of written consent by the minor's parent or legal guardian.
(Ord. 0-01-02, 1-21-2002)
   (N)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, operating or managing a
massage establishment, to knowingly cause, allow or permit in or about such
massage establishment, any agent, employee, or any other person under his/her
control or supervision to perform any acts prohibited by this chapter.
   (O)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or conduct an "outcall
massage service" as defined in section
3-8-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 0-39-00, 12-18-2000, eff. 2-1-2001)
   (P)   The conviction of any crime under the laws of the United States or any
state or territory thereof that is a felony or misdemeanor, an essential
element of which is dishonesty, or any that is directly related to the practice
of massage.
   (Q)   To aid, assist, procure, or advise any unlicensed person to practice
massage contrary to any provision of this chapter.
   (R)   To engage in immoral conduct in the commission of any act, such as
sexual abuse, sexual misconduct, or sexual exploitation, related to practice of
massage therapy.
   (S)   To engage in dishonorable, unethical, or unprofessional conduct of a
character likely to deceive, defraud or harm the public.
   (T)   To practice or offer to practice beyond the scope permitted by law or
to accept and perform professional responsibilities which the licensee knows or
has reason to know that he/she is not competent to perform.
   (U)   To knowingly delegate professional responsibilities to a person
unqualified by training, experience, or licensure to perform.
   (V)   To fail to provide information in response to a written request made
by the city within sixty (60) days.
   (W)   To have a habitual or excessive use of or addiction to alcohol,
narcotics, stimulants, or any other chemical agent or drug which results in the
inability to practice with reasonable judgment, skill or safety.
   (X)   To have a pattern of practice or other behavior that demonstrates
incapacity or incompetence to practice under this chapter.
   (Y)   To make a material misstatement in furnishing information to the city
or otherwise to make misleading, deceptive, untrue, or fraudulent
representations in violation of this chapter or otherwise in the practice of
massage therapy. (Ord. 0-01-02, 1-21-2002)
3-8-15: SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF LICENSE; APPEAL:
   (A)   The suspension, revocation and hearing procedures for any license
issued under this chapter shall be as set forth in section
3-1-17 of this title. The procedure for an appeal of a denial of an application
for a license or an appeal in connection of a revocation of a license shall be
as set forth in section
3-1-18 of this title.
   (B)   If a massage business license or a massage therapist license is
revoked for any cause, no such license shall be granted to such person, firm,
corporation or other entity for a period of one year after the date of the
revocation unless the revocation order has been vacated by court order. (Ord.
0-39-00, 12-18-2000, eff. 2-1-2001)
3-8-16: PENALTY; ENFORCEMENT:
The penalty for violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be as
set forth in subsection
3-1-22(A) of this title. The enforcement of the provisions of this chapter
shall be as set forth in subsections
3-1-22(B) and (C) of this title. Unless otherwise provided for herein, any
license issued under this chapter is subject to the provisions of chapter 1 of
this title. (Ord. 0-39-00, 12-18-2000, eff. 2-1-2001)
CHAPTER 9
DRIVE-THROUGH EATING ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-9-1: Receptacles
3-9-2: Hours Of Operation
3-9-1: RECEPTACLES:
   (A)   The owner, lessee or operator of a drive-through eating establishment
shall provide not less than two (2) receptacles for the receipt of trash,
litter, paper, napkins, cups and remnants of food at each exit, available to
the patrons as they leave said premises.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any patron of a drive-through eating
establishment to throw or deposit any of the litter mentioned in subsection (A)
of this section anywhere on the grounds or on the streets of the city, save and
except in the receptacles provided therefor. (Ord. 0-11-06, 3-20-2006)
3-9-2: HOURS OF OPERATION:
   (A)   An eating establishment may provide twenty four (24) hour drive-
through service. However, drive-through service shall only be operated from six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. until eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. when the eating
establishment is in close proximity to residential property. An eating
establishment is considered in close proximity to residential property when the
following conditions are met:
      1.   The eating establishment's lot is contiguous to a residentially
zoned lot so as there is an actual, physical connection between the lots with
nothing separating them such as a public right of way or another parcel. (A
detention basin in an outlot servicing the eating establishment is considered
part of the eating establishment's lot.); and
      2.   The eating establishment's structure and the residential structure
are within two hundred fifty feet (250') of each other. The term "structure"
includes an actual building and/or drive-through facility.
   (B)   One year from and after the effective date hereof, all existing drive-
through facilities associated with an eating establishment shall comply with
this section. (Ord. 0-11-06, 3-20-2006)
TITLE 4
BUILDING REGULATIONS
Darien Building Code   1
House Numbering   2
Sign Code   3
CHAPTER 1
DARIEN BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
4-1-1: Title, Citations And Substitutions
4-1-1-1: Title
4-1-1-2: Citations
4-1-1-3: Substitutions
4-1-2: General Provisions
4-1-2-1: Establishment Of Department Of Community Development
4-1-2-2: Director Of Community Development
4-1-3: Single-Family Dwellings, Duplexes And Two-Flat Building Construction
Regulations And Standards
4-1-3-1: Adoption Of International Residential Code
4-1-3-2: Amendments To Residential Code
4-1-3-3: Application To Buildings And Structures
4-1-4: Regulations And Standards For Construction Of All Other Buildings
Including Residential (Other Than One- And Two-Family), Assembly, Commercial,
Office, Storage, Educational, Industrial And Institutional
4-1-4-1: Adoption Of Building Code
4-1-4-2: Amendments To Building Code
4-1-4-3: Application To Buildings And Structures
4-1-5: Regulations And Standards Governing The Construction And Use Of
Mechanical Equipment
4-1-5-1: Adoption Of Mechanical Code
4-1-5-2: Amendments To Mechanical Code
4-1-5-3: Adoption Of Elevator Safety Code
4-1-5-4: Amendments To Elevator Safety Code
4-1-6: Standards And Specifications, Rules And Regulations Of Electrical Code
4-1-6-1: Adoption Of Electrical Code
4-1-6-2: Amendments To Electrical Code
4-1-7: Plumbing Installation, Alteration And Use Regulations And Standards
4-1-7-1: Adoption Of Plumbing Code
4-1-7-2: Additions To Plumbing Code
4-1-7-3: Amendments To Plumbing Code
4-1-8: Fire Prevention And Control Regulations And Standards
4-1-8-1: Adoption Of Fire Code
4-1-8-2: Amendments To Fire Code
4-1-8-3: Definitions And Additional Regulations Of Fire Code
4-1-9: Energy Conservation Code
4-1-9-1: Adoption Of Energy Conservation Code
4-1-9-2: Amendments To Energy Conservation Code
4-1-10: Existing Structures Regulations
4-1-10-1: Adoption Of Property Maintenance Code
4-1-10-2: Amendments To Property Maintenance Code
4-1-11: Adoption Of Fuel Gas Code
4-1-12: Adoption Of Swimming Pool And Spa Code
4-1-13: Adoption Of Accessibility Code
4-1-14: Permits And Fees
4-1-14-1: Permit Required; Issuance
4-1-14-2: General Requirements
4-1-14-3: Permit Fees
4-1-14-4: DuPage County Fair Share Transportation Impact Fee
4-1-14-5: Reduced Fees When Application Made By Local Government Body
4-1-15: Removal Of Certain Improvements In Business Districts
4-1-15-1: Removal Of Personal Property
4-1-15-2: Contact Person; Additional Information
4-1-15-3: Ongoing Maintenance
4-1-15-4: Penalty; Removal; Lien
4-1-16: Solar Code
4-1-16-1: Adoption Of Solar Code
4-1-16-2: Definitions
4-1-16-3: References
4-1-1: TITLE, CITATIONS AND SUBSTITUTIONS:
4-1-1-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the "DARIEN BUILDING CODE." (Ord. 0-43-12, 12-
17-2012; amd. Ord. O-08-25, 2-18-2025)
4-1-1-2: CITATIONS:
In citing this chapter, section numbers shall be used except in cases where
codes have been adopted and incorporated by reference, in which case the
section shall be followed by sections used in such code adopted and
incorporated by reference. (Ord. 0-43-12, 12-17-2012; amd. Ord. O-08-25, 2-18-
2025)
4-1-1-3: SUBSTITUTIONS:
Where codes have been adopted and incorporated by reference, the words "City of
Darien" shall be substituted for words referring to the applicable Municipality
and where such codes contain provisions which are in conflict with specific
provisions of this chapter the specific provisions of this chapter shall
prevail and shall rule. (Ord. 0-43-12, 12-17-2012; amd. Ord. O-08-25, 2-18-
2025)
4-1-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
4-1-2-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT:
   (A)   There is hereby established a department of the City known as the
Department of Community Development which shall embrace a Director of Community
Development, Senior Planner and such assistants, clerks and employees as may be
necessary
   (B)   All references in this Code, the Building Code, the zoning ordinance,
the Sign Code, the subdivision regulations, the Fire Prevention Code, and in
all other ordinances, resolutions and motions, and rules and regulations of the
City to the "Building Department", the "Building and Zoning Department", the
"Bureau of Fire Prevention", shall henceforth be construed to refer to and mean
the Department of Community Development. (Ord. 0-43-12, 12-17-2012; amd. Ord.
O-08-25, 2-18-2025)
4-1-2-2: DIRECTOR OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT:
   (A)   The Director of Community Development shall be appointed by the Mayor
with the advice and consent of the City Council and subject to removal by the
Mayor. The Director shall be in charge of the Department of Community
Development and shall institute such measures and prescribe such rules and
regulations for the control of subordinate officers and employees and shall
secure the inspection of buildings while in the process of construction,
alteration, repair or removal, and enforcement of all provisions of the
Building Code.
      The Director of Community Development is hereby authorized to employ, by
and with the consent of the City Administrator, such inspectors or assistants
as may be necessary in the execution of the duties mentioned in the Building
Code or other ordinances as may be from time to time required.
      The Director of Community Development is hereby authorized to require as
a condition to an application and issuance of a permit that the applicant pay
fees in addition to those otherwise provided herein of review by other than
staff members of plans and specifications.
   (B)   The duties of the Director of Community Development shall include, but
are not limited to, all of the duties of the Building Department Supervisor,
the Building Official, the Director of Building and Zoning, the Fire Official,
the Code Official, the Fire Marshal, the Chief of the Bureau of Fire
Prevention, the Zoning Enforcement Officer, the Building Commissioner, the City
Planner, the Building Inspector, the Building and Zoning Director and the
Building Supervisor as set forth in this Code, in the Building Code, in the
zoning ordinance, in the Sign Code, in the subdivision regulations, in the Fire
Prevention Code, and in all other ordinances, resolutions and motions, and
rules and regulations of the City.
      All references in this Code, the Building Code, the zoning ordinance, the
Sign Code, the subdivision regulations, the Fire Prevention Code, and in all
other ordinances, resolutions and motions, and rules and regulations of the
City to the "Building Department Supervisor", the "Building Official", the
"Director of Building and Zoning", the "Fire Official", the "Code Official",
the "Fire Marshal", the "Chief of the Bureau of Fire Prevention", the "Zoning
Enforcement Officer", the "Building Commissioner", the "City Planner", the
"Building Inspector", the "Building and Zoning Director" and the "Building
Supervisor" shall henceforth be construed to refer to and mean the Director of
Community Development. (Ord. 0-43-12, 12-17-2012; amd. Ord. O-08-25, 2-18-2025)
4-1-3: SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS, DUPLEXES AND TWO-FLAT BUILDING CONSTRUCTION
REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS:
4-1-3-1: ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE:
There is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference as a part of this
section, the code entitled 2021 International Residential Code, one copy of
which is on file in the office of the City. (Ord. 0-15-18, 8-6-2018; amd. Ord.
O-08-25, 2-18-2025)
4-1-3-2: AMENDMENTS TO RESIDENTIAL CODE:
The International Residential Code, as adopted in section
4-1-3-1 of this chapter, shall be amended as follows:
   (A)   Section R-101.1 - Insert the "city of Darien" for [name of
jurisdiction].
   (B)   Section R-108.2 - Revise to read as follows:
      See city code of Darien for appropriate fee schedules.
   (C)   Section R-113.4 - Revise to read as follows:
      Violation Penalties: See the city code of Darien for penalties for
violations of the provisions of this code.
   (D)   Table R301.2 (1) Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria. Insert the
following information in the table:
      Ground Snow Load = 25
      Wind Design Speed (MPH) = 90(40) 115(51)
      Topographic effects = No
      Seismic Design Category = B A
      Subject to Damage From Weathering = Severe
      Frost Line Depth = 42"
      Termite = Mod to Heavy
      Winter Design Temp = 10 degrees F
      Ice Barrier Underlayment Required = Yes
      Flood Hazards - 12/16/04 8/1/2019
      Air Freezing Index = 1700
      Mean Annual Temp = 50 50.6 degrees F
   (E)   Section R-302.1 and Table R-302.1(1) - Delete (Exterior Walls)
   (F)   Section 310.1 Emergency Escape and Rescue Required Exception 2 -
Delete.
   (G)   Section R-313 (Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems) - Add the following:
or provide 5/8" type x gypsum throughout.
   (H)   Section R-320 - Delete. (Accessibility)
   (I)   Section 321.3 - Delete. (Accessibility)
   (J)   Section R-322.1.9 - Delete. (Manufactured Homes)
   (K)   Section R-403.1 - Add the following: All footings for primary
structure shall bear on the seal of a licensed Illinois architect, structural
engineer or subject to the building official.
   (L)   Section R-403.2 - Delete. (Footings For Wood Foundations)
   (M)   Sections R-404.2 - Delete. (Wood Foundation Walls)
   (N)   Section R-405.2 - Delete. (Wood Foundations)
   (O)   Section R-406.3 - Delete. (Dampproofing For Wood Foundations)
   (P)   Chapter 25 - Delete. (Plumbing Administration)
   (Q)   Chapter 26 - Delete. (General Plumbing Requirements)
   (R)   Chapter 27 - Delete. (Plumbing Fixtures)
   (S)   Chapter 28 - Delete. (Water Heaters)
   (T)   Chapter 29 - Delete. (Water Supply And Distribution)
   (U)   Chapter 30 - Delete. (Sanitary Drainage)
   (V)   Chapter 31 - Delete. (Vents)
   (W)   Chapter 32 - Delete. (Traps)
   (X)   Chapter 33 - Delete. (Storm Drainage)
   (Y)   Agricultural Exception: Accessory buildings on existing, legal
nonconforming agricultural properties that are utilized as stables and
livestock shelters, where no vehicle storage will take place will be allowed in
accordance with the following requirements:
      1.   Required concrete floor slabs may be omitted in those specific areas
of livestock buildings or structures used by the livestock upon approval of the
director of community development.
      2.   Other than in subsection 1 above, floors shall be concrete, asphalt
or wood installed to prevent the seepage of hazardous, toxic or combustible
liquids into the ground.
      3.   All accessory buildings shall be securely anchored to the ground.
      4.   Pre-engineered accessory building kits shall be installed in
accordance with manufacturer's specifications and plans. (Ord. 0-43-12, 12-17-
2012; amd. Ord. 0-15-18, 8-6-2018; Ord. O-08-25, 2-18-2025)
4-1-3-3: APPLICATION TO BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
The rules and regulations adopted in section
4-1-3-1 of this chapter shall apply to the following buildings and structures:
   (A)   Single-family detached residences.
   (B)   Duplex houses (2 units side by side) and two-family apartments or
flats.
   (C)   Detached accessory structures. (Ord. 0-43-12, 12-17-2012; amd. Ord. O-
08-25, 2-18-2025)
4-1-4: REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF ALL OTHER BUILDINGS
INCLUDING RESIDENTIAL (OTHER THAN ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY), ASSEMBLY, COMMERCIAL,
OFFICE, STORAGE, EDUCATIONAL, INDUSTRIAL AND INSTITUTIONAL:
4-1-4-1: ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE:
There is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference as part of this section,
the code entitled the 2021 International Building Code, one copy of which is on
file in the office of the City. (Ord. 0-15-18, 8-6-2018; amd. Ord. O-08-25, 2-
18-2025)
4-1-4-2: AMENDMENTS TO BUILDING CODE:
The International Building Code as adopted in section
4-1-4-1 of this chapter, shall be amended as follows:
   (A)   Section 101.1 - Insert the "City of Darien" for [name of
jurisdiction].
   (B)   Section 105.2 - Work exempt from permit. Shall be amended as follows:
      1.   One-story detached accessory structures used as tool and storage
sheds, playhouses and similar uses, provided the floor area is not greater than
120 square feet (11 m2). - Delete.
      2.   Fences not over 7 feet (2134 mm) high. - Delete.
      6.   Sidewalks and driveways not more than 30 inches (762 mm) above
adjacent grade, and not over any basement or story below and are not part of an
accessible route. - Delete.
   (C)   Section 109.2 - Revise to read as follows:
         109.2 - See City Code of Darien for appropriate fee schedules.
   (D)   Section 114.4 - Revise to read as follows:
         114.4 - Violation Penalties: See City Code of Darien for penalties for
violations of the provisions of this code.
   (E)   Section 117.2 - Revise to read as follows:
         117.2 - A fine of not less than $100.00 or more than $1,000.00 for
each day the above violation shall be imposed.
   (F)   Section 903.2 - Revise to read as follows:
         An automatic fire suppression system shall be provided in all use
group B, E, F, M and S occupancies when a structure's gross square footage is
2,500 square feet or more.
   (G)   Section 903.2.1.1 - Revise to read as follows:
         An automatic fire suppression system shall be provided in use group A-
1 occupancies when a structure's gross square footage is 2,500 square feet or
more.
   (H)   Section 903.2.1.2 - Revise to read as follows:
         An automatic fire suppression system shall be provided in all use
group A-2 occupancies.
   (I)   Section 903.2.1.3 - Revise to read as follows:
         An automatic fire suppression system shall be provided in all use
group A-3 occupancies when a structure's gross square footage is 2,500 square
feet or more.
      (J)   Section 903.2.1.4 - Revise to read as follows:
      An automatic fire suppression system shall be provided in all use group
A-4 occupancies when a structure's gross square footage is 2,500 square feet or
more.
   (K)   Section 903.2.5 - Revise to read as follows:
         An automatic fire suppression system shall be provided in all use
group I occupancies.
         Exception:
            1.   Where use group I-2 child care facilities are located in R-
3 and R-4 occupancies in compliance with the Illinois department of child and
family services. (Ord. 0-43-12, 12-17-2012; amd. Ord. O-08-25, 2-18-2025)
4-1-4-3: APPLICATION TO BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
The Building Code adopted in section
4-1-4-1 of this chapter shall apply to all buildings and structures other than
one- and two-family residences and other buildings normally accessory to them.
(Ord. 0-43-12, 12-17-2012; amd. Ord. O-08-25, 2-18-2025)
4-1-5: REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS GOVERNING THE CONSTRUCTION AND USE OF
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT:
4-1-5-1: ADOPTION OF MECHANICAL CODE:
There is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference as part of this section,
the code entitled 2021 International Mechanical Code, one copy of which is on
file in the office of the City. (Ord. 0-15-18, 8-6-2018; amd. Ord. O-08-25, 2-
18-2025)
4-1-5-2: AMENDMENTS TO MECHANICAL CODE:
The International Mechanical Code as adopted in section
4-1-5-1 of this chapter, shall be amended as follows:
   (A)   Insert "the city of Darien" wherever the code refers to jurisdiction.
   (B)   Wherever fee schedules, dollar amounts, offenses, or time limits are
referred to in this code, the Code of the City of Darien shall apply. (Ord. 0-
43-12, 12-17-2012; amd. Ord. O-08-25, 2-18-2025)
4-1-5-3: ADOPTION OF ELEVATOR SAFETY CODE:
There is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference as part of this section,
the code entitled Illinois Elevator Safety Code (41 Ill. Adm. Code, chapter II,
part 1000, and as amended from time to time) one copy of which is on file in
the office of the City. (Ord. 0-15-18, 8-6-2018; amd. Ord. O-08-25, 2-18-2025)
4-1-5-4: AMENDMENTS TO ELEVATOR SAFETY CODE:
The Elevator Safety Code, as adopted in section
4-1-5-3 of this chapter, shall be amended as follows:
   (A)   Insert the "City of Darien" wherever the code refers to jurisdiction.
   (B)   Section 1.4: Definitions - Revise to read as follows:
         Building Code: The International Building Code as adopted in Section
4-1-4-1 of the City Code, and as amended from time to time. (Ord. 0-15-18, 8-6-
2018; amd. Ord. O-08-25, 2-18-2025)
4-1-6: STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS, RULES AND REGULATIONS OF ELECTRICAL CODE:
4-1-6-1: ADOPTION OF ELECTRICAL CODE:
The standards and specifications, rules and regulations of the National Fire
Protection Association National Electrical Code, 2020 edition, as published by
the National Fire Protection Association except as amended herein, are hereby
adopted as the standards and specifications, rules and regulations for
installation, alteration, repair and use of electrical equipment, subject
however, to the additional standards and specifications, rules and regulations
as hereinafter set forth, and except where they are in conflict with the other
provisions of this code and said code is hereby incorporated herein by
reference, one copy of which is on file in the office of the City. (Ord. 0-15-
18, 8-6-2018; amd. Ord. O-08-25, 2-18-2025)
4-1-6-2: AMENDMENTS TO ELECTRICAL CODE:
The 2020 Electrical Code, as adopted in section
4-1-6-1 of this chapter, shall be amended as follows:
   (A)   All conductors shall be copper.
   (B)   All services shall be installed in rigid metal or intermediate metal
conduit. Rigid aluminum may be used for above- ground installations only. EMT
shall not be used for electrical services.
   (C)   All underground electrical services shall be installed in rigid metal
conduit, intermediate metal conduit, or PVC.
   (D)   In poured concrete, only rigid metal conduit, intermediate metal
conduit, or PVC shall be used. PVC shall convert to rigid conduit prior to
emergence.
   (E)   Where used underground, PVC shall not emerge from below grade. PVC
shall convert to rigid metal conduit prior to emergence.
   (F)   All electrical wiring shall be installed in metal conduit, EMT, IMC,
or RMC only, except low voltage wiring. PVC may be permitted in wet or
corrosive areas.
   (G)   Twin, or tandem, circuit breakers are not acceptable for new work
unless specifically allowed per the electric service panel product
manufacturer.
   (H)   Section 210.8(A)(2) Garages… Exception to (2) - Add: "A receptacle, if
located in the ceiling, supplying only a permanently installed overhead garage
door opener system shall not be required to have ground fault circuit-
interrupter protection."
   (I)   Section 210.8(A)(5) Basements Exception to (5) - Shall be revised to
state: "A receptacle supplying a permanently installed fire alarm system,
burglar alarm system, ejector pump, sump pump, or furnace shall not be required
to have ground fault circuit-interrupter protection."
   (J)   Section 210.12 Arc Fault Circuit-Interrupter Protection - Delete.
   (K)   Section 210.52.(C)(2)(a) Island and Peninsular Countertops and Work
Surfaces - Shall be revised to state: "At least one receptacle shall be
installed at each island countertop space with a long dimension of 24 in. or
greater and a short dimension of 12 in or greater."
   (L)   Section 230.70 Service Equipment Disconnection Means General - Add:
The building official may wave this based on supply chain availability.
   (M)   Section 320 - Delete. (Armored Cable)
   (N)   Section 322 - Delete. (Flat Cable Assemblies)
   (O)   Section 324 - Delete. (Flat Conductor Cable)
   (P)   Section 326 - Delete. (Integrated Gas Spacer Cable)
   (Q)   Section 330.10(A), "Uses Permitted" - Add the following:
      MC Cable may be used for concealed work, in dry locations, where conduit
is not practical to install or to be fished through existing walls, ceilings,
or floors. Where exposed, MC Cable shall not be longer than three (3) feet
before converting to conduit.
   (R)   Section 334 - Delete. (Nonmetallic-Sheathed Cable)
   (S)   Section 338 - Delete. (Service-Entrance Cable)
   (T)   Section 340 - Delete. (Underground Feeder and Branch-Circuit Cable)
   (U)   Section 352.10, "Uses Permitted" - Revise to read as follows:
      "A", "C", "E", "F", and "H" are hereby deleted in their entirety. Section
352.10(D) may be approved on review of application.
   (V)   Section 355.10, "Uses Permitted" - Revise to read as follows:
      "A", "C", "E", and "F" are hereby deleted in their entirety.
   (W)   Section 362 - Delete. (Electrical Nonmetallic Tubing)
   (X)   Section 382 - Delete. (Nonmetallic Extensions)
   (Y)   Section 394 - Delete. (Concealed Knob-and-Tube Wiring)
   (Z)   Section 396 - Delete. (Messenger-Supported Wire)
   (AA)   Section 422.5(A) GFCI Protection for Personnel General - Delete
reference to 422.5(A)(6)(Sump pumps) and (7)(Dishwashers).
   (BB)   All flexible conduits shall contain an equipment grounding conductor
and not be longer than 6 feet. (Ord. 0-15-18, 8-6-2018; amd. Ord. O-08-25, 2-
18-2025)
4-1-7: PLUMBING INSTALLATION, ALTERATION AND USE REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS:
4-1-7-1: ADOPTION OF PLUMBING CODE:
There is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference as part of this section,
the code entitled Illinois Plumbing Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code, chapter 1, part
890, and as amended from time to time), one copy of which is on file in the
office of the City. (Ord. 0-15-18, 8-6-2018; amd. Ord. O-08-25, 2-18-2025)
4-1-7-2: ADDITIONS TO PLUMBING CODE:
Additions to the Illinois Plumbing Code, as adopted in section
4-1-7-1 of this chapter, are as follows:
   (A)   Closed water systems shall be required on all water using air
conditioning systems in new construction or remodeling.
   (B)   Water recycling systems shall be required on all new construction or
remodeled car wash equipment installations. (Ord. 0-30-15, 10-5-2015; amd. Ord.
O-08-25, 2-18-2025)
4-1-7-3: AMENDMENTS TO PLUMBING CODE:
The Illinois Plumbing Code, as adopted in section 4-1-7-1 of this chapter,
shall be amended as follows: (Ord. 0-30-15, 10-5-2015; amd. Ord. 0-15-18, 8-6-
2018)
   All new plumbing fixtures and irrigation controllers installed after the
effective date hereof shall bear the WaterSense label (as designated by the
U.S. environmental protection agency WaterSense program), when such labeled
fixtures are available. (Ord. 0-30-15, 10-5-2015)
4-1-8: FIRE PREVENTION AND CONTROL REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS:
4-1-8-1: ADOPTION OF FIRE CODE:
There is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference as part of this section,
the code entitled 2024 International Fire Code, printed in pamphlet form, one
copy of which is on file in the office of the City. (Ord. 0-15-18, 8-6-2018;
amd. Ord. O-08-25, 2-18-2025)
4-1-8-2: AMENDMENTS TO FIRE CODE:
The 2024 International Fire Code, as adopted in section
4-1-8-1 of this chapter shall be amended as follows:
   (A)   Section 101.1 - Insert "City of Darien" for [name of jurisdiction].
   (B)   Section 108 - Revise Board of Appeals to read:
      Whenever the chief of the bureau of fire prevention shall disapprove an
application, or refuse to grant a permit, or when it is claimed that the
provisions of this article have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the
applicant or person affected may appeal from the decision of the director of
building and zoning to the planning and zoning commission of the city of
Darien. Appeals made pursuant to this section shall be in accordance with the
procedures set forth in the city's zoning ordinance.
   (C)   Add Section 323, to read as follows:
      Section 323 - Miscellaneous Provisions.
      Section 323.1 - Hazardous Areas. Room used for storage, boiler or furnace
rooms, fuel storage, janitors' closets, and maintenance shops shall be
separated from other building areas by assemblies having a fire resistance
rating of not less than one hour with appropriate protection of openings into
the rooms.
      Section 323.2 - Fire Evacuation Procedure Notice. Owners, managers, and
agents of multiple dwelling units with more than six (6) units, motels, hotels
and places of assembly, served by a common entrance, shall post and maintain in
a conspicuous location within each dwelling unit and in access routes, a
written notice which explains what procedures to use in the event of a fire.
The notice shall contain a diagram of all fire exits.
   (D)   Add Section 324, to read as follows:
      Section 324 - Packing Materials. Materials used for protective packing
shall be kept in approved noncombustible containers.
      Section 324.1 - Removal of Packing and Waste Materials. No persons shall
store in any building excess amounts of combustible empty packing cases, wooden
or plastic pallets, barrels, boxes, rubber tires, shavings, excelsior, rubbish,
paper bags, litter, hay, straw and similar combustibles. Aisle ways and storage
of the abovementioned combustibles necessary for the performance of business
shall be kept in an orderly and neat manner. Combustible materials shall be
removed daily or more often as is necessary to suitable vaults, bins,
dumpsters, compactors or separate buildings. Such practices shall be as
approved by the fire official.
   (E)   Section 503.1- Revise to read as follows:
      Fire apparatus access roads shall be provided so that:
         1.   Public or private access is provided to each building so that the
first responding fire district pumper unit will be able to be so located that
all points of the interior of the building may be reached by one hundred fifty
(150) feet of initial attack hose.
            a.   Where the size of the building does not allow this regulation
to be met, an interior standpipe system equipped with fire department hose
connections approved by the fire official may be allowed as an exception. The
standpipe system shall be connected to a public water system.
         2.   Public or private access for motor fire apparatus shall be
provided around the building so that there may be proper operation of ladders
and mechanically elevated mechanisms.
         3.   Access routes shall be so arranged that fire department apparatus
may respond from all points of the building to adjacent fire hydrants along
routes not to exceed two hundred fifty (250) feet from the most remote point of
the building to the closest fire hydrant.
         4.   Fire lanes on private property shall be approved by the fire
official, and parking of motor vehicles otherwise obstructing such fire lanes
or access routes shall be prohibited at all times. Permanent all-weather signs
identifying fire lanes and access ways shall be posted.
         5.   In commercial developments public or private fire department
access roads and ways shall be all weather, properly maintained and accessible
at all times. A minimum of eight (8) inches of granular stone surfaced by at
least two (2) inches of bituminous asphalt material. Fire lanes in residential
developments shall be reviewed by the fire official for adequacy.
         6.   Access roads or fire lanes shall be not less than fifteen (15)
feet from the building and further if the height of the building requires a
greater setback to ladder the buildings.
         7.   Access routes shall be continuous around the building.
            a.   This requirement may be modified by the fire official where
adequate building access openings, a complete fire suppression system and high
rise provisions are provided.
   (F)   Revise Section 506.2.1 to read as follows:
      Section 506.2.1 - Fire Department Rapid Entry System. The fire official
shall require all new and existing construction that is required to be equipped
with an approved fire alarm system or sprinkler system to have an approved key
box system.
   (G)   Add Section 506.2.2 - Purpose. The purpose of the rapid entrance key
system is to allow the fire department to gain immediate access to a building
in emergency situations without forcible entry.
   (H)   Add Section 506.3 - Location. The approved key box shall not be
located more than 5 feet above grade.
   (I)   Add Section 506.4 - Contents. The approved key box shall contain a
key, keycards, etc. as needed to gain necessary access as required by the code
official.
   (J)   Add Section 506.5 - Alarms. At the request of the owner or lessee, the
fire code official shall permit him to install a key box tamper switch
connected to the building's alarm system. If the owner or lessee chooses to
connect the key box to an alarm, then they shall comply with the following
requirements:
      1.   If the building is protected by a burglar alarm system, the key box
shall be connected to that system.
      2.   If the building is not protected by a burglar alarm system, the key
box may be connected to the fire alarm providing the connection is on the
trouble side signaling an alarm. Connection to the fire alarm requires the key
box to be zoned separately from any fire detection and noted on the fire alarm
annunciator panel as KEY BOX.
   (K)   Section 507.5.1 - Revise to read as follows:
      Section 507.5.1- Fire Hydrant Locations. Water supplies shall be
delivered under pressure to fire hydrants located as follows:
         1.   Fire hydrants shall be located along public streets, fire lanes,
or access routes so that no portion of the building will be over 250 feet from
a public fire hydrant. Where this is not possible, additional hydrants shall be
located on the premises and be accessible to motorized fire apparatus.
         2.   In apartments, townhouses, condominiums, town/row or cluster
housing areas where streets or parking lots dead end, hydrants shall be placed
along the access route at a location approved by the fire official.
         3.   At least two (2) fire hydrants shall be located within 300 feet
of the building.
         4.   Hydrants should be so located that:
            a.   Hydrants will be located approximately ten (10) feet from all
weather roadways. If this cannot be done, the closest part of the hydrant shall
be set back at least two (2) feet from the curb.
            b.   Hydrants shall not be located further than 75 feet from any
fire department sprinkler or standpipe connection as determined by the code
official.
            c.   Hydrants shall not be located closer than 25 feet to a
building.
            d.   Hydrant outlets shall be a minimum of 18 inches but not more
than 36 inches above the finished grade.
            e.   Access to fire hydrants shall be all-weather roadways adequate
in width, clearance and strength for firefighting purposes. Such routes
including private roadways, shall be maintained accessible during all seasons
of the year.
         5.   Fire hydrants used in conjunction with water supplies shall have
two (21/2) inch and one (41/2) inch outlets with auxiliary gate valves on the
hydrant branch line. Threads shall be American national standard. Pumper
outlets shall face roadways.
         6.   Fire hydrants shall be protected from accidental damage by
approved methods when located in areas subject to vehicular damage.
   (L)   Revise Section 806.1.1 to read as follows:
      Section 806.1.1 - Restricted Occupancies. Natural cut trees shall only be
permitted in the dwelling units of group R-2 and R-3 occupancies.
   (M)   Revise Section 901.7 to read as follows:
      Section 901.7 - Systems Out of Service. Automatic fire suppression
systems shall not be out of service for more than eight (8) hours for
additions, alterations, maintenance or repairs without the approval of the fire
official or the designated representative. No alarm shall be out of service for
more than 24 consecutive hours.
   (N)   Section 905 - Standpipe Systems. Add the following:
      Class I standpipe systems shall be installed in all buildings where any
portion of the building's interior area is more than one hundred fifty (150)
feet of travel from the nearest point of fire district vehicle access.
   (O)   Add Section 905.13, to read as follows:
      Section 905.13 - Standpipe Flow Switch. All standpipe systems shall have
flow switches interconnected to the building fire alarm system.
   (P)   Section 906.1 - add the following:
      7.   Within five (5) feet of all exit doors. If there are practical
difficulties in locating the fire extinguisher within five (5) feet of an exit
door, then the code official shall designate an approved location.
   (Q)   Section 907.1.4 - Revise to read as follows:
      Section 907.1.4 - Design. The system shall be designed and installed in
accordance with the National Fire Protection Association no. 72, installation,
maintenance and use of protective signaling systems, 2022 edition, with
automatic detectors designed and installed in accordance with the National Fire
Protection Association
   (R)   Revise the title of Section 907.2 to read:
      Section 907.2 - Fire Alarm And Automatic Detection Required.
   (S)   Section 907.2.1 - Delete and replace with the following:
      Section 907.2.1 - All Other Use Groups Except R-3. In all buildings with
floor areas greater than two thousand (2,500) square feet, fire alarm systems
shall be required and approved by the code official for the particular
application. Detection devices shall be compatible with the hazards and purpose
for alarm.
      Each building which is required to be built pursuant to the 2021
International Building Code as adopted by the city of Darien, having a required
F.A. system shall be equipped with a wireless radio connection, approved by the
code official, between its automatic fire detection equipment and such
appropriate dispatch station as utilized by the fire protection district or
department which services the structure.
      Assembly. Both new and existing educational and institutional use groups
shall be equipped with an approved fire alarm system. This shall include
assembly and educational uses with 20 or more occupants.
   (T)   Section 907.2.2 - Delete and replace with the following:
      Section 907.2.2 - Alarm systems in use group R-1, R-2 and R-3 (except for
detached single-family dwelling structures) shall comply with the following:
Approved automatic fire detection shall be provided to protect new and existing
multi-family buildings, which include apartments of three (3) or more units,
townhouses and similar uses.
      1.   Approved automatic smoke detection devices wired to an activated
living unit electrical circuit shall be provided in the vicinity of all
bedrooms and elsewhere, based on room arrangements, in each living unit.
         a.   The wiring shall allow for easy removal and replacement of the
device.
         b.   Each detector shall include an audible alerting device.
            i.   Approved fixed temperature devices shall be provided in each
living unit near the kitchen and living room areas, with not less than one
installed on each floor level. These shall be part of the fire alarm system.
            ii.   Generally unattended areas such as storage rooms, garages,
combustible unattended areas, elevator shafts, furnace rooms, basements, attic
spaces, crawl spaces and similar areas shall be protected by approved heat
detection devices.
            iii.   Approved smoke detection devices shall be provided in all
public or common egress routes, including corridors, stairways, exit hallways,
etc.
            iv.   All devices, except living unit smoke detectors (from 1.
above), shall be interconnected to an approved control panel with an audible
alerting system servicing all floors of the building.
            v.   A zone indicator panel shall be provided in any building
having multiple living units, with each zone serving more than one floor.
   (U)   Section 907.2.3 - Delete Exception 3.
   (V)   Section 907.2.4 - Delete and replace with the following:
   Section 907.2.4 - Automatic Sprinklers. Where automatic sprinklers provide
protection to an area, approved flow and tamper switches interconnected to the
fire alarm system shall be provided.
   (W)   Section 907.2.7 - Delete Exception 2.
   (X)   Section 907.2.8.1 - Delete Exception 2.
   (Y)   Section 907.2.9.1 - Delete Exception 2.
   (Z)   Section 907.2.10.1 - Delete Exception 2.
   (AA)   Section 907.6.2 - Revise to read as follows:
      Section 907.6.2 - Power Supplies. A primary power supply source for the
operation of the system under normal conditions shall be provided. A secondary
power supply for operation of the system shall be by a U.L. approved energy
device or minimum 60-hour storage battery or engine driven generator.
   (BB)   Section 907.6.4 - Revise to read as follows:
      Section 907.6.4 - Zones. Each floor and each area over 15,000 square feet
in area shall be separately zoned. Each type of system (sprinkler, halon,
alarm, etc.) shall be separately zoned.
   (CC)   Add Section 907.6.4.3, to read as follows: Each sprinkler system need
only be zoned per floor for a flow alarm.
   (DD)   Add Section 907.11, to read as follows: The fire protection district
shall have access at any time of the day or night to the fire alarm control
panel without entering an individual living (dwelling) unit. The fire alarm
panel must be installed in an approved climate controlled, weather protected
closet with 24-hour access from the exterior of the building.
   (EE)   Section 1013.3 - Revise to read as follows:
      Section 1013.3 Emergency Power For Illumination. Emergency lighting shall
be equipped with power supplies from an independent, approved reliable source
(battery or automatic starting generator). Emergency lighting shall be provided
in all rooms and spaces over 2,000 square feet in area, or in rooms with an
occupancy load of 20 or more. When required, emergency lighting shall be
installed in stairways, corridors, access routes and other exit components.
Multi-family building - emergency lighting will be required in all existing and
new multifamily buildings in stairways, corridors, exit access and other exit
components.
   (FF)   Add Section 1013.3.1, to read as follows:
      Section 1013.3.1 - Number And Location Of Exits. All rooms or spaces with
accommodations for 20 or more persons or over 2,000 square feet in area and
each floor shall have 2 separate means of egress.
   (GG)   Add Section 5600.1.1.6, to read as follows:
      Section 5600.1.1.6 - Bond And Responsibility. Bond and responsibility for
fireworks display and discharge requires "public liability insurance" in the
amounts of not less than $2,000,000 bodily injury and $500,000. The city of
Darien and the local fire protection district shall be added as an "additional
insured."
   (HH)   Add Section 5706.9, to read as follows:
      Section 5706.9 - Special Dispensers. Special type dispensers such as
coin, key or card-operated devices, for self service operation by the general
public are prohibited unless there is an attendant on duty at all times. (Ord.
0-43-12, 12-17-2012; amd. Ord. O-08-25, 2-18-2025)
4-1-8-3: DEFINITIONS AND ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS OF FIRE CODE:
   (A)   Definitions:
      1.   Fire Prevention Code Or Code: Wherever the words "Fire Prevention
Code" or "code" are used in the codes adopted herein by reference, they shall
be held to mean the City of Darien 2024 International Fire Code.
      2.   Municipality: Wherever the word "Municipality" is used in the codes
adopted herein by reference, it shall be held to mean the City of Darien.
      3.   City: Wherever the word "City" is used in the codes adopted herein
by reference, it shall be held to mean the City of Darien.
      4.   Corporation Counsel: Wherever the term "corporation counsel" is used
in the codes adopted herein by reference, it shall be held to mean the legal
counsel for the City of Darien.
      5.   Fire Official, Code Official, Fire Marshal, Authority Having
Jurisdiction Or Chief Of The Bureau Of Fire Prevention: Wherever the term "fire
official", "code official", "Fire Marshal", "authority having jurisdiction" or
"Chief of the Bureau of Fire Prevention" is used in the codes adopted herein by
reference, it shall be held to mean the Director of Community Development or
his designee.
      6.   Bureau Of Fire Prevention: Wherever the term "Bureau of Fire
Prevention" is used in the codes adopted herein by reference, it shall be held
to mean Department of Community Development.
   (B)   Administrative Bodies:
      1.   The Fire Prevention Code shall be enforced by the Department of
Community Development of the City.
      2.   The person in general charge of the Department of Community
Development shall be the Director of Community Development.
      3.   The Director of the Community Development Department may detail
additional personnel as inspectors to assist in enforcing this chapter.
   (C)   Permit and Approvals:
      1.   Special Permits: Where special permits are required, application
shall be made to the Director of the Department of Community Development. The
Director shall determine criteria, limitations and duration of permits until
the appropriate requirements are met.
   (D)   Explosives and Blasting Agents:
      1.   The storage, handling and use of explosives and blasting agents is
prohibited within the City.
         a.   Exception: By special permit from the Director of Community
Development.
   (E)   Flammable Liquids; Liquefied Petroleum Gases:
      1.   The storage of flammable liquids in outdoor aboveground tanks is
prohibited.
         a.   Exception: By special permit from the Director of Community
Development.
   (F)   Manufacturing And Storage Of Fireworks Prohibited: The manufacture and
storage of fireworks is prohibited within the corporate limits of the City,
except by special permit issued by the Director of Community Development.
   (G)   Emergency Conditions: When in the opinion of the Director of Community
Development or his designee there is actual and immediate danger because of
hazardous conditions which endanger life or may cause effects upon adjoining
properties, the bureau may order the building to be immediately vacated and
cause immediate remedial action if necessary. The cost of such remedial action
shall be borne by the owner of the premises.
   (H)   Modification: The Director of Community Development and the City
Administrator shall have power to modify any of the provisions of the Fire
Prevention Code upon application in writing by the owner or lessee, or his duly
authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying
out the strict letter of the code; provided that the spirit of the code shall
be observed, public safety and substantial justice done. The particulars of
such modification, when granted or allowed, and the decision of the Fire
Marshal shall be entered upon the records of the department and a signed copy
shall be furnished the applicant.
   (I)   New Materials, Processes Or Occupancies Requiring Permits: Upon a
written request to employ new materials, processes or occupancies which require
a permit or otherwise alter the provisions of the Fire Code, in addition to
those now enumerated in said code, the Director of Community Development shall
forward said request along with supporting documentation and other applicable
information as determined by the Director of Community Development and City
Administrator to the building plan review and building inspection consultants
employed by the City, to the local fire district and when applicable, to the
City Engineer, for their review and recommendation. Upon receipt of the
recommendations from these sources, the Director of Community Development and
City Administrator shall either approve or deny said request. In either
situation, the determination made shall be posted in a conspicuous place at the
Darien City Hall, and copies shall be distributed to all parties.
   (J)   Penalties: The penalty for violation of this code shall be in
accordance with the City Code penalty section. (Ord. 0-43-12, 12-17-2012; amd.
Ord. O-08-25, 2-18-2025)
4-1-9: ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE:
4-1-9-1: ADOPTION OF ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE:
There is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference as part of this section,
the code entitled Illinois Energy Conservation Code (71 Illinois Administrative
Code, Ch. 1, Subch. d, Part 600), and as amended from time to time by the State
of Illinois, one copy of which is on file in the office of the City. (Ord. 0-
15-18, 8-6-2018; amd. Ord. 0-26-19, 10-7-2019; amd. Ord. O-08-25, 2-18-2025)
4-1-9-2: AMENDMENTS TO ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE:
   (A)   Section 101.1 - Insert city of Darien for [name of jurisdiction].
(Ord. 0-43-12, 12-17-2012; amd. Ord. O-08-25, 2-18-2025)
4-1-10: EXISTING STRUCTURES REGULATIONS:
4-1-10-1: ADOPTION OF PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE:
There is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference as part of this section,
the code entitled 2021 International Property Maintenance Code, printed in
pamphlet form by the International Code Council, including no errata sheets
inserted therein as modified in certain respects as set forth herein, one copy
of which is on file in the office of the City. (Ord. 0-15-18, 8-6-2018; amd.
Ord. O-08-25, 2-18-2025)
4-1-10-2: AMENDMENTS TO PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE:
There is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference as part of this section,
the code entitled 2021 The International Property Maintenance Code, as adopted
in section
4-1-10-1 of this chapter shall be amended as follows:
   (A)   Section 101.1 - Insert "city of Darien" for [name of jurisdiction].
   (B)   Section 106.4 - Penalties. Revise to read as follows:
      See the city code of Darien for penalties for violations of the
provisions of this code.
   (C)   Section 111.4.2 - Revise to read as follows:
      Such notice shall be deemed to be properly served where a copy thereof is
served in accordance with one of the following methods:
      1.   A copy is delivered personally.
      2.   A copy is sent by certified, registered, or regular mail addressed
to the owner at the last known address.
      3.   A copy is delivered electronically via email.
      4.   A copy is delivered in any other manner as prescribed by local law.
      If the letter or email is returned showing the that the letter was not
delivered, a copy thereof shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about
the structure or property affected by such notice. Service of such notice in
the foregoing manner upon the owner's agent or upon the person responsible for
the structure or property shall constitute serviced of notice upon the owner.
(Ord. 0-43-12, 12-17-2012; amd. Ord. O-08-25, 2-18-2025)
4-1-11: ADOPTION OF FUEL GAS CODE:
There is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference as part of this section,
the code entitled 2021 International Fuel Gas Code, printed in pamphlet form by
the International Code Council, including no errata sheets inserted therein as
modified in certain respects as set forth herein, one copy of which is on file
in the office of the City. (Ord. 0-15-18, 8-6-2018; amd. Ord. O-08-25, 2-18-
2025)
4-1-12: ADOPTION OF SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE:
There is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference as part of this section,
the code entitled 2021 International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, printed in
pamphlet form by the International Code Council, including no errata sheets
inserted therein as modified in certain respects as set forth herein, one copy
of which is file in the office of the City. (Ord. 0-15-18, 8-6-2018; amd. Ord.
O-08-25, 2-18-2025)
4-1-13: ADOPTION OF ACCESSIBILITY CODE:
There is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference as part of this section,
the code entitled Illinois Accessibility Code (71 Ill. Adm. Code, chapter I,
subchapter b, and as amended from time to time), one copy of which is on file
in the office of the City. (Ord. 0-15-18, 8-6-2018)
4-1-14: PERMITS AND FEES:
4-1-14-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; ISSUANCE:
A building permit, as provided for herein, shall first be required before any
construction, alteration, repair or removal within the City shall be commenced.
No work shall be done and no permit as required by these regulations shall be
issued until the fee prescribed therefor has been paid and all other
requirements for such permit have been met. (Ord. 0-43-12, 12-17-2012; amd.
Ord. 0-15-18, 8-6-2018)
4-1-14-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Plat Of Survey With Application: A plat of survey shall be submitted
with a building permit application. The plat of survey shall be prepared by a
registered land surveyor of the State of Illinois and include topographical
data showing existing contours at vertical intervals of not less than two feet
(2'), proposed changes in contours, proposed foundation and elevations and
other land improvements within the platted property and surrounding properties.
Topographical data shall refer to true USGS elevation standards.
   (B)   Spotted Survey Required: Two (2) copies of a spotted survey will be
required within fourteen (14) days after the foundation is placed on the lot.
The spotted survey shall include the true USGS elevations of the top of
foundation wall and existing grade of curb, sidewalk or existing grade of
street or roadway. It shall also include all building setbacks from the
property boundaries. No construction will be permitted past the decking over
the foundation except for water, sanitary sewer and related items unless such
survey has been filed and approved by the Department of Community Development
staff.
   (C)   Final Grading Survey Required: Two (2) copies of a final grading
survey will be required no less than four (4) days prior to the request for
final occupancy. The final grading survey shall include topographical data
showing final contours at vertical intervals of not less than two feet (2')
based on true USGS elevation standards. A certificate of occupancy will not be
issued until the final grading survey is approved by the City Engineer.
In any residential zoning district, no permit may be issued for additional work
if there remains uncompleted other work on the premises for which a building
permit has been issued for more than twelve (12) months.
   (D)   Duration Of Permits:
      1.   Duration: The duration of a building permit shall be one year from
the date of issuance.
      2.   Permit Extensions: Upon approval of the building official, a
building permit may be extended for a period not to exceed six (6) months on
payment of fifty percent (50%) of the original building permit fee.
      3.   One Permit Limit: No more than one building permit shall be issued
for a property unless construction required under the first building permit
continues at a reasonable level.
      4.   Suspension Of Permit: Any building permit issued, but under which no
work has commenced within six (6) months after issuance of the permit, or if
the authorized work is suspended or abandoned for a period of six (6) months
after the time of commencing, the permit shall expire by its own terms. The
permit must be surrendered to the building inspector within ten (10) days after
its expiration, and fees paid therefor shall be forfeited to the City. Upon
such surrender, fifty percent (50%) of the total permit fee shall be refunded.
   (E)   Contractor Registration Requirements:
      1.   All contractors shall obtain a City contractor's license. This shall
include all subcontractors. The Darien contractor's license year runs from May
1 to April 30. There is an annual fee with a one-half (1/2) year fee after
November 1.
      2.   Electrical contractors shall give evidence of good standing by
supplying a copy of the registration with any other city, county or state
jurisdiction in Illinois.
      3.   Plumbing contractors must be licensed with the State of Illinois and
shall submit a copy of their license.
      4.   Roofing contractors must be licensed with the State of Illinois and
shall submit a copy of their license.
      5.   All contractors, except for plumbers, roofers, lawn sprinkler and
fire alarm contractors, shall submit the following to the City:
         (a)   A ten thousand dollar ($10,000.00) license bond. The general
contractor may submit a twenty thousand dollar ($20,000.00) license bond in
lieu of separate bonds on each subcontractor.
         (b)   A certificate of liability insurance.
         (c)   Sixty dollar ($60.00) annual fee.
      6.   License bond requirement may be waived where the owner of a single-
family house is acting as a general contractor.
   (F)   Construction Vehicle Driveways: For any construction which does not
include a hard surface for construction vehicles, a stone driveway must be laid
within five (5) days of the placement of a foundation on a property.
   (G)   Erosion Control Devices: Erosion control devices such as silt fencing
or hay bales shall be erected around the perimeter of any property under
construction which includes earthwork.
   (H)   Sidewalk Construction Required Along Major Arterial Streets:
      1.   The City shall not issue any building permits for construction
taking place along "major arterial streets", as defined hereafter, unless the
applicant for the building permit and the owner of the property shall execute
an acknowledgement that no occupancy permit for the building or structure will
be issued unless sidewalks, constructed in accordance with the ordinances of
the City, are installed along such major arterial streets prior to the
occupancy of the building or structure. In lieu of the installation of the
sidewalk prior to occupancy, and at the option of the City, the owner of the
property may post a cash deposit with the City equal to the then current cost
of installing the sidewalk or such other security acceptable to the City. This
cash sum or other security shall be retained by the City until such time as it
is most convenient for the City to install or to have installed such sidewalk
segment either singly or as part of a larger sidewalk construction program. If,
at the time the sidewalk is eventually installed, the cost of installing the
sidewalk shall exceed the amount of the cash sum or other security posted, the
owner shall be obligated, upon thirty (30) days' written notice, to increase
the amount of that cash sum or other security in an amount sufficient to enable
the City to install or to have installed the sidewalk. In the event that the
cost of installing the sidewalk shall be less than the cash sum or other
security deposited with the City, the amount of such excess will be returned to
the owner after the sidewalk is installed and all costs for the installation of
the sidewalk have been paid.
      2.   For the purpose of this subsection, "major arterial streets" within
the City shall be defined as follows:
         Bailey Road.
         Cass Avenue.
         Clarendon Hills Road.
         Lemont Road.
         Manning Road.
         North and South Frontage Roads.
         Plainfield Road.
         Route 83.
         75th Street.
         83rd Street.
      3.   Any person who violates any provision of this subsection (H) shall
upon conviction thereof be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00). Every day upon which a violation of this
subsection (H) takes place shall be deemed to be a separate offense.
   (I)   Permitted Hours Of Construction:
      1.   No construction for which a building permit is required under this
chapter shall commence before the hour of six thirty o'clock (6:30) A.M. or
continue after the hour of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on Monday through Friday,
or commence before the hour of seven thirty o'clock (7:30) A.M. or continue
after the hour of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on Saturday or Sunday.
      2.   Any person who violates any provision of this subsection (I) shall
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for a first offense. Any person who violates any provision of
this subsection (I) a second or subsequent time shall be fined not less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). In
addition, violation of this provision may be deemed cause for revocation of the
building permit. (Ord. 0-43-12, 12-17-2012; amd. Ord. 0-15-18, 8-6-2018)
4-1-14-3: PERMIT FEES:
   (A)   Plan Review Fees: Plan review fees are accessed through outside
professional services.
Single-family residence               $315.00
Residential additions                 215.00
Detached garage                       115.00
Multi-family residence                $315.00 per dwelling unit
Basement remodeling, deck, shed, etc. $115.00
                                      $0.003 x construction cost as determined
Commercial, office, industrial        by the most current publication of the
                                      "Means Cost Estimating Guide"
Elevators, escalators, dumbwaiters,   $100.00
platform lifts
Parking lots                          100.00
Sign permits                          50.00
Resubmittals                          $65.00 for each
 
The City reserves the right to employ outside review of any and all plans
submitted and the cost of such review will be paid by the applicant.
   (B)   Construction Permit Fees:
      1.   Computing Fees: For the purposes of computing fees, all subordinate
detached buildings, the use of which is clearly related to that of the main
building located on the same plot, shall be considered to constitute a part of
the main building when included in the same application for a building permit
or when a permit is obtained for the detached subordinate building or buildings
before occupancy of the main building.
      2.   Building Permit: The building permit fee for all new construction,
additions, and alterations shall be based on the estimated cost of construction
including all structural, electrical, plumbing, mechanical interior finish and
site preparation elements. The following table sets forth said fees:
Construction Cost Fee
Construction Cost         Fee
$0.00 - $8,000.00         $ 75.00
$8,001.00 - $15,000.00    150.00
$15,001.00 - $20,000.00   200.00
$20,001.00 - $25,000.00   250.00
$25,001.00 - $35,000.00   500.00
$35,001.00 - $50,000.00   750.00
$50,001.00 - $75,000.00   1,000.00
$75,001.00 - $100,000.00  1,250.00
$100,001.00 - $150,000.00 1,500.00
$150,001.00 - $200,000.00 2,000.00
Over $200,000.00          2,500.00+ $10.00/$1,000.00
 
      3.   Plumbing Permits 1 : A separate plumbing permit shall be required
when plumbing work is not performed in connection with a required building
permit for new construction, alterations, additions, repairs or accessory uses.
The plumbing permit fee shall be based on the following schedule:
 
Residential    $50.00
Nonresidential 50.00
 
      4.   Electrical Permits: An electrical permit shall be required when
electrical work is not performed in connection with a required building permit
for new construction, alterations, additions, repairs or accessory uses. The
electrical permit fee shall be based on the following schedule:
 
Residential    $50.00
Nonresidential 50.00
 
      5.   Elevator Permits:
 
Dumbwaiter                       30.00
Elevator                         50.00
Escalator                        50.00
Hinged platform lift             50.00
Movable stage or orchestra floor 50.00
Platform lift                    50.00
 
All existing elevators shall be inspected annually, at the cost of the property
owner.
      6.   Permits For Tanks For Flammable Liquids:
 
Class 1 and 2 (1,000 gallon capacity)                      $50.00
Each 100 gallons or fraction thereof over 1,000            Add $2.00
Class 3 and 4 (550 gallons or less)                        $40.00
Each additional 1,000 gallons or fraction thereof over 550 Add $2.00
 
      7.   Other Permits Which May Require Plan Review Fee:
Building demolition:
500 square feet or less                 $ 50.00
Over 500 square feet                    100.00
Commercial air conditioner              150.00
Deck                                    50.00
Detached garage:
Up to 800 square feet                   100.00
Driveways/parking lots:
                                        $50.00 for private portion of driveway;
Residential                             $75.00 for private and work within
                                        street right-of-way
Nonresidential                          $100.00
Fence                                   25.00
Fire protection systems, including, but
not limited to, range hoods,            50.00
sprinklers, alarms
Heating system/furnace                  50.00
Incinerator (State approved):
5 square feet or less                   50.00
Each additional 5 square feet           5.00
Residential air conditioner             50.00
Satellite dish                          50.00
Shed:
100 to 800 square feet                  50.00
Steam boiler                            75.00
Swimming pool:
Aboveground                             50.00
Inground                                100.00
Tank removal                            100.00
Other permits                           50.00
 
      8.   Sign Permits 1 : The erection, construction or alteration of any
sign, or its advertising structure, marquee, canopy or awning, requires a sign
permit based on the following schedule:
 
Illuminated signs plus $2.00 per square foot of gross surface area of $200.00
each face thereof
Marquees, canopies and awnings plus $0.20 per square foot of gross    20.00
surface area
Nonilluminated signs (unless temporary) plus $1.00 per square foot of 100.00
gross surface area of each face thereof
Permanent residential development sign as described in subsection     No charge
4-3-10(A)3 of this title
Reface of existing sign                                               $100.00
Temporary signs                                                       35.00
 
      9.   Other Fees:
Elevator inspection         50.00
Final occupancy             50.00
Reinspection:
First occurrence            80.00
Second occurrence           100.00
Violation of Building Code:
First offense               100.00
Subsequent offense          200.00
Work started without permit 2 times standard fee
 
   (C)   Independent Inspectors: The City may, from time to time, hire an
independent inspector to make inspections which cannot be performed by the
staff building inspectors. The cost of said inspections shall be paid by the
builder.
   (D)   Reinspections: Whenever a reinspection is required, due to inaccurate
information or construction, an additional fee of eighty dollars ($80.00) shall
be charged for the first reinspection. A one hundred dollar ($100.00) fee shall
be charged for each additional reinspection after the first reinspection. This
fee shall be payable prior to the reinspection being performed.
   (E)   Failure To Receive Required Inspection: If a builder fails to receive
a required inspection and continues to work, there shall be a one hundred
dollar ($100.00) fee. A building inspector may require removal of any
unauthorized work in order to adequately make a required inspection.
   (F)   Work Started Without A Permit: Whenever work for which a permit is
required is commenced without a permit, the applicant shall pay the following
additional fees:
Fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) of
construction cost, and twenty dollars ($20.00) per one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) of additional cost of construction in order to reimburse the City
for clerical, inspection and other administrative expenses.
   (G)   Permit Pick Up: Building permits must be picked up within sixty (60)
days of approval. If a permit is not picked up within sixty (60) days, it will
become null and void and the applicant will be charged the applicable plan
review fee.
   (H)   Temporary Certificate Of Occupancy (Valid For A Period Not To Exceed
120 Days):
 
Residential $100.00 plus cash bond for cost of outstanding work
Commercial  $150.00 plus cash bond for cost of outstanding work
 
   In addition, the seller/owner of any property for which a temporary
certificate of occupancy is sought shall post the following sums to ensure the
completion of incomplete items as follows:
 
Asphalt driveway approach/private driveway             $10.00 per square foot
Concrete driveway approach/private driveway            $15.00 per square foot
Private landscaping                                    $4,000.00
Public landscaping, infrastructure, storm sewer, storm 3,000.00
sewer structure and water valves
Sidewalk                                               $15.00 per square foot
Site grading                                           $5,000.00
 
Such sums shall be released upon the issuance of a final certificate of
occupancy. In the event all or a portion of said work is not completed by the
expiration of the prescribed period of not to exceed one hundred twenty (120)
days, the City may, in its discretion, release such funds to the property owner
or cause uncompleted work to be completed.
   (I)    Final Certificate Of Occupancy:   $50.00
(Ord. 0-43-12, 12-17-2012; amd. Ord. 0-15-18, 8-6-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  6B-3-10 of this Code.
1 1. See also chapter 3 of this title.
4-1-14-4: DUPAGE COUNTY FAIR SHARE TRANSPORTATION IMPACT FEE:
In addition to any other requirements of this Code, no building permit or
occupancy permit shall issue for improvements subject to the requirements of
the DuPage County fair share transportation impact fee ordinance, county
ordinance OTD-021-89, as said ordinance may be amended from time to time, until
the applicant for such permit furnishes the City with a copy of a receipt of
payment of DuPage County's impact fee. (Ord. 0-43-12, 12-17-2012; amd. Ord. 0-
15-18, 8-6-2018)
4-1-14-5: REDUCED FEES WHEN APPLICATION MADE BY LOCAL GOVERNMENT BODY:
   (A)   Whenever a local governmental body (school district, library district,
fire protection district, park district, community college district, County,
forest preserve) makes application for work for which a permit fee is required
pursuant to this title or any other title of this Code, the permit fee will be
reduced by a percentage equal to the percentage that such governmental body's
taxable property, as determined by the most recent assessed valuation, is also
taxable property within the City of Darien. For example, if ninety five percent
(95%) of a local governmental body's assessed valuation is located within the
City of Darien, then the permit fee shall be reduced by ninety five percent
(95%).
   (B)   Local governmental permit applicants shall be required to pay or
reimburse the City for any actual expenses (such as consultant plan review
fees) incurred by the City as part of the City's permit application review.
   (C)   Local governmental permit applicants shall provide the City of Darien
with sufficient information showing the assessed valuation calculation in order
to have a permit fee reduction. (Ord. 0-43-12, 12-17-2012; amd. Ord. 0-15-18,
8-6-2018)
4-1-15: REMOVAL OF CERTAIN IMPROVEMENTS IN BUSINESS DISTRICTS:
4-1-15-1: REMOVAL OF PERSONAL PROPERTY:
Whenever any improved property located in one of the City's business districts
has been out of operation for more than three (3) months, the owner of the
property shall remove the following items of personal property therefrom:
   (A)   Freestanding signage;
   (B)   Canopies or canopy superstructures (specifically in the case of
automobile service stations);
   (C)   Directional signage;
   (D)   Accessory structures, dumpsters;
   (E)   Gasoline pumps. (Ord. 0-43-12, 12-17-2012; amd. Ord. 0-15-18, 8-6-
2018)
4-1-15-2: CONTACT PERSON; ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:
At the direction of the City the owner and/or authorized agent of any business
referred to hereinabove shall provide the City with the following information:
   (A)   Name, address, daytime and emergency phone number of responsible
parties;
   (B)   Good faith estimate of time building is expected to remain vacant;
   (C)   Status of any compliance measures required by other governmental
agencies, including, but not limited to, the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency and Illinois State Fire Marshal Office.
The information provided above shall be updated on a quarterly basis. (Ord. 0-
43-12, 12-17-2012; amd. Ord. 0-15-18, 8-6-2018)
4-1-15-3: ONGOING MAINTENANCE:
The owner of any such abandoned building shall maintain landscaping on the
grounds, including the parkway, in a reasonable condition, in compliance with
all City ordinances regarding maintenance and outdoor landscaping. All
buildings shall be secured. Debris, graffiti, abandoned vehicles, and garbage
shall be removed from the property within forty eight (48) hours' notice by the
City. (Ord. 0-43-12, 12-17-2012; amd. Ord. 0-15-18, 8-6-2018)
4-1-15-4: PENALTY; REMOVAL; LIEN:
Any owner of property who fails to remove the improvements identified herein
within fourteen (14) days of notice from the City, and who fails to maintain
the property in accordance with the provisions of this section
4-1-15 shall be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) and not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day's
violation shall be considered a separate offense. The City may enter upon the
property to cause the removal of the structures which are maintained on such
property in violation of this provision. In such case the City's costs, along
with a reasonable administrative fee, shall operate as a lien against that
property. In such case, the City Administrator shall cause a notice of lien to
be filed against the property in the Office of the DuPage County Recorder of
Deeds. (Ord. 0-43-12, 12-17-2012; amd. Ord. 0-15-18, 8-6-2018)
4-1-16: SOLAR CODE:
4-1-16-1: ADOPTION OF SOLAR CODE:
There is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference as part of this section
4-1-16, the code entitled 2015 International Solar Energy Provisions (ISEP) of
the International Code Council, three (3) copies of which are on file in the
office of the City. (Ord. 0-18-17, 11-6-2017; amd. Ord. 0-15-18, 8-6-2018)
4-1-16-2: DEFINITIONS:
BUILDING INTEGRATED: A building mounted solar energy system that is an integral
part of a principal or accessory building, rather than a separate mechanical
device, replacing or substituting for an architectural or structural part of
the building. Building integrated systems include but are not limited to,
photovoltaic or hot water systems that are contained within roofing materials,
skylights, shading devices and similar architectural components.
FLUSH MOUNTED: A building mounted solar energy system that is mounted to a
finished roof surface where the solar collector, once installed, projects no
further than six inches (6") in height beyond the roof surface.
NON-FLUSH MOUNTED: A building mounted solar energy system that is mounted to a
finished roof surface where the solar collector, once installed, projects more
than six inches (6") in height beyond the roof surface.
PHOTOVOLTAIC CELL: A semiconductor device that converts solar energy directly
into electricity.
SOLAR COLLECTOR: A professionally manufactured device, structure or part of a
device or structure for which the primary purpose is to transform solar radiant
energy into thermal, mechanical, or electrical energy.
SOLAR COLLECTOR SURFACE: Any part of a solar collector that absorbs solar
energy for use in the collector's energy transformation process. Collector
surface does not include frames, supports and mounting hardware.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, BUILDING MOUNTED: A solar energy system that is
professionally mounted on the roof of a principal building or accessory
structure. A building mounted solar energy system includes building integrated,
flush-mounted and non-flush mounted systems.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, GROUND MOUNTED: A free-standing solar energy system that
is placed or mounted to the ground.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, LARGE: A solar energy system that contains multiple solar
collectors and is primarily used to produce energy to be sold commercially.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, SELF-CONTAINED: A professionally manufactured device that
utilizes solar collector(s) to produce small amounts of power that are
generated exclusively for the device. A self-contained solar energy system is
typically located in areas that are not in close proximity to a utility power
source. Examples of these types of self-contained solar energy systems include,
but are not limited to: light poles in parks for security or safety reasons,
pedestrian street crossing signs that alert oncoming traffic of the crossing,
natural resource observation systems (such as tracking flood level depths),
pumps that aerate an isolated pond, and attic fans mounted on a roof that are
used for ventilation purposes.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, SMALL: A professionally manufactured system accessory to
the principal use that utilizes solar collectors to convert solar energy from
the sun into thermal mechanical or electrical energy for storage and use and is
intended to primarily reduce on-site consumption of utility power. Energy
produced in excess of on-site consumption may be sold back to the electric
utility service provider that serves the proposed site for use with the
existing energy grid. For the purposes of this section a solar energy system
includes building mounted and ground mounted solar energy systems. (Ord. 0-18-
17, 11-6-2017; amd. Ord. 0-15-18, 8-6-2018)
4-1-16-3: REFERENCES:
All references to the International Plumbing Code in the ISEP shall be stricken
and replaced with the Illinois Plumbing Code. (Ord. 0-18-17, 11-6-2017; amd.
Ord. 0-15-18, 8-6-2018)
CHAPTER 2
HOUSE NUMBERING
SECTION:
4-2-1: House Numbering Required
4-2-2: Directory
4-2-3: Numbers On Houses, Buildings And Other Structures
4-2-4: Street Designations And Name Changes
4-2-1: HOUSE NUMBERING REQUIRED:
All lots, buildings and structures in the City shall be numbered in accordance
with the following plan:
North and south numbers shall commence at 67th Street which shall be sixty
seven hundred (6700) and increase by one hundred (100) approximately every six
hundred sixty feet (660') moving south.
East and west numbers shall commence at Route 83 which shall be zero (0) and
increase by one hundred (100) approximately every six hundred sixty feet (660')
moving west.
Odd numbers shall be on the east and south sides of the streets; even numbers
shall be on the north and west sides of the streets. (Ord. 0-8-74, 5-20-1974)
4-2-2: DIRECTORY:
The City Clerk shall keep a directory showing the proper street number of every
lot in the City which shall be open to inspection by anyone interested. The
Clerk shall prepare and mail to all residents by July 15, 1974, a notice
advising them of their new house number. (Ord. 0-8-74, 5-20-1974)
4-2-3: NUMBERS ON HOUSES, BUILDINGS AND OTHER STRUCTURES:
It shall be the duty of the owners and occupants of every house, building and
other structure in the City to have displayed by August 1, 1974, figures of
such size and in such place as to be visible from the street, showing the
number of the house, building or structure. (Ord. 0-8-74, 5-20-1974)
4-2-4: STREET DESIGNATIONS AND NAME CHANGES:
The following street names or designations shall be changed as indicated:
Birch Circle to Seminole Drive
Carlisle Court shall be extended from its southernmost boundary on Frontage
Road to its northernmost boundary at its intersection with Kimberly Court in
Carriage Way West Unit No. 4
Charleston Court shall be changed to Kentwood Court in Carriage Way West Unit
No. 4
Country Lane (East Leg) to East Lane
Country Lane (West Leg) to West Lane
Creekside Court shall be changed to Kentwood Court in Brookeridge Creek
Dale Court to Arrow Lane
East Lane to Country Lane
Evergreen Court to Pine Court
Grant Court to Grant Street
Heather Court shall be changed to Kimberly Court from its westernmost boundary,
also being the westernmost boundary of Lot No. 48 in Carriage Way West Unit No.
4 to its easternmost boundary, also being the easternmost boundary of Lot No.
48 in Carriage Way West Unit No. 4
Pine Court to Evergreen Court
Royal Oak Place to Woodland Lane
Royal Oak Place to Woodland Lane (West boundary Lot 65-East)
Saw Mill Creek Drive (from Plainfield Road to its southernmost extremity in
Phase I of the Saw Mill Creek Subdivision) shall be changed to Lakeview Drive
Sawyer Court to Sawyer Road
Sawyer Lane to Chippewa Lane
Sierra Court to Sierra Drive
West Lane to Country Lane
William Drive to Poplar Lane
Woodland to Old Oak Place
68th Place to Chestnut Lane
70th Place to Maple Lane
71st Place to Tamarack Drive
73rd Court to Arbor Court
73rd Court to 73rd Street
73rd Court (Rt. 83 to Clarendon Hills Road) to Elm Street
76th Place (West of Cass) to Sequoia Lane
76th Place (East of Cass) to Walnut Drive
77th Place to Hawthorne Place
77th Place to Laurel Lane
78th Place to Juniper Lane
79th Place to Greenbriar Lane
80th Street to Sleepy Hollow Lane
81st Street to Iroquois Lane
(Ord. 0-8-74, 5-20-1974; amd. Ord. 0-8-74A, 6-3-1974; Ord. 0-08-74-B, 9-3-1974;
Ord. 0-08-74-C, 10-7-1974; Ord. 0-08-74-D, 8-1-1977; Ord. 0-08-74-E, 10-3-1977;
Ord. 0-08-74-F, 11-1-1982)
CHAPTER 3
SIGN CODE
SECTION:
4-3-1: Short Title
4-3-2: Purpose
4-3-3: Scope
4-3-4: Interpretation
4-3-5: Rules Of Construction
4-3-6: Definitions
4-3-7: General Sign Regulations
4-3-8: Exempt Signs
4-3-9: Temporary Signs
4-3-10: Permitted Signs In Zoning District
4-3-11: Nonconforming Signs
4-3-12: Route 83 Corridor Sign Regulations
4-3-13: Prohibited Signs In Route 83 Corridor
4-3-14: Temporary Signs In Route 83 Corridor
4-3-15: General Provisions For Route 83 Corridor
4-3-16: Illumination In Route 83 Corridor
4-3-17: Existing Signs In Route 83 Corridor
4-3-18: Administrative Determinations; Permits, Variances And Appeals
4-3-19: Administrative Bodies; Jurisdiction And Duties
4-3-20: Revocation Of Permit, Violation Of Regulations And Penalties
4-3-21: Liability For Damages
4-3-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter shall hereinafter be known and cited as the SIGN CODE. (Ord. 0-38-
94, 9-6-1994)
4-3-2: PURPOSE:
This sign code is adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, comfort, morals,
convenience and general welfare of the residents of the City.
   (B)   To enhance the physical appearance of the City by preserving the
scenic and natural beauty of the area.
   (C)   To promote the safety and recreational value of public travel.
   (D)   To protect the public investment in streets and highways by reducing
sign or advertising distractions that may increase traffic accidents.
   (E)   To ensure compatibility of signs with surrounding land uses.
   (F)   To enhance the economy of the City by promoting the reasonable,
orderly and effective display of outdoor advertising.
   (G)   To protect the pedestrians and motorists within the City from damage
or injury caused by distractions, obstructions and hazards created by a
proliferation of off-site advertising signs.
   (H)   To prevent the proliferation of off-site advertising signs which
distract from the development of the City in an aesthetically pleasing manner.
   (I)   To preserve the character of the City which is a single- family
residential community by assuring the compatibility of signs with the
surrounding land uses. (Ord. 0-38-94, 9-6-1994)
4-3-3: SCOPE:
From and after the effective date of this sign code, the use of all signs and
portions of signs erected, altered with respect to height and area, added to,
or relocated in the City shall be in conformity with the provisions of this
sign code. (Ord. 0-38-94, 9-6-1994)
4-3-4: INTERPRETATION:
   (A)   In interpretation and application, the provisions of this sign code
shall be held to be an expression of the maximum allowable number and size of
signs which bring about the least potential conflict with surrounding uses and
which promote and improve physical appearance within the City.
   (B)   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this sign code upon
the control of signs are either more restrictive or less restrictive than
comparable conditions imposed by any other provision of this sign code or of
any other law, ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation of any kind, the
regulations which are more restrictive or which impose the higher standards or
requirements shall govern, except in the case of a planned unit development
where said Planned Unit Development ordinance shall govern.
   (C)   The provisions of this sign code shall prevail over any covenant,
easement or other private agreement which purports to limit or authorize the
erection or maintenance of signs in a manner inconsistent with this sign code.
Provided, however, that if the corporate authorities know of the existence of a
private covenant, easement or other agreement which if enforced would cause any
sign to be nonconforming, the corporate authorities shall consider such private
agreement in a determination as to whether a proposed sign for the property
complies with the provisions of this sign code. The provisions of this sign
code shall not, however, prevent any party from attempting to enforce any
covenant, easement or private agreement to which he is a party or beneficiary.
   (D)   When a sign type is not specifically listed in this sign code as a
permitted sign, it shall be assumed that such use is hereby expressly
prohibited. If it is determined by the Plan Commission that said sign is
similar to and not more objectionable than signs listed, such signs may then be
permitted. (Ord. 0-38-94, 9-6-1994; amd. Ord. O-01-25, 1-20-2025)
4-3-5: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
The language set forth in the text of this sign code shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules of construction:
   (A)   Words used in the present tense shall include the past and future
tenses and words used in the singular shall include plural.
   (B)   The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary.
   (C)   The word "may" is permissive.
   (D)   All measured distances or standards shall be to the nearest whole
integer. If a fraction is one-half (1/2) or less, the next whole integer below
shall be taken.
   (E)   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter. (Ord. 0-38-94,
9-6-1994)
4-3-6: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms, wherever they occur in this sign code shall be
construed as herein defined:
ABANDONED/OBSOLETE SIGN: A sign which no longer identifies or advertises a bona
fide person, business, lessee, owner, product, activity, place, idea,
institution or service, and/or for which no legal owner can be found.
AWNING: Any structure made of cloth, metal or other material attached to a
building when the same is so erected as to permit it being raised or retracted
to a position against the building when not in use. When an awning contains,
embodies or displays any verbiage, trademark, logo or similar representation,
it shall be considered a "wall sign" under the provisions of this sign code.
BILLBOARD: A sign structure advertising an establishment, business,
organization, event, person, place, merchandise, service, or entertainment
which is not sold, produced, manufactured or furnished at the property on which
said sign is located, e.g., "off-premises sign" or "outdoor advertising sign".
See definition of Sign, Advertising.
BUILDING FRONTAGE: The linear length of the outside building wall facing the
public right of way or the linear length of the outside building wall facing a
parking area which serves as the primary access for the subject use.
BUILDING WALL: The wall area in one plane or elevation of a building.
CANOPY: A structure other than an awning, made of cloth, metal or other
materials with frame attached to a building, and carried by a frame supported
by the ground or sidewalk. When a canopy contains, embodies or displays any
verbiage, trademark, logo, or similar representation, it shall be considered a
"wall sign" under the provisions of this sign code.
CONSTRUCTION SIGN: A temporary sign identifying an architect, contractor,
subcontractor and/or material supplier participating in construction on the
property on which the sign is located and the general nature of the proposed
use on the property.
COPY: The wording on a sign surface in either permanent or removable letter
form.
CORNER LOT: A lot situated at the junction of and abutting on two (2) or more
intersecting street rights of way.
DIRECTOR: The Director of Building and Zoning of the City of Darien.
FRONTAGE: All property fronting on one side of the street between the two (2)
nearest intersecting streets, as measured along the line of the street, or if
the street is dead ended, then all of the property abutting on one side of the
street between an intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
GRADE: The average elevation or level of the ground within an area that is six
feet (6') of the point, or points, at which the sign or support structure meets
the ground.
HIGHWAY ADVERTISING CONTROL ACT OF 1971: An act relating to the control of
signs on lands adjacent to the Federal Aid Primary System and the National
System of Interstate and Defense Highways in Illinois, as amended.
INTERSECTION: An intersection of two (2) or more streets.
LOT: A parcel or tract of land indicated as such on a plat recorded in the
Office of the DuPage County Recorder.
MAINTENANCE: For the purposes of this sign code, the cleaning, painting,
repair, or replacement of defective parts of a sign in a manner that does not
alter the basic copy, design or structure of the sign.
NAMEPLATE: A nonilluminated, single-faced sign, not more than two (2) square
feet in size, identifying only the name and/or address and occupation of the
occupant, or the name of the premises, and is mounted to the principal building
or mailbox.
OCCUPANT: Any person who owns, rents, or leases and occupies a portion of a
building or a premises for a given use.
OWNER: Any person, group of persons, partnership, corporation or other legal
entity holding legal or other equitable title to real estate located within the
City of Darien, including, but not limited to, contract purchasers and all of
the beneficial owners under a land trust. For the purposes of this sign code,
the owner of the property on which a sign is located is presumed to be the
owner of the sign unless facts to the contrary are officially recorded or
otherwise brought to the attention of the Building Department Director, e.g., a
sign leased from a sign company.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
PREMISES: The area occupied by a business or other enterprise. When more than
one business occupies a single building on the ground floor, each business area
shall be considered a separate premises. Businesses or other enterprises which
occupy other floors shall be considered separate premises. When the context
requires, the term "premises" can also mean the lot upon which a sign is
located or applied for.
PROJECTING SIGN: A sign supported by a building or other structure which
projects over any street, sidewalk, alley, or public way or easement; or which
projects more than twelve inches (12") from the face of any building, structure
or supporting wall.
ROOF SIGN: A sign, constructed and supported in whole or in part upon or over
the roof of a building or structure. A sign which is attached to a mansard roof
and protrudes wholly or partially above the roofline of the building or
structure to which the mansard roof is attached shall be considered a roof
sign.
ROOFLINE: The top edge of a roof or building parapet, whichever is higher,
excluding any cupolas, pylons, chimneys or minor projections.
SHOPPING CENTER: A group of commercial establishments under single, joint or
separate ownership with common off-street parking areas.
SIGN: A name, identification, description, display or illustration which is
affixed to or painted or represented directly or indirectly upon a building,
pole or other outdoor surface or piece of land including pennants, which
directs attention to an object, product, place, activity, person, institution,
organization, or business. The definition shall not include any display or
official court or public office notices nor shall it include a flag, emblem or
insignia of a nation, political unit, school or religious group. A sign shall
not include a sign located completely within an enclosed building unless the
context shall be exposed to view from a street.
SIGN, ADVERTISING: Any advertising device, billboard, poster, notice, or
display which directs attention to an object, product, place, activity, person,
institution, organization or business that is not located on the property where
the sign is located or is intended to attract attention including any structure
and all lighting or other attachments used in connection therewith, but not
including a temporary sign or a sign advertising the activity being conducted
upon the property upon which it is located.
SIGN AREA: Unless otherwise specified, the area of the smallest triangle,
rectangle or circle which can wholly enclose the surface area of the sign face.
In the event of an "individual letter sign" where the letters or insignia vary
significantly in size, the sign area may be computed using not more than two
(2) triangles, rectangles, or circles per word or insignia.
SIGN, BUSINESS: A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service, activity, idea, slogan or entertainment conducted, sold, offered or
available upon the premises where such sign is located or to which the sign is
affixed.
SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY: A sign on which message copy can be changed through the
use of attachable letters and numerals which are changed manually or
automatically on a lampbank or through mechanical means, e.g., "electrical" or
"electronic time and temperature units" and/or "message centers".
SIGN, DIRECTIONAL: An on-premises sign designed and erected solely for the
purpose of traffic or pedestrian direction and contains no advertising copy.
SIGN, DIRECTORY: A sign listing the names and locations of various activities
conducted within a building or group of buildings.
SIGN, FLASHING: Any directly or indirectly illuminated sign which exhibits
changing natural or artificial light or color effects by any means whatsoever.
Time and temperature signs are excluded from the category of flashing signs.
SIGN, FREESTANDING: A sign which is ground mounted or supported by one or more
columns, uprights, or braces in or upon the ground, not attached to or forming
part of a building.
SIGN, GARAGE SALE: A freestanding sign announcing a garage sale. Said signs
shall not be attached to any utility pole or structure, to any traffic-control
sign, nor located within the public road right of way.
SIGN, GROUND (MONUMENT): A freestanding sign where the size of the sign support
components are not less than seventy five percent (75%) of the total width of
the sign, with no more than three feet (3') of clear space between the bottom
of the face of the sign and the grade beneath the sign face.
SIGN HEIGHT: The vertical distance of a sign measured from the grade to the top
of the sign.
SIGN, IDENTIFICATION: A wall sign used to display and identify the name of the
individual, business, profession, organization, or institution occupying the
premises upon which such sign is located.
SIGN, ILLUMINATED: Any sign which has characters, letters, figures, design or
outline illuminated by internal or external electric lights or luminous tubes,
or which gives the appearance of illumination, as a part of the sign proper.
SIGN, INDIVIDUAL LETTER: A wall sign made of self-contained letters that are
affixed to the face of a building which does not project above the top of the
parapet wall, does not project above any portion of the roofline, and which
does not project above or below a marquee.
SIGN, NONCONFORMING: Any sign legally existing or under construction on the
effective date of this sign code and which does not conform with the provisions
of this sign code.
SIGN, PERMANENT: Any sign which is not a temporary sign.
SIGN, POLE: Any business sign having a support structure with a size less than
twenty five percent (25%) of the total width of the sign with more than ten
feet (10') of clear space between the bottom of the face of the sign and the
grade beneath the sign.
SIGN, POLITICAL: Signs or posters announcing candidates seeking political
office and/or political issues, and data pertinent thereto.
SIGN, PORTABLE: A sign not permanently attached to the ground, building, or to
any other structure; a sign designed to be moved from place to place.
SIGN, PUBLIC SERVICE: A sign posted on public or quasi-public property, the
function of which is to promote items of general interest to the community.
SIGN, REAL ESTATE: A temporary business sign placed upon a property advertising
that particular property for sale, rent or lease.
SIGN, RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT: A sign placed at the major entrances to a
subdivision or a planned unit development identifying that subdivision or
planned unit development.
SIGN STRUCTURE: A structure which supports, has supported, or is capable of
supporting a sign, including decorative cover. Any angle iron or main support
is to be enclosed in a wood, plastic, or metal form such that the angle iron is
not visible.
SIGN, TEMPORARY: A sign intended to be displayed for thirty (30) days or less.
SIGN, UNLAWFUL: A sign which contravenes this sign code or which the director
may declare as unlawful if it becomes dangerous to public safety by reason of
dilapidation or disrepair or a nonconforming sign for which a permit required
under this sign code has not been obtained.
SIGN, VEHICLE: Any sign painted on, attached to, or mounted upon any operable
vehicle.
SIGN, WALL: A business sign attached directly to a building wall which does not
extend more than twelve inches (12") therefrom, nor extend above the roofline
or top of building edge. Such sign shall not be posted, painted or plastered
directly on the surface of the walls or roof of a building.
SIGN, WINDOW: Any sign, picture, symbol, or combination thereof, designed to
communicate information about an activity, business, commodity, event, sale, or
service that is placed inside a window or upon the windowpanes or glass and is
visible from the exterior of the window. (Ord. 0-38-94, 9-6-1994; amd. Ord. 0-
18-98, 9-21-1998; Ord. 0-29-08, 7-7-2008)
4-3-7: GENERAL SIGN REGULATIONS:
   (A)   General Provisions: The following provisions shall apply in all zoning
districts.
      1.   The requirements of this sign code shall govern and control the
erection, enlargement, expansion, alteration, operation, maintenance, removal
and relocation of all signs within zoning districts in the city. Any sign not
expressly permitted by these regulations shall be prohibited. The regulations
of this sign code relate to the location of signs, by function and type. Every
sign, and all parts thereof, including framework, supports, background, anchors
and wiring systems shall be constructed and maintained in compliance with this
sign code and the building, electrical and fire protection codes 1  of the
city.
      2.   All signs permitted under the highway advertising control act of
1971, as amended, shall be permitted as provided therein; however, such signs
shall conform to the provisions of this sign code.
      3.   No sign shall be painted, postered or plastered directly on the
surfaces of the exterior walls or roof of any building. No sign or sign
structure shall be attached to a tree, fence, telephone pole or other utility
pole or structure.
      4.   All signs, and all parts thereof, regardless of whether or not a
permit is required, shall be maintained in a safe presentable and good
structural condition at all times, including the replacement of nonfunctioning,
broken or defective parts, painting, repainting, cleaning and any other acts
required for the maintenance of the sign. All signs and sign supports shall be
kept painted, or otherwise treated to prevent rust, rot or deterioration.
      5.   No sign shall be erected or located in a public right of way except
as established by the authorized public entity responsible for the right of
way.
      6.   No sign, or portion thereof, shall rotate, flash, flutter, or appear
to move except as otherwise specifically permitted herein.
      7.   No sign shall be constructed or maintained on any portion of a roof,
nor shall any such sign attached to an improvement project be placed above any
portion of the roof or parapet wall.
      8.   Permanent window signs shall conform to the requirements for wall
signs under the provisions of the zoning district in which they are located.
      9.   In all zoning districts, the property owner shall be permitted to
construct and maintain not more than three (3) flagpoles which shall be located
within the buildable area of the property. In all cases, flagpoles shall be
utilized to display the American flag, state and county flags or other
corporate, national or organizational flags. Such flagpoles shall be used
exclusively as flagpoles and shall not serve as light poles. Each flagpole may
have a light fixture so that the flag may be illuminated during nighttime
hours.
      10.   Except as herein provided, all signs shall require sign permits
which shall be issued by the city building department.
      11.   Except as herein provided, when a sign is not specifically listed
as permitted in any specific zoning district, such sign shall be expressly
prohibited.
      12.   In all business districts, temporary window signs located inside of
show windows shall occupy not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the
surface area of such windows. (Ord. 0-38-94, 9-6-1994)
   (B)   Signs Specifically Prohibited: All signs not expressly permitted under
this sign code are prohibited within the city. The following signs are
specifically prohibited in all districts:
      1.   Projecting and pole signs.
      2.   Pennants, streamers, portable signs, festoon lights or any other
attention getting devices not specifically authorized by the temporary sign
regulations as set forth in section
4-3-9 of this chapter.
      3.   Commercial signs not advertising a business conducted or a product
sold on the same property as the sign is located except as permitted in this
sign code.
      4.   Signs which contain statements, words, pictures or other depictions
of an obscene, indecent or immoral character and which offend public morals or
decency.
      5.   Miscellaneous advertising devices, other than the signs which
conform to the provisions of this sign code, or any other provisions of the
city code, shall not be allowed.
      6.   Signs in conflict with traffic signals, vehicular or pedestrian
travel, access to fire hydrants and fire lanes and exits, and other signs which
reasonably impede or impair public health, safety and welfare.
      7.   Signs painted on the walls or windows of any building.
      8.   Signs on vehicles, boats, or trailers in place, other than one sign
not larger than two feet by two feet (2' x 2') advertising said vehicle, boat
and/or trailer for sale or rent.
      9.   Signs hung across any street or alley.
      10.   Obsolete signs.
      11.   Unlawful signs. (Ord. 0-29-08, 7-7-2008)
   (C)   Illumination Of Signs: In addition to all other applicable
requirements set forth in this sign code, all illuminated signs shall comply
with the following provisions:
      1.   All illuminated signs within one hundred feet (100') of any
residential zoning district shall be turned off between the hours of eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. unless the business is
engaged in the operation of business during such hours, in which case the sign
may be lit during the hours of operation only.
      2.   Signs in the direct line of vision of motorists approaching any
traffic signal shall not have red, green or amber illumination.
      3.   Neither the direct nor reflected light from primary light sources
shall create a traffic hazard for or confuse operators of motor vehicles on
public thoroughfares.
      4.   No sign shall have blinking, flashing or fluttering lights or other
illuminating device which has a changing light intensity, brightness or color.
Beacon lights are prohibited.
      5.   No exposed reflective type bulb or incandescent lamp which exceeds
fifteen (15) watts shall be used on the exterior surface of any sign so as to
expose the face of the bulb, light or lamp to any public street or adjacent
property.
      6.   All sources of light, whether by direct exposure, surface reflection
or transmission having an intrinsic brightness greater than thirty (30) foot-
lamberts shall be shielded so that the source of the light cannot be seen at
any point within a residential zoning district.
      7.   No luminous source of light, whether direct exposure, surface
reflection or transmission shall have a light intensity exceeding the
brightness value of one hundred fifty (150) foot-lamberts.
      8.   No source of light shall be permitted to cause illumination in
excess of one-half (1/2) foot-candle in a residential zoning district.
      9.   The light from any illuminated sign shall be so shielded, shaded or
directed so that the light intensity or brightness shall not be objectionable
to surrounding properties.
   (D)   Number Of Signs On Premises: No more than one pole or ground mounted
sign is permitted on a property. Premises having building frontage on more than
one dedicated street shall be permitted signage for each street frontage as
provided by this sign code.
   (E)   Placement Of Signs On Lots: Signs shall be placed no closer than four
feet (4') to any lot line or street right of way except as provided in
subsection (F) of this section and except that the signs shall be placed no
closer than thirty feet (30') from any interior side lot line. No ground sign
shall be placed closer than twenty feet (20') from any driveway. However, for
every one foot (1') greater than four feet (4') that the sign is from the front
lot line or street right of way, the distance from the driveway may be reduced
by one foot (1'). No wall sign on a building wall shall face an area zoned
residential. No more than one point of sale gasoline sign per street frontage
shall be permitted.
   (F)   Placement Of Signs On Corner Lots: No sign of a height greater than
thirty six inches (36") above the adjoining street grade shall be permitted
within the triangular area formed; one at the intersection of any two (2)
street rights of way lines and/or the intersection of any street right of way
line and any service entrance drive, by a line drawn between such rights of way
lines and/or such right of way line and service drive line, at a distance along
such lines of twenty five feet (25') from the point of intersection thereof. If
a permanent building exists within the triangle thus formed, the lengths of the
legs shall be reduced to the extent of a forty five degree (45°) line across
the outer building corner. (Ord. 0-38-94, 9-6-1994)
   (G)   Landscaping Requirements: All new ground signs shall be surrounded by
a landscaped area. A landscape plan shall be submitted along with the permit
application for such signs. The landscape plan shall comply with the following
requirements:
      1.   The landscaped area shall be located at the base of the ground sign,
consisting of a square, rectangle, oval or circular area, the area of which
shall be a minimum of four feet (4') in width on all sides of the sign base.
      2.   The landscape area shall consist of a variety of plant types and
species such as ground covers, perennials and low growing shrubs. Sodded or
seeded areas shall not be construed as to meet this requirement. The
landscaping shall be maintained at all times.
      3.   If the area available on the subject property for the required
landscaping is insufficient, the director may permit the installation of a
portion of the required landscaping at an alternate location on the property.
(Ord. 0-29-08, 7-7-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 1 of this title.
4-3-8: EXEMPT SIGNS:
Unless otherwise provided, the signs set forth in this section are permitted in
all zoning districts, shall not require a sign permit, and shall not be counted
when calculating the number of signs with square footage on a premises.
However, such signs shall conform with other general regulations for signs
enumerated in the remainder of this sign code. Signs exceeding the provisions
of this section shall be required to obtain permits and shall conform to all of
the requirements for permanent signs in the districts in which they are
located.
   (A)   Name and address plates which give only the name and address of the
resident of the building and each of which is not more than one square foot in
sign area.
   (B)   No trespassing signs or other such signs regulating the use of a
property, with no more than two (2) square feet in total sign area in the
residential zones and six (6) square feet of total sign area in all business,
office, and industrial zones.
   (C)   Real estate signs, not exceeding four (4) square feet in sign area in
the residential zones and thirty two (32) square feet in all business, office
and industrial zones. No such sign shall exceed six feet (6') in height above
grade. On corner lots, one additional sign of the same size shall be permitted
for the second street. Such real estate signs shall be removed within ten (10)
days after the premises or lot advertised has been sold, rented, or leased or
otherwise not available to the general public. Real estate signs shall be
prohibited in the public right of way.
   (D)   Bulletin boards for public, charitable or religious institutions, when
it has a sign area of no more than thirty two (32) square feet, and bears no
commercial advertising.
   (E)   General information signs such as signs regulating on premises traffic
and parking, and signs denoting sections of a building such as lavatory
facilities and public telephone areas, when each sign is less than four (4)
square feet in area and bears no commercial advertising.
   (F)   Signs erected by a governmental body, or under the direction of such
body, railroad crossing signs, safety signs and signs identifying public and
private schools and public playgrounds.
   (G)   Memorial signs or tablets and signs denoting the date of erection of
buildings no larger than five (5) square feet.
   (H)   No more than three (3) flags, pennants or insignia of any government,
or of any religious, charitable or fraternal organization.
   (I)   One logo flag of a company shall be allowed in business and industrial
zones provided that it is no larger than three feet by five feet (3' x 5') in
size, and, if flown with the American flag, then no larger than that flag.
   (J)   Temporary signs no larger than four (4) square feet in area
advertising the sale of edible farm products produced on the premises,
advertising auctions, or special events of charitable or public service groups.
Such signs may remain for thirty (30) days and must be removed upon close of
the event and be down not less than thirty (30) days prior to it being
reerected again on the same premises.
   (K)   Signs identifying places of worship when located on the premises
thereof, and shall be a maximum of thirty two (32) square feet per side.
   (L)   Window signs of paper or other similar material, placed on the inside
of the window of the premises shall be permitted in business zones, provided
that such signs are to be used to notify the public of special sales or current
prices, and cover no more than fifty percent (50%) of the window area.
   (M)   Signs not visible beyond the boundaries of the lot or parcel upon
which they are situated or from any public thoroughfare or right of way.
   (N)   Official signs of any public or governmental agency.
   (O)   Any sign of an official court or public office, any notices thereof,
and any flag, emblem or insignia of a governmental entity not used for
commercial advertising.
   (P)   Any sign which is located completely within an enclosed building, and
which sign is not visible from the outside of the building.
   (Q)   Tablets, grave markers, headstones, statuary/memorial plaques or
remembrances of persons or events that are noncommercial in nature.
   (R)   Private traffic direction signs directing traffic movement onto a
premises or within a premises, not exceeding four (4) square feet in area and
four feet (4') in height.
   (S)   Political campaign signs, announcing the candidates seeking public
political office and other data pertinent thereto, not exceeding sixteen (16)
square feet in total area for each lot. These signs shall be confined within
private property, be erected not more than sixty (60) days prior to the date of
the election, and be removed within twenty four (24) hours after the date of
the election. (Ord. 0-38-94, 9-6-1994)
   (T)   Garage sale signs shall be regulated in accordance with title 3,
chapter 6 of this code. (Ord. 0-30-97, 8-4-1997)
   (U)   Residential window or yard sign no larger than four (4) square feet in
area shall be permitted as follows:
      1.   No more than one window and/or yard sign shall be permitted.
      2.   No such sign shall be placed or otherwise erected for more than
thirty (30) days within any calendar year.
      3.   No yard sign shall be posted or displayed on street poles, utility
poles, street signs, traffic sign poles, or otherwise erected upon the public
right of way. No yard sign shall be displayed in such a location as to cause
obstruction to the clear view of traffic. (Ord. 0-38-94, 9-6-1994)
4-3-9: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
The following signs shall be permitted anywhere on private property in the city
subject to a sign permit and a permit fee as otherwise set forth in this code.
Said signs shall in all respects comply with the applicable regulations
contained in this sign code. Such signs shall not be mounted at a height which
causes the top of the sign to exceed eight feet (8') above the average
surrounding grade. The application for a temporary sign permit shall include a
diagram depicting the number, location, size and such other information as
requested by the director identifying any proposed signage. No more than one
portable sign may be included as part of temporary promotional signage.
Portable signs may not exceed four feet by eight feet (4' x 8') in size and
shall not employ flashing lights. Such signs may be internally illuminated.
Temporary signs are prohibited in the public right of way.
   (A)   Not more than two (2) construction signs, or signs announcing future
construction, with a combined sign surface area not to exceed thirty two (32)
square feet, identifying the architects, engineers, contractors and other
individuals or firms involved with the construction and announcing the
character of the building enterprise or the purpose for which the building is
intended. The signs shall be confined to the site of the construction or
development and shall be removed within fourteen (14) days after the issuance
of the final occupancy permit for the construction or development.
   (B)   Portable signs, banners, streamers, balloons, or other promotional
materials or events, specifically approved by the director, and then only for
the location(s) designated by the director. Each freestanding business or
shopping center is permitted two (2) promotions per calendar year for a period
not to exceed thirty (30) days for each promotion. (Ord. 0-38-94, 9-6-1994)
4-3-10: PERMITTED SIGNS IN ZONING DISTRICT:
   (A)   Signs In The Residential Districts:
      1.   All signs, flags and pennants are prohibited in residential
districts except for those enumerated in sections
4-3-8 and 4-3-9 of this chapter.
      2.   Within residential planned unit developments for which the approved
site plan allows nonresidential land uses, the signs allowed within such
nonresidential uses shall comply with other provisions of this sign code
relating to the type of use allowed (e.g., business zone, office zone,
industrial zone).
      3.   Permanent residential development signs at major entrances designed
to identify a residential subdivision or planned unit development and
containing no commercial advertising, constructed of material which is the same
or of a more permanent nature than the material used in the development with a
maximum of thirty two (32) square feet per side.
      4.   Exempt signs.
      5.   Temporary signs.
   (B)   Signs In The Business Districts:
      1.   All signs permitted in residential districts.
      2.   Wall signs not to exceed two (2) square feet of wall signage for
each linear foot of business building frontage, up to a maximum of five hundred
(500) square feet. The wall signs shall be placed upon the same side of the
building that is considered the business building frontage. A commercial
building with frontage on two (2) or more streets shall be permitted an
additional one square foot of wall signage for the side of the business
building facing the second street for each linear foot of building facing the
second street. (Ord. 0-38-94, 9-6-1994)
      3.   Not more than one ground sign per street frontage is permitted.
Manual changeable copy signs not exceeding forty percent (40%) of the sign area
may be included on a ground sign, provided that all individual letters shall be
uniform in height, style, and color, and provided the message is enclosed in a
locking case. The area of a permitted ground sign shall be limited to sixty
(60) square feet per side. The highest point on such ground sign shall not
exceed twelve feet (12') above grade. (Ord. 0-29-08, 7-7-2008)
      4.   Not more than one gasoline point of sale price sign per street
abutting a gasoline filling station, with a maximum sign size of no more than
four feet (4') in any direction. No gasoline price sign shall be closer than
four feet (4') from the front or corner side property line and shall be no
closer than thirty feet (30') from any interior or rear property line.
   (C)   Signs In The Office And The Office, Research And Industrial Districts
(O And OR&I):
      1.   Identification signs, provided that such signs are not larger than
sixteen (16) square feet in size.
      2.   Wall signs not to exceed one square foot of wall signage for each
linear foot of building front or space unit frontage. (Ord. 0-38-94, 9-6-1994)
      3.   Not more than one ground sign per street frontage is permitted. The
area of a ground sign shall be limited to sixty (60) square feet per side. The
highest point on such ground signs shall not exceed six feet (6') above grade.
(Ord. 0-29-08, 7-7-2008)
      4.   Exempt signs.
      5.   Temporary signs.
   (D)   Signs In The Industrial District (I-1):
      1.   All signs permitted in the office and office, research and
industrial district.
      2.   Advertising signs provided that the size of the sign does not exceed
two hundred (200) square feet in size. (Ord. 0-38-94, 9-6-1994)
4-3-11: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
All signs presently erected and maintained in the city as of the effective date
of this sign code, or which shall come to be located within the corporate
limits of the city by virtue of any annexation after the effective date, shall
be subject to the following regulations:
   (A)   Legal Signs: All signs existing within the corporate limits of the
city as of the effective date of this sign code or which shall become subject
to the terms of this sign code by reason of annexation and which shall be in
compliance with the regulations set forth herein, shall be considered to be
legal signs and shall hereafter be owned, operated and maintained in
conformance with the regulations contained herein.
   (B)   Legal Nonconforming Signs: Any sign which existed lawfully on the
effective date of this sign code and which remains or becomes nonconforming by
reason of adoption of this sign code or because of subsequent amendments
thereto, or which shall become nonconforming by reason of the annexation to the
city of the lot or parcel on which said sign is located, shall be considered a
legal nonconforming sign and the continuance of such use shall be only as
hereinafter permitted:
      1.   A legal nonconforming sign is subject to the following restrictions:
         (a)   Ordinary repairs and maintenance, including the removing and
replacing of the outer panels shall be permitted, provided:
            (1)   The business name and/or sign copy are not changed, and
            (2)   No structural alterations or other work shall appreciably
extend the normal life of the legal nonconforming sign.
         (b)   Legal nonconforming signs shall be removed and eliminated when
the square footage of the principal structure located on the same property is
enlarged or if the exterior facade of said principal structure is altered or
renovated.
         (c)   No repair or alteration which increases the size of the legal
nonconforming sign shall be permitted. No substitution, through repair or
alteration, of any elements of the sign, which causes such sign to be
classified as nonconforming, for another such element, shall be permitted.
         (d)   No legal nonconforming sign shall be moved in whole or in part
to any other location on the same or any other premises unless every portion of
such sign is made to conform to all of the regulations of this sign code.
         (e)   A legal nonconforming sign which is destroyed or damaged by fire
or other casualty or act of God to the extent that the cost of restoration to
the condition in which it was before the occurrence shall exceed fifty percent
(50%) of the cost of the replacement of the entire sign shall not be restored
unless said sign shall conform to all of the regulations of this sign code. In
the event that such damage or destruction is less than fifty percent (50%) of
the cost of restoration of the sign to the condition in which it was before the
occurrence of damage or destruction, no repairs or reconstruction shall be made
unless such restoration is started within thirty (30) days from the date of
such damage or destruction, and, provided further, that completion is
accomplished within three (3) months from the date of such damage or
destruction.
         (f)   If the restoration is not started within thirty (30) days from
the date of such damage or destruction, and diligently prosecuted to
completion, the sign shall be removed.
         (g)   If a legal nonconforming sign is located on property which is
sold, and when the full ownership is transferred by deed, the legal
nonconforming sign shall be discontinued at the time of the deed transfer. If
ownership of a business changes, which does not affect the ownership of the
property in which the business is located, the legal nonconforming sign shall
be discontinued.
         (h)   If a legal nonconforming sign is abandoned or discontinued for a
continuous period of ninety (90) days, it shall not be renewed, and any
subsequent sign shall conform to all of the requirements of this sign code.
(Ord. 0-29-08, 7-7-2008)
4-3-12: ROUTE 83 CORRIDOR SIGN REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Every business as defined herein shall be permitted to erect one sign
indicating only the business name and address, the major enterprise or the
principal product offered for sale on the premises or a combination of these.
The total sign surface area allowed in these districts shall be based on the
following schedule:
   One square foot of sign surface area for each one foot (1') of business site
frontage up to a maximum of one hundred twenty (120) square feet of sign
surface area. For the purposes of this section, "sign surface area" shall be
defined as the total exposed surface devoted to the sign's message, including
all framing, bordering, backboards, backdrops, ornamentations, embellishment,
letters, symbols, logos, and all other such elements of a sign, but excluding,
in the case of a freestanding or ground sign, the supporting structure. In the
case of a ground sign designed with more than one exterior surface, the sign
surface area shall be computed as including the sum of the area surface.
   (B)   Such signs as permitted in the above business districts shall be
"building signs" as defined herein. Such building signs shall be no higher than
the height of the building or twenty feet (20'), whichever is lower and no
lower than five feet (5') above average surrounding grade. Any sign which
projects from the face of the wall shall be at least seven feet six inches
(7'6") above average surrounding grade.
   (C)   If such business is a business not located within a "shopping center"
as defined herein, and is located upon a lot or parcel having a lot width of
not less than one hundred feet (100'), such business shall be permitted to
construct one freestanding or ground sign. Such freestanding or ground sign
shall not be constructed or erected so that any part thereof is located closer
than twenty feet (20') from the nearest existing freestanding or ground sign.
The sign surface area of any such freestanding or ground sign shall be counted
against the total sign surface area for all signs as regulated in subsection
(A) of this Section.
   In addition, the freestanding or ground sign permitted herein shall be
further subject to the following sign surface area and height limitations:
      1.   No freestanding or ground sign shall be constructed or erected to a
height greater than twelve feet (12') above the average surrounding grade.
      2.   The maximum sign surface area permitted in subsection (A) of this
Section shall be reduced by seven and one-half (71/2) square feet per each foot
of sign height that any freestanding or ground sign is constructed in excess of
eight feet (8') above average surrounding grade.
   (D)   A shopping center located upon a lot or parcel having not less than
two (2) acres in area may elect to construct or erect one freestanding or
ground shopping center identification sign subject to the following criteria:
      1.   No other freestanding or ground sign shall be constructed or erected
within the area comprising the shopping center.
      2.   The freestanding or ground shopping center identification sign shall
not contain any advertisement other than the identity of the shopping center
and the business located therein.
      3.   The total sign surface area of the shopping center identification
sign shall not exceed ninety (90) square feet in area and shall be the sign
surface area permitted in addition to that permitted in subsection (A) of this
Section.
      4.   The shopping center identification sign shall not be constructed or
erected to a height greater than twelve feet (12') above average surrounding
grades.
   (E)   The total permissible sign surface area for uses located upon lots or
parcels located within the B-1, B-2, B-3, and B-4 Business Districts shall be
subject to the following additional area restrictions:
      1.   Uses located upon interior lots or parcels may construct or erect
one freestanding or ground sign and one additional sign having a combined sign
surface area not in excess of that permitted in subsection (A) of this Section.
      2.   Uses located upon corner lots or parcels may construct or erect one
freestanding or ground sign and two (2) additional signs having a combined sign
surface area not in excess of that permitted in subsection (A) of this Section.
      3.   For each sign constructed or erected in excess of the two (2) signs
permitted for interior lots or parcels in subsection (E)1 of this Section, or
in excess of the three (3) signs permitted for corner lots or parcels in
subsection (E)2 of this Section, the total permissible sign surface area
permitted by subsection (A) of this Section shall be reduced by twenty five
percent (25%).
      4.   The construction or erection of a shopping center identification
sign as permitted under subsection (D) of this Section shall not be considered
in applying the requirements of this subsection. (Ord. 0-38-94, 9-6-1994)
4-3-13: PROHIBITED SIGNS IN ROUTE 83 CORRIDOR:
The following signs are specifically prohibited:
   (A)   Commercial billboards and posterboards, when located upon vacant
parcels or when displaying information not related to the conduct of a business
or other enterprise located on the same premises as said billboard or
posterboard.
   (B)   Flashing signs.
   (C)   Roof signs.
   (D)   Projecting signs.
   (E)   Pennants, streamers, portable signs, and festoon lights not
specifically authorized by the City Council.
   (F)   Commercial lights not indicating bona fide business conducted or a
product sold on the property.
   (G)   Signs which move or have moving parts, which movement is caused either
by the wind or mechanically.
   (H)   Signs painted on the walls or windows of any building, except as
hereinafter permitted.
   (I)   Signs on vehicles, boats, or trailers in place other than one sign not
larger than two feet by two feet (2' x 2') advertising said vehicle, boat and/
or trailer for sale or rent.
   (J)   Neon signs; that is, signs employing exposed neon lights not
completely covered by other acceptable signage materials.
   (K)   Signs painted on or otherwise affixed to fences. (Ord. 0-38-94, 9-6-
1994)
4-3-14: TEMPORARY SIGNS IN ROUTE 83 CORRIDOR:
For the purposes of this chapter, "temporary signs" shall be defined as below
and shall require a permit from the Department of Building and Zoning.
   (A)   Portable signs, pennants, streamers, or other promotional signs
specifically approved by the Director of Building and Zoning after showing that
the portable signs, pennants, streamers, or other promotional signs are an
integral part of the campaign or program for the promotion of a specific
product or event, and then only for the location(s) designated by the Director
during the fourteen (14) days before and the three (3) days after the event. No
more than one portable sign may be included within the temporary promotional
signs provided for herein. Said portable sign may not exceed four feet by eight
feet (4' x 8') in size, must not employ flashing lights and must be internally
illuminated. The Director may, in his discretion, require any application for a
temporary sign permit to provide a diagram depicting the number, location,
size, and other information identifying any proposed promotional signage. The
temporary sign permit provided for by this section may not be granted with
respect to any specific lot or parcel more than three (3) times during any
twelve (12) consecutive months.
   (B)   Window signs shall be permitted in Commercial Districts subject to the
following:
      1.   Area: The sum total of all window identification and window
promotional signs shall not exceed forty percent (40%) of the total area of the
windows in which they are located. A series of windows which are separated by
frames and supporting material of less than six inches (6") in width shall be
considered as a single window for the purposes of computation.
      2.   Other: No mechanical or illuminated sign shall be allowed. (Ord. 0-
38-94, 9-6-1994)
4-3-15: GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR ROUTE 83 CORRIDOR:
For the purposes of this chapter:
   (A)   No sign shall be located so as to project above the top edge of the
roof or the top of the parapet, whichever forms the top line of the building
silhouette and in no case exceed a height of twenty feet (20').
   (B)   No sign shall be attached to a utility pole, a tree, a standpipe,
gutter, drain or fire escape, nor shall any sign be erected so as to impair
access to a roof.
   (C)   No sign shall be located, erected, or maintained upon, over or project
into any public right-of-way, or easement for any purpose. (Ord. 0-38-94, 9-6-
1994)
4-3-16: ILLUMINATION IN ROUTE 83 CORRIDOR:
For the purposes of this chapter no sign shall have blinking, flashing, or
fluttering lights or other illuminating device which has a changing light
intensity, brightness, or color. Beacon lights are not permitted. (Ord. 0-38-
94, 9-6-1994)
4-3-17: EXISTING SIGNS IN ROUTE 83 CORRIDOR:
For the purposes of this chapter, all signs that are presently existing in the
Route 83 Corridor or that have been previously approved for construction prior
to the passage of this chapter shall not be affected by the amendments
contained herein and shall be considered legal signs.
   (A)   Legal Nonconforming Signs: Any sign which existed lawfully on the date
of the passage of this chapter and which remains or becomes nonconforming by
the passage of this chapter or which shall become nonconforming due to
annexation to the City, shall be continued only in accordance with the
following provisions: (Ord. 0-38-94, 9-6-1994; amd. Ord. 0-04-00, 4-3-2000)
      1.   Modification: Any legal nonconforming sign may be changed or
modified as follows: (Ord. 0-16-19, 5-6-2019)
         (a)   Said legal nonconforming sign may be altered to reflect a change
in ownership in the business being advertised and/or change in the nature of
the business or use of the premises located upon the lot or parcel improved
with said legal nonconforming sign.
         (b)   Said legal nonconforming signs may be relocated upon the lot or
parcel whereon said sign was located, provided that the new location of said
legal nonconforming sign shall in all respects conform with the requirements of
this chapter as said requirements relate to the location of such signs.
         (c)   Said legal nonconforming signs may be altered or modified so as
to permit a change in the message conveyed thereon, provided such message shall
not be in violation of any rule or regulation set forth in this chapter.
         (d)   Said legal nonconforming signs shall, in the event of any damage
thereto, be repaired in conformance with the rules and regulations, standards,
and specifications herein contained, which control the construction,
illumination, landscaping, and maintenance of signs.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the owner of any such damaged sign may elect to
reconstruct said sign in conformance with all bulk regulations relating to such
sign face area, height, and location, or in the alternative, may elect to
repair said nonconforming sign to the same location up to the same height and
having the same face area as existed with respect to such sign prior to the
damage or destruction thereof.
         (e)   Said legal nonconforming sign may not be enlarged, expanded, or
added onto.
         (f)   Said legal nonconforming sign may be altered, reconstructed, or
replaced with a new sign, provided that there shall be no increase in the
extent of the nonconformity of any such altered, reconstructed, or replacement
sign.
      2.   Maintenance And Landscaping: All legal nonconforming signs shall be
brought into compliance with each rule and regulation set forth in this chapter
relating to the maintenance and landscaping of signs and of lots and parcels
improved with signs. (Ord. 0-38-94, 9-6-1994; amd. Ord. 0-04-00, 4-3-2000; Ord.
0-24-18, 12-17-2018; Ord. 0-16-19, 5-6-2019)
4-3-18: ADMINISTRATIVE DETERMINATIONS; PERMITS, VARIANCES AND APPEALS:
   (A)   Sign Permits Required:
      1.   Permanent Signs: It shall be unlawful for any person to erect,
repair, alter or relocate within the City any sign or other advertising
structure as defined in this chapter without first obtaining a sign permit from
the Director of Community Development and making payment of the fee required by
separate City ordinance. Routine maintenance and changing of parts designed to
be changed shall not be considered an alteration, provided such change does not
alter the surface area, height or otherwise make the sign nonconforming. All
illuminated signs shall, in addition, be subject to the provisions of the
Electrical Code and permit fees required thereunder; provided, however, that a
sign permit is not required for signs enumerated in section
4-3-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 0-38-94, 9-6-1994; amd. Ord. 0-25-95, 7-17-1995;
Ord. 0-04-00, 4-3-2000)
      2.   Permits For Temporary Signs: All temporary signs except for those
enumerated in section
4-3-8 of this chapter, shall require a permit. Possession of a valid permit for
a temporary sign shall entitle the owner to display one temporary sign for not
more than thirty (30) days. Permits for temporary signs must be kept on the
premises where the sign is displayed and must be shown to the Director or
representative at his request.
      3.   Alter, Repair, Or Relocate Existing Signs: Any person desiring a
temporary or permanent sign permit or a permit to alter, repair, or relocate an
existing sign, shall file application therefor upon a form which shall contain
or have attached thereto the following information:
         (a)   Name, address and telephone number of applicant and property
owner if different from the applicant.
         (b)   A map, drawn to scale, showing the location of the building,
structure, or lot to which the sign is to be attached or erected, and showing
the position of the sign in relation to nearby buildings, thoroughfares and
property lines.
         (c)   Plans and specifications, drawn to scale, showing the design of
the sign, size in square feet, materials to be used, electrical components,
method of construction, and means of attachment to the building or ground.
         (d)   The name of the person, firm, corporation, or association
erecting, altering, or moving said sign.
         (e)   Written consent of the owner of the land on which the sign is to
be erected, altered or relocated.
         (f)   Any other information as the Director shall require in order to
show full compliance with this and other applicable ordinances of the City.
Application for a permit for a new temporary sign shall be made on a form
provided by the Director.
   (B)   Variation Of Regulations:
      1.   Variance Procedure: Variances from the provisions of this sign code
may be granted by the City Council after a hearing has been held and a
recommendation filed in writing with the City Council by the Plan Commission.
Application for variances shall be made to the Plan Commission with a copy
transmitted to the City Council. The Plan Commission shall consider a request
for a variance at a regular or special meeting of the Board, but no published
public notice of the consideration of the request for a variance need be made.
In the event that the Plan Commission has not transmitted a recommendation to
the City Council within fifteen (15) days after being specifically notified by
the City Council that it desires a recommendation in the matter, the City
Council may itself consider the variance based upon the assumption that the
Plan Commission has recommended against the approval of the variance; provided,
however, that in the case of planned unit developments, the Plan Commission is
vested with jurisdiction over recommending variances under this sign code. The
Plan Commission or City Council may impose reasonable restrictions or
conditions which the applicant shall be required to observe if the variance is
granted. In considering the application for a variance, the Plan Commission and
the City Council shall consider the following:
         (a)   The available locations for adequate signage on the property;
         (b)   The effect of the proposed sign on pedestrian and motor traffic;
         (c)   The cost to the applicant in complying with the sign code as
opposed to the detriment, if any, to the public from granting of the variance;
         (d)   If undue hardships and practical difficulties result in
complying with the sign code and if these hardships are a result of previous
actions of the applicant;
         (e)   The general intent of the sign code.
      2.   Variances Directly By City Council: The City Council may grant one
type of variance without prior hearing before the Plan Commission. This type of
variance shall be to allow the placement of an off-site directional sign, or
signs, indicating the location of a particular building, structure, development
or other location or event within the City. A request for such a variance shall
be made by the person who owns or controls the premises for which a directional
sign is requested. The purpose of such a sign, or signs, shall be to notify
motorists or pedestrians as to the location of a new structure or development
or a new use of a structure or development or the location of an event. A
variance to allow the placement of such sign, or signs, may be granted for a
period of up to one year and such variance may be renewed by a motion of the
City Council. The applicant shall submit to the City Council with his
application, information regarding the specific location, size, and text to
appear on the proposed sign or signs. Such signs shall not contain advertising
regarding the premises but only information sufficient to guide a motorist or
pedestrian to the site, and in the case of an event, the date and hours of the
event. The application shall also contain a statement as to the duration for
which the sign, or signs, are requested to remain in place. The fees payable
for such a sign shall be the same as those payable for other signs unless the
fee shall be waived in whole or in part by the City Council.
      3.   Variances Directly By Mayor And City Administrator: The Mayor and
City Administrator may grant one type of variance without prior hearing before
the Plan Commission, or a determination by the City Council. Such variances may
be granted by the Mayor and City Administrator if both of them find that
adverse economic conditions render the signage regularly allowable under the
ordinances of the City inadequate to inform potential purchasers or renters of
the existence or availability of commercial or multi-family residential units.
Applications for the granting of this variance shall be presented in writing to
the Mayor and City Administrator. The Mayor and Administrator shall only
consider requests for a maximum of one "on site" and one "off site" sign from
each applicant. No two (2) signs granted under this subsection (B)3 may be
closer than one hundred feet (100') of each other. Prior to granting the
variance, the Mayor and City Administrator shall determine that the development
in question is experiencing difficulty in the achievement of full rental or
sale of available units, and that the properties would benefit from additional
signage or other variances of this Sign Code, and that the temporary placement
of these additional signs or the granting of other variances would not
adversely affect the health or safety of the owners or residents of surrounding
properties or the public in general. The decision of the Mayor and City
Administrator to grant or not to grant a variance under this subsection shall
not be appealable. The Mayor shall advise the Council of any decision made
within ten (10) days after such decision is reached. In the event that
subsequent to the construction of the sign or the excise of the variance is
granted, it should be determined by the Mayor and City Administrator that the
action taken did adversely affect the health or safety of the owners or
residents of surrounding properties or the public in general, the person
granted the variance shall remove the sign or take such corrective action as
ordered by the Mayor and City Administrator, within thirty (30) days after the
date of written direction to so proceed.
The Mayor and City Administrator may grant any variances of the Sign Code;
provided, however, that the maximum size of the signage allowed shall not
exceed sixteen (16) square feet per sign face with double sided signs
containing a maximum of thirty two (32) square feet being permitted. Provided,
further, however, that where property is located within one thousand two
hundred feet (1,200') of the center line of United States Highway I-55, the
variance granted may allow a single faced sign containing up to sixty four (64)
square feet. Variances under this subsection may be granted for a period of no
more than six (6) months with the Mayor and City Administrator being permitted
to grant one (1) 6-month extension upon the request of the applicant. Variances
under this subsection may be granted for signs which were constructed prior to
the inclusion of this subsection within the Sign Code.
There shall be an application fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for the first
request, and a similar twenty five dollar ($25.00) fee for the request for an
additional six (6) months.
   (C)   Issuance Or Denial Of Sign Permit:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the Director, upon the filing of an
application for a sign permit to examine such plans and specifications and
other data and the premises upon which such sign or other advertising structure
is proposed to be erected, and if it shall appear that the proposed structure
is in compliance with all the requirements of this Sign Code, and all other
laws and ordinances of the City, the Director shall then issue the sign permit.
Every applicant, before being granted a permit under this Sign Code, shall pay
the requisite permit fee to the City for each sign. The amount of such permit
fees are set forth in subsection
4-1-14-3(B)8 of this title, and as it may be amended from time to time. If the
work authorized under a sign permit has not been completed within six (6)
months after the date of the issuance, said permit shall become null and void.
      2.   
   (D)   Limitations: Sign permits shall permit the erection, reerection,
alteration, relocation, affixing or painting of a sign only on the property
designated in the permit and only by the person to whom the permit was issued.
The permit shall not be transferable. A separate sign permit must be obtained
for each sign for which a permit is required.
   (E)   
4-3-19: ADMINISTRATIVE BODIES; JURISDICTION AND DUTIES:
   (A)   The City Council shall take final action on all variances after review
of the Plan Commission’s recommendations and on all amendments to this sign
code, and shall receive and act upon all reports on the effectiveness of this
sign code.
   (B)   The Plan Commission shall hear, consider and recommend to the City
Council on all applications for variances from the terms provided in this sign
code, other than sign variances requested with a planned unit development. The
Plan Commission shall also hear, consider and decide appeals from any order,
requirements, decision, or determination made by the Director; keep records of
its meetings, findings, and recommendations and reports under this sign code;
initiate, direct and review from time to time studies of the provisions of this
sign code; and make reports of its recommendations to the City Council. The
Plan Commission shall also hear, consider and recommend to the City Council on
all other matters referred to it from time to time by the City Council.
   (C)   The Director shall enforce the provisions of this sign code. He shall
examine all applications for permits for erection of new signs which conform
with the requirements of this sign code, record and file all applications for
permits with any accompanying plans and documents, make periodic inspection of
all signs in the City, ensure that all signs within the City meet the
requirements of this Chapter and submit reports as directed by the City
Administrator.
   (D)   The Plan Commission shall hear, consider and recommend to the City
Council on applications for variances from the terms provided in this sign code
which are requested as part of a planned unit development. (Ord. 0-38-94, 9-6-
1994; amd. Ord. 0-04-00, 4-3-2000; Ord. O-01-25, 1-20-2025)
4-3-20: REVOCATION OF PERMIT, VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   (A)   Revocation Of Permit: The Director is hereby authorized and empowered
to revoke any sign permit issued by him if there has been a violation of the
provisions of this sign code.
      1.   In the event that the person to whom the sign permit has been
granted fails to complete or assure completion of the work required in
accordance with the provisions of the permit, the Director shall notify such
person in writing of any such failure. If such failure is not corrected within
ten (10) days after notification, the sign permit may be revoked by the
Director.
      2.   Any sign permit issued under this sign code may be revoked by order
of the City Council or the Director when it is shown by satisfactory proof:
         (a)   The permit was issued without or in excess of the authority of
the Director;
         (b)   The application for the sign permit contained material
misrepresentation of the fact; or
         (c)   The sign(s) was/were erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered or used in a manner not in compliance with the submittals which served
as the basis for the issuance of the permit.
      3.   In the event of revocation of a sign permit, the sign(s) authorized
by said permit shall be removed promptly at the expense of the applicant.
      4.   If, after a sign permit is granted, the sign covered by such permit
shall not be constructed, erected and/or installed within six (6) months after
the date thereof, then the sign permit shall expire by the terms thereof, and
no sign thereunder shall be constructed, erected and/or installed until a new
sign permit has been granted.
   (B)   Violation Of Regulations:
      1.   If the Director shall find that any sign is unsafe, insecure or a
menace to the public, or has been constructed, erected or maintained in
violation of the provisions of this sign code, the Director shall give written
notice of such condition or violation to the person to whom the permit for said
sign has been issued, or if no permit has been issued, the owner, agent or
person having the beneficial use of the building, structure or property upon
which said sign is located. If the party to whom notice was given fails to
remove or alter the sign or sign structure so as to comply with the regulations
set forth in this sign code within ten (10) days after such notice, the
Director shall remove the sign at the expense of the owner of the sign.
      2.   Any sign which no longer identifies a bona fide business conducted
or a product sold on the premises where said sign is located is in violation of
this sign code and shall be taken down and removed by the owner, agent or
person having the beneficial use of the building, structure or property upon
which the sign is located within ten (10) days after written notification by
the Director. Upon failure to comply with such notice, the Director shall
remove the sign at the expense of the owner of the sign.
      3.   In addition to other remedies as specified in this sign code, the
City may institute any appropriate action or proceeding to prevent, restrain,
correct, or abate any violation of this sign code, including such actions as
may be necessary for the City to recoup costs incurred in pursuance of the
removal or alteration of signs as may be required by this sign code. The cost
of removal shall be deemed to include any incidental expenses, as well as all
direct and indirect costs incurred by the City in connection with the removal
of the sign.
      4.   In the event a sign presents an immediate peril or hazard to persons
or property, the Director may cause the sign to be removed summarily and
without notice. Such removal without notice shall not preclude the City from
recouping costs of such removal.
      5.   The Director shall not issue any sign permit to any person who
refuses to pay costs or expenses incurred by the City in removing or altering
any sign for which the person has previously obtained a permit, regardless of
whether legal proceedings have been initiated for the purpose of recovering
such costs.
   (C)   Penalties: Any person violating any of the provisions of this sign
code shall be fined not less than twenty dollars ($20.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00). Each day such violation is committed, or permitted
to continue, shall constitute a separate offense with respect to the
computation of fines. (Ord. 0-38-94, 9-6-1994; amd. Ord. 0-04-00, 4-3-2000)
4-3-21: LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES:
Neither the provisions of this sign code nor the issuance of any sign permit
shall be construed as relieving any person erecting, owning or maintaining any
sign from liability arising by reason of personal injury or property damage
resulting therefrom or work relating thereto, or as limiting the liability of
any such person by reason of personal injury or property damage so resulting.
The provisions of this sign code shall not be construed as imposing upon the
City or its officials, employees or agents, any liability by reason of the
approval of any sign under provisions of this sign code. (Ord. 0-38-94, 9-6-
1994; amd. Ord. 0-04-00, 4-3-2000)
TITLE 5A
ZONING REGULATIONS
Title, Purpose And Intent   1
Administration And Enforcement   2
Planned Unit Development Regulations   3
Nonconforming Buildings, Structures And Uses   4
General Provisions And Regulations   5
Zoning Districts   6
Residence Districts   7
Business Districts   8
Office And Industrial Districts   9
Cannabis Business Establishments   9A
Landscape Requirements   10
Off-Street Parking And Loading Requirements   11
Performance Standards   12
Zoning Definitions   13
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE AND INTENT
SECTION:
5A-1-1: Title
5A-1-2: Purpose And Intent
5A-1-1: TITLE:
This Title shall be known and cited as the DARIEN ZONING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 0-03-
00, 4-3-2000)
5A-1-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   (A)   This Zoning Title is adopted for the purpose of improving and
protecting the public health, safety, comfort, convenience, and general welfare
of the people. The fulfillment of this purpose is to be accomplished by seeking
the following objectives:
      1.   To lessen congestion on the public streets.
      2.   To avoid undue concentration of population.
      3.   To prevent the overcrowding of land, thereby ensuring proper living
and working conditions and preventing the development of blight and slums.
      4.   To establish adequate standards for the provision of light, air, and
open spaces.
      5.   To facilitate the provision of adequate transportation and/or other
public requirements and services such as water, sewerage, schools, open space,
and parks.
      6.   To zone all properties with a view to conserving the value of
buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the City.
      7.   To protect all areas alike from harmful encroachment by incompatible
uses and to ensure that land allocated to a class of uses shall not be usurped
by other inappropriate uses.
      8.   To avoid the inappropriate development of lands and provide for
adequate drainage, curbing of erosion, and reduction of flood damage.
      9.   To fix reasonable standards to which buildings and structures shall
conform.
      10.   To prevent such additions to, and alterations or remodeling of,
existing buildings or structures as would not comply with the restrictions and
limitations imposed herein.
      11.   To foster a more rational pattern of relationship between
residential, business, commercial, and manufacturing uses for the mutual
benefit of all.
      12.   To isolate or control the location of unavoidable nuisance-
producing uses.
      13.   To define the powers and duties of the administrative and
enforcement officers and bodies.
      14.   To prescribe penalties for any violation of the provisions of this
Title, or of any amendment thereto.
      15.   To enhance aesthetic values throughout the City.
   (B)   The standards and requirements contained in this Title, and the
district mapping reflected on the City Zoning District Map, are intended to
implement the planning policies of the City.
   (C)   Any ordinance of the City or any technical codes or public records
which are referred to as the standards under this Title are hereby adopted by
reference herein in the manner provided by statute. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
5A-2-1: Administrative Bodies
5A-2-1-1: Organization
5A-2-1-2: City Council
5A-2-1-3: Zoning Enforcement Officer
5A-2-1-4: Planning, Zoning, And Economic Development Commission
5A-2-1-5:Zoning Board Of Appeals (Rep. by Ord. O-01-25, 1-20-2025)
5A-2-1-6: Planning And Development Committee
5A-2-2: Administrative Functions
5A-2-2-1: Site Plan Review
5A-2-2-2: Certificates Of Occupancy
5A-2-2-3: Variations
5A-2-2-4: Appeals
5A-2-2-5: Amendments
5A-2-2-6: Special Uses
5A-2-3: Public Hearings And Notification
5A-2-4: Fees
5A-2-5: Penalties
5A-2-1: ADMINISTRATIVE BODIES:
5A-2-1-1: ORGANIZATION:
   (A)   The primary administration of this Title is hereby vested in five (5)
offices of the government of the City as follows:
      City Council.
      Plan Commission.
      Planning and Development Committee.
      Zoning Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   This Section shall first set out the authority of each of these five
(5) offices, and then describe the procedure and substantive standards with
respect to the following administrative functions:
      1.   Site plan review.
      2.   Issuance of occupancy certificates.
      3.   Variations.
      4.   Appeals.
      5.   Amendments.
      6.   Special uses.
      7.   Fees.
      8.   Penalties. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000; amd. Ord. O-01-25, 1-20-2025)
5A-2-1-2: CITY COUNCIL:
   (A)   Jurisdiction: The City Council shall retain the following duties and
responsibilities under this Title:
      1.   Take final action on all applications for amendments to the Zoning
Title text or map, and special uses, after the public hearing held by the Plan
Commission and the recommendation of the Planning and Development Committee;
      2.   Take final action on all variations, after the public hearing held
by the Plan Commission;
      3.   Take action on applications for temporary buildings, structures, and
uses of land; and
      4.   Receive and act upon all reports on the effectiveness of this Title
along with recommendations for changes.
   (B)   Final Actions By City Council: All decisions and findings of the City
Council related to this Title shall, in all instances, be the final legislative
decision and shall be subject to judicial reviews as by law may be provided.
(Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000; amd. Ord. O-01-25, 1-20-2025)
5A-2-1-3: ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
   (A)   Creation: The Director of Community Development shall be the Zoning
Enforcement Officer, and shall have the authority to enforce the provisions of
this Title.
   (B)   Jurisdiction: The Zoning Enforcement Officer and such deputies or
assistants as have been, or shall be, duly designated by the Zoning Enforcement
Officer shall enforce this Title, and in addition thereto, and in furtherance
of such authority shall:
      1.   Determine conformance of applications with regulations of this
Title;
      2.   Issue all certificates of occupancy and make and maintain records
thereof;
      3.   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures, and use of land to
determine compliance with the terms of this Title;
      4.   Issue violation notices, and advise persons found in violation of
their right of appeal;
      5.   Revoke any permit which was unlawfully issued and require that all
construction work of any type be stopped when such work is not in compliance
with this Title; provided, that the owner or owners, agents, or person in
charge of the construction site be given notice twenty four (24) hours prior to
such stoppage except in case of an emergency endangering the health, safety,
and welfare of the City;
      6.   Maintain permanent and current records of the administration and
enforcement of this Title, including, but not limited to, applications,
processing, and decisions for all amendments, variations, and appeals, and
designate on the Zoning District Map each amendment and special use granted by
the City Council;
      7.   Register and issue permits for all nonconforming buildings,
structures, and uses;
      8.   Review and approve or deny, all applications for nonlisted uses;
      9.   Forward to the Planning and Development Committee all applications
for special uses, companion variations, amendments to this Title, appeals,
variations, or other matters on which the Planning and Development Committee is
required to review under this Title;
      10.   Forward to the Plan Commission, all applications for special uses,
companion variations, amendments to this Title, or other matters on which the
Plan Commission is required to review under this Title;
      11.   Forward to the Plan Commission all applications for appeals,
variations, or other matters on which the Plan Commission is required to review
under this Title;
      12.    Forward pertinent applications to appropriate staff members and
other governmental agencies for review;
      13.    Periodically initiate and review the provisions of this Title and
the administrative records and make a report of recommendations to the City
Council not less frequently than once a year; and
      14.    Provide such technical assistance as may be required by the Plan
Commission in the exercise of their duties. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000; amd. Ord.
O-01-25, 1-20-2025)
5A-2-1-4: PLANNING, ZONING, AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION:
   (A)   Creation: A Planning, Zoning and Economic Development Commission is
hereby established. The Commission shall consist of seven (7) members,
appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council, who
shall serve without salary. One member of the Commission may live outside of
the City, but shall be a member of the Darien business community.
   (B)   Initial Appointments: Initial appointments to the Commission shall be
as follows:
      1.   Three (3) members shall be appointed for a term ending April 30,
2028.
      2.   Two (2) members shall be appointed for a term ending April 30, 2027.
      3.   Two (2) members shall be appointed for a term ending April 30, 2026.
      4.   Thereafter, all appointments shall be made for three (3) year terms.
Annually, one of the members of the Commission shall be designated as
chairperson by the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council.
      5.   Commission vacancies shall be served for the unexpired term of the
member whose position has become vacant in the manner provided for the
appointment of such member.
      6.   Commission members may be removed by the Mayor subject to
disapproval by the City Council as provided by Section 3.1-35-10 of the
Illinois Municipal Code.
   (C)   Jurisdiction: The Commission shall discharge the following duties:
      1.   Review all applications for amendments to the Zoning Ordinance (text
or map) and for special uses, hold public hearings thereon, and report its
findings and recommendations to the Planning and Development Committee and City
Council;
      2.   Review all applications for companion variations made as a part of a
petition for an amendment, annexation, special use, and/or plat application,
hold hearings thereon, and report findings and recommendations to the Planning
and Development Committee and City Council;
      3.   Initiate, direct, and review, from time to time, studies of the
provisions of the Zoning Ordinance, and make reports of its recommendations
relative to proposed amendments to the Planning and Development Committee and
City Council;
      4.   Initiate, review, and make recommendations to the Planning and
Development Committee and City Council regarding amendments to the
Comprehensive Plan and the Official Map;
      5.   Review and make recommendations to the Planning and Development
Committee and City Council regarding proposed plats of subdivisions within the
territorial jurisdiction of the City;
      6.   From time to time, make recommendations to the City Council
regarding potential actions and programs which will preserve and foster
economic development in the City.
      7.   Identify potential economic incentives which may be offered to
businesses.
      8.   Act on all other matters which are referred to it, from time to
time, or as required by the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance; and
      9.   Keep records of its meetings, hearings, findings, recommendations,
and reports.
   (D)   Meetings And Rules: The Commission shall meet on the first and third
Wednesday of each month. All other meetings of the Commission under this
Chapter shall be held at the call of the chairperson or of any three (3)
members of the Commission and at such other times as the Commission may
determine. All hearings conducted by said Commission under the authority
conferred by this Chapter shall be open to the public and shall be announced as
provided by law. In all proceedings of the Commission provided for in this
Chapter, the chairperson, and in the chairperson's absence, the acting
chairperson, shall have the power to administer oaths. The Commission shall
keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote, of each member upon each
question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall also
keep records of its hearings and other official actions. No hearing shall be
conducted without a quorum of the Commission being present. A quorum shall
consist of a majority of all members then in office. However, fewer than the
number of members necessary to establish a quorum may recess a meeting to
another specific date and time. No final action shall be taken on any measure
before it, except with the concurrence of a majority of the members then in
office. A copy of every rule or regulation, every amendment and special use,
and every recommendation, order, requirement, decision, or determination of the
Commission under this Chapter shall be filed immediately in the office of the
City Clerk and shall be public record. The Commission may adopt its own rules
and procedures, not in conflict with this Chapter or with applicable Illinois
statutes. The members of the Commission shall elect an acting chairperson, who
shall serve in the absence of the chairperson and may select or appoint such
persons authorized to be employed by the City Council who shall be deemed
necessary for the proper discharge of the powers and duties conferred upon the
Commission under this Chapter.
   (E)   Recommendations Of The Commission: All recommendations of the
Commission, upon any application for a text or map amendment, special use,
companion variations, or upon any other matter, after a public hearing, shall,
in all instances, be advisory in nature and shall be subject to final
consideration, evaluation, and determination by the City Council. (Ord. 0-03-
00, 4-3-2000; amd. Ord. O-01-25, 1-20-2025)
5A-2-1-5: ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS:
(Rep. by Ord. O-01-25, 1-20-2025)
5A-2-1-6: PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE:
   (A)   Creation: The planning and development committee, a standing committee
of the city council, is authorized to be established in title 1, chapter 5 of
this code.
   (B)   Jurisdiction: The planning and development committee is hereby vested
with the jurisdiction, authority, and duties under this title to hear,
consider, and make recommendations to the city council for any recommendation
pertaining to this title forwarded to it by the plan commission, zoning board
of appeals, or zoning enforcement officer.
   (C)   Meetings And Rules: The planning and development committee shall meet
the second Monday of every month. All other meetings of the planning and
development committee shall be held at the call of the chairperson. All
meetings shall be open to the public and shall be announced as provided by law.
The planning and development committee shall keep minutes of its proceedings,
showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such fact. No meeting shall be conducted without a quorum of
the committee being present. A quorum shall consist of two (2) members. Minutes
of committee meetings must be recorded with approved minutes being distributed
to the city council. A copy of every rule or regulation, every amendment and
special use, and every recommendation, order, requirement, decision, or
determination of the planning and development committee under this chapter
shall be filed immediately in the office of the city clerk and shall be a
public record. The planning and development committee may adopt its own rules
and procedures, not in conflict with this chapter or with applicable Illinois
statutes. (Ord. 0-19-05, 7-18-2005; amd. Ord. O-01-25, 1-20-2025)
5A-2-2: ADMINISTRATIVE FUNCTIONS:
5A-2-2-1: SITE PLAN REVIEW:
   (A)   Intent: The city recognizes that the very nature of land development
creates potential for traffic congestion, overcrowding, adverse environmental
impacts, and health related problems. To ensure that the details of developing
commercial, office, research, and industrial areas for authorized uses will be
such that the operation of the uses will not offend the public interest, will
be compatible and be planned in conformity with surrounding uses and will not
adversely affect the flow of traffic within the community, a site plan shall be
submitted for approval by the corporate authorities, after review by the zoning
enforcement officer. Site plan reviews shall help ensure compliance with the
meaning and intent of the zoning ordinance, and all portions thereof.
   (B)   Applicability: All applications involving an increase in square
footage (except for detached single-family dwellings) shall be subject to site
plan review approval in accordance with the provisions established herein.
Applications for site plan approval which include requests for map amendments,
variations, special uses, or subdivision approval, are processed concurrently
with the map amendment, variations, special uses, or subdivision approval.
   (C)   General Procedures And Submittal Information: Prior to the filing of a
formal application for site plan approval, the petitioner may be required to
meet with the zoning enforcement officer. The zoning enforcement officer may
require the submittal of a site plan, plat of survey, or similar information
for any proposed development or approval related to the administrative
functions described in this title. All required site plans, plats of survey,
and other required information shall conform to the requirements of this title.
The following plans may be required by the zoning enforcement officer:
      1.   Plats Of Survey: Plats of survey must indicate all existing
conditions and shall be signed and sealed by an Illinois registered land
surveyor.
      2.   Site Plans: All required site plans shall be prepared by either a
licensed architect, a licensed landscape architect, a registered land surveyor,
a licensed engineer, or a professional land planner. The site plan shall be in
conformance with all appropriate city ordinances. At a minimum, said site plan
shall include the following information:
         (a)   Lot dimensions.
         (b)   All buildings and structures, existing and proposed.
         (c)   Easements, including location, width and purpose of existing and
proposed easements.
         (d)   Yards and spaces between buildings.
         (e)   Walls and fences.
         (f)   Vehicular, pedestrian, and service access, including the
distance from the driveway opening at the curb to the prolongation of the
property line of the nearest intersection street, the width of the driveway at
the property line, the curb radius on each side of the driveway, identification
and location of curb lines, property lines, sidewalks, existing driveways, bus
zones, parking regulations and signs, traffic signals, utility poles, parkway
meters, light standards, and fire hydrants.
         (g)   Off street parking and loading facilities, including number of
spaces and dimensions of parking areas.
         (h)   Location of outdoor storage and activities, if allowed.
         (i)   Location of refuse disposal facilities.
      3.   Final Engineering Plans: All required engineering plans shall be
prepared by a licensed engineer, and shall be in conformance with all
appropriate city ordinances. Detailed plans shall be submitted for the design,
construction, or installation of site amenities; including buildings,
landscaping, lakes, sewer, water, storm water and floodwater control, street
facilities, and other site improvements, including specifications. Said plans
shall include drainage and grading plans and utility plans. When required by
Title 6B, Chapter 1 of this Code, applicable storm water calculations, wetland
delineation, and flood plain delineation are required with site plan approval.
      4.   Landscape Plans: All required landscape plans shall be prepared by
either a licensed architect, a licensed landscape architect, a licensed land
surveyor, a licensed engineer, or a professional land planner and shall be in
compliance with Section
5A-10-10 of this Title.
      5.   Sign Plan: Sign plans shall be submitted in compliance with the
Darien Sign Ordinance (Title 4, Chapter 3 of this Code).
      6.   Building Elevations: Building elevations.
      7.   Photometric Plans: Photometric plans including location, size,
height, and method of illumination.
      8.   Traffic Study: If deemed necessary by the Zoning Enforcement
Officer, a traffic study shall be required. A traffic analysis providing
information on the adequacy of the local transportation and thoroughfare system
to handle anticipated traffic volumes generated by the development, on
potential traffic hazards and points of friction caused by the proposed
development, and on the proposed road improvements deemed necessary to service
the development, and an analysis of the adequacy of the internal vehicular
circulation pattern.
   (D)   Variations And Appeals: All requests for a building permit which vary
in any way from the required site plan standards shall be required to follow
the variation procedure outlined in Section
5A-2-2-3 of this Chapter. An applicant may contest decisions of the Zoning
Enforcement Officer following the appeals procedure outlined in Section
5A-2-2-4 of this Chapter. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-2-2-2: CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
   (A)   Authority: No land shall be occupied or used for a new use, and no
building hereafter erected or altered shall be occupied or used in whole or in
part for any purpose whatsoever, until a certificate of occupancy shall have
been issued by the Zoning Enforcement Officer stating that the building
complies with all the applicable ordinances of the City. No change of use shall
be made in any building or part thereof, now or hereafter erected or altered,
without a certificate of occupancy having been issued by the Zoning Enforcement
Officer, and no certificate of occupancy shall be issued to make such change,
unless it is in conformity with the provisions of this Title and amendments
thereto.
   (B)   Application For A Certificate: Every application for a certificate
shall be filed with the Zoning Enforcement Officer and shall be accompanied by
such information as may be required by the Zoning Enforcement Officer for the
proper enforcement of this Title. Every application for a certificate for an
industrial use shall have affixed to it the certificate of a licensed
professional engineer licensed with the State of Illinois, certifying that the
building or structure, and the proposed use thereof, complies with all of the
provisions of this Title respecting performance standards for industrial and
similar uses as specified in Chapter 12 of this Title. It shall be deemed a
violation of this Title for any person to falsely certify as to the compliance
of submitted plans and documents with said performance standards.
   (C)   Issuance: Certificates of occupancy and compliance shall be applied
for coincident with the application for a building permit, if one is required,
and shall be issued, or written notice shall be given to the applicant stating
the reasons for a denial of such certificate, within twenty one (21) days after
the erection or alteration of such building has been completed, or twenty one
(21) days after the application for a certificate was filed if only a change in
use without any building alterations or new construction was applied for, or
within such further period as may be agreed to by the applicant. A record of
all certificates shall be kept on file in the office of the Zoning Enforcement
Officer and copies shall be furnished on request to any person having
proprietary or tenancy interest in the building affected. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-
2000)
5A-2-2-3: VARIATIONS:
   (A)   Authority: In cases where there are practical difficulties or
particular hardships in the way of carrying out the strict letter of any of the
regulations adopted by this Title, the City Council may, by ordinance,
determine and vary the application of such regulations in harmony with their
general purpose and intent, and in accordance with the general or specific
rules herein contained; provided, however, that a variation shall be granted or
denied by the City Council only after a public hearing before the Plan
Commission as provided herein, with the following exceptions:
      1.   Simple Variations:
         (a)   Applicability: The Plan Commission may grant variations of the
Zoning Ordinance with a public hearing, but without requiring approval of the
City Council in certain situations. This authority applies only to single lot
variation requests for existing single-family detached homes on detached
single-family residential lots where all other provisions of this Code are met,
and is limited by the following conditions:
            (1)   May reduce required front yard by no more than ten percent
(10%).
            (2)   May reduce required interior side yard to a minimum of seven
and one-half feet (7.5').
            (3)   May reduce required corner side yard by no more than ten
percent (10%).
         (b)   Notification Of Surrounding Property Owners: All properties
within one hundred twenty five feet (125') shall be notified by mail of the
date, time, and simple variation being requested.
         (c)   Action By The Plan Commission: All such variation requests will
be heard at a regular meeting of the Plan Commission. The Plan Commission shall
have final authority on simple variations.
   (B)   Initiation: An application for a variation may be made by any person,
firm, or corporation, being the owner, lessee, or contract purchaser of the
subject property.
   (C)   Application: If deemed necessary by the Zoning Enforcement Officer, a
preapplication meeting with the Zoning Enforcement Officer is required prior to
the City accepting an application for a variation. The Zoning Enforcement
Officer may solicit the input of the appropriate staff members and other
governmental agencies. An application for a variation shall be filed in writing
with the Zoning Enforcement Officer, with a copy to the City Clerk, in such
forms and containing such information as the Plan Commission may from time to
time prescribe. No application shall be accepted by the City for processing
until all the required documentation has been submitted by the applicant. If
the application is deemed incomplete, the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall
notify the applicant in writing, with a copy to the City Clerk, specifying the
information and documentation that must be submitted by the applicant to
complete the application. If the application is deemed complete, the Zoning
Enforcement Officer shall notify the applicant that the City has accepted the
application and shall forthwith process and forward the application to the Plan
Commission, as provided herein, for review and public hearing with a copy of
such application forwarded to the City Council for their information at its
next regular meeting. Any changes in the application made by the applicant,
whether initiated by the applicant or at the request of the City, shall be
submitted to the Plan Commission via the Zoning Enforcement Officer no later
than two (2) weeks prior to the scheduled date of the public hearing. Any
change not submitted by that time may be accepted by the Plan Commission, at
their discretion, by majority vote or the application may be recommended for
continuation to a future meeting.
   (D)   Action By The Plan Commission: The Plan Commission shall hold a public
hearing within forty five (45) days after the date the application was deemed
complete. Notice of all public hearings conducted by the Plan Commission,
wherein an application for a variation is to be considered, shall be published
at least once, not more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days before
said hearing in one or more newspapers with a general circulation within the
City. A public hearing once commenced may be continued from time to time with
the approval of the applicant. Where the date, place and time of the next
hearing is announced at the close of the last hearing, no further notice of the
next hearing need be made; otherwise, notice of the date, place and time of the
new hearing must be made in the manner provided by law. Where the applicant
objects to a continuance, only one further continuance of not more than
fourteen (14) days shall be allowed. The Plan Commission shall, within thirty
(30) days after the close of the public hearing, transmit a written report
giving its findings and recommendations to the City Council. If no report is
filed within this time period and no time extension is granted by the City
Council, the application shall be deemed to have received a recommendation of
denial. Provided, however, that if at any time after the commencement of the
public hearing the City Council has required by motion that the Plan Commission
close the public hearing and present a written report containing findings and
recommendations no later than forty five (45) days from the date of the motion,
the Commission shall be so required, and failure to file such report within the
forty five (45) days shall be deemed a recommendation to deny the application.
The Plan Commission may recommend that the city council impose such conditions
and restrictions upon the premises as may be necessary to comply with the
standards established in this section and the objectives of this title, and
other ordinances of the city.
   (E)   Action By The Planning And Development Committee: Upon receipt of the
recommendation of the Plan Commission, the planning and development committee
may recommend that the city council impose such conditions and restrictions
upon the premises as may be necessary to comply with the standards established
in this section and the objectives of this title, and other ordinances of the
city.
   (F)   Action By The City Council:
      1.   The city council, by motion, may require the close of the public
hearing and the presentation of a report containing findings and
recommendations no later than forty five (45) days after the date of the
motion. In the event that no report is filed with the city council within the
forty five (45) days, the application shall be considered as having received a
recommendation of denial.
      2.   The city council, after receiving the report of the Plan Commission,
or, if no report is received, after the time period allowed to file such report
has elapsed, and without further public hearing, may grant or deny the proposed
variation or may refer the matter back to the Plan Commission for further
consideration. The commission shall, within the time period stipulated by the
city council in its communication or, if no time period is so stipulated, no
later than thirty (30) days from the date of referral by the city council,
transmit a written report to the city council. If no report is received by the
city council within the stipulated time period and no further time extension is
granted, the application shall be deemed to have received a recommendation of
denial. Every variation which is granted shall be accompanied by findings of
fact specifying the reason or reasons for making the variation. Any proposed
variation which fails to receive the approval of the zoning board of appeals or
plan commission shall not be passed except by the favorable vote of two-thirds
(2/3) of the city aldermen then holding office.
      3.   If an application for a variation is not acted upon finally within
ninety (90) days of the date upon which such application is initially returned
to the city council from the Plan Commission, it shall be deemed to have been
denied. However, if the applicant requests of the city council that the ninety
(90) day time period be extended, the city council may postpone its final
action on the application until the expiration of the time extension requested.
If the application is not acted upon within the time extension period and no
further extensions are requested by the applicant and used by the city council,
the application shall be deemed to have been denied.
      4.   The city council may impose such conditions and restrictions upon
the premises benefited by a variation as may be necessary to comply with the
standards established in this section and the objectives of this title and
other ordinances of the city. In all cases in which variations are granted, the
city council shall require such evidence and guarantees as it may deem
necessary as proof that the conditions stipulated in connection therewith are
being, and will be, complied with, including, but not limited to, the
acceptance in writing of the owner of the property involved and other
interested parties of the conditions and guarantees set forth within the
ordinance granting the variation. A copy of the ordinance bearing the
acceptance may be recorded in the office of the county recorder of DuPage
County. The acceptance shall be in approximately the following form:
The undersigned being the (owner, tenant, contract purchaser, etc.) of the
property legally described in this ordinance (number) do/does hereby accept and
agree to abide by the requirements and guarantees contained and required within
this ordinance; and does hereby acknowledge that the fulfillment of such
conditions and guarantees are essential to the granting of the variation
allowed herein, and that, but for the imposition of these requirements and
guarantees, the variation would not have been granted. The undersigned do/does
further certify and agree that such conditions and guarantees shall equally
bind and be effective against any/all successor/successors to the interest of
the undersigned. The commitment herein made shall run with the land and shall
be enforceable by the City of Darien in a court of law or equity in addition to
any and all other remedies available to the City to secure compliance with the
conditions and guarantees agreed to herein.
(Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
   (G)   Criteria:
      1.   Eligibility: The City may grant variations to any provision of this
title, except for variations to the "non-conforming buildings, structures, and
uses" provisions, which are in chapter 4 of this title, and the "permitted
uses" and "special uses" provisions of each zoning district, which are in
chapters 7, 8, and 9 of this title.
      2.   State Decision Criteria: The City may grant variations only if the
finding-of-fact supports each of the following, as required by the Illinois
Municipal Code, sections
11-13-4 and 5.
         (a)   The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations in
the zone.
         (b)   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances.
         (c)   The variation if granted will not alter the essential character
of the locality.
      3.   City Decision Criteria: The City may grant variations based on the
finding-of-fact that supports the following criteria outlined below by the City
to be the most relevant to the subject property situation.
         (a)   Essential Need: The owner would suffer substantial difficulty or
hardship and not mere inconvenience or a decrease in financial gain if the
variation is not granted.
         (b)   Problem With Property: There is a feature of the property such
as slope or shape or change made to the property, which does not exist on
neighboring properties, which makes it unreasonable for the owner to make the
proposed improvement in compliance with this title. Such feature or change was
not made by the current owner and was not known to the current buyer at the
time of purchase.
         (c)   Smallest Solution: There is no suitable or reasonable way to
redesign the proposed improvements without incurring substantial difficulty or
hardship or reduce the amount of variation required to make such improvements.
         (d)   Create Neighbor Problem: The variation, if granted, will not
cause a substantial difficulty, undue hardship, unreasonable burden, or loss of
value to the neighboring properties.
         (e)   Create Community Problem: The variation, if granted, may result
in the same or similar requests from other property owners within the
community, but will not cause an unreasonable burden or undesirable result
within the community.
         (f)   Net Benefit: The positive impacts to the community outweigh the
negative impacts.
         (g)   Sacrifice Basic Protections: The variation, if granted, will
comply with the purposes and intent of this title set forth in subsection
5A-1-2(A) of this title and summarized as follows: to lessen congestion, to
avoid overcrowding, to prevent blight, to facilitate public services, to
conserve land values, to protect from incompatible uses, to avoid nuisances, to
enhance aesthetic values, to ensure an adequate supply of light and air, and to
protect public health, safety, and welfare. (Ord. 0-02-19, 1-21-2019)
   (H)   Revocation Of A Variation:
      1.   A variation granted by the City Council shall be subject to
revocation in the manner provided hereinbelow under any of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   Failure to obtain a building permit within six (6) months from
the date of the ordinance granting the variation.
         (b)   Failure to start construction for the alteration or erection of
the building or to commence the use within six (6) months from and after the
date of the granting of the building permit.
         (c)   Failure to carry the construction work forward expeditiously
with adequate forces for a period of six (6) months out of any twelve (12)
month period.
         (d)   Following the issuance of occupancy permits, abandonment, or
other failure to utilize the property for the purposes permitted by the
variation for a period of two (2) months out of any consecutive six (6) month
period.
         (e)   Destruction of or damage to the property by fire, collapse,
explosion, casualty or act of God to the extent that the cost of restoration to
the condition in which it was before the occurrence exceeds fifty percent (50%)
of the fair market value of the building or structure at the time of
destruction or damage.
         (f)   Destruction of or damage to the property by fire, collapse,
explosion, casualty or act of God to the extent that the cost of restoration to
the condition in which it was before the occurrence does not exceed fifty
percent (50%) of the fair market value of the structure or damage, if
restoration is not started within six (6) months from the date of partial
destruction, restoration does not proceed and ceases for any period of sixty
(60) days or the completion is not accomplished within twenty four (24) months
from the date of partial destruction.
         (g)   Where changed circumstances or experience derived from the
exercise of the variation previously granted indicates that the continuation of
the variation does not carry out the goals of this title. Provided, however,
that any variation so withdrawn may continue to exist until abated under the
provisions of chapter 4 of this title.
         (h)   Upon written application, the City Council may authorize
extensions of any time period specified hereinabove at any time prior to the
expiration of such time period, but each such extension shall not exceed six
(6) months at a time.
      2.   Upon written application by any person, the Plan Commission, or the
City Council, following the happening of any of the conditions specified in
subsection (H)1 of this Section, the Plan Commission shall hold a public
hearing with regard to whether any of the conditions described in subsection
(H)1 of this Section exist and whether on account of such conditions and other
circumstances the variation shall be revoked. Public notice of such hearing
shall be given by newspaper publication and the legal owner of record of the
subject property shall be notified by certified mail, return receipt requested.
The hearing shall otherwise be conducted in accordance with the procedures
required by statute and by Section
5A-2-3 of this Chapter.
      3.   Following such hearing, the Plan Commission shall prepare written
findings of fact and its recommendations regarding the continuation or
revocation of the variation. Such findings and recommendations shall be
transmitted forthwith to the Planning and Development Committee for a
recommendation and then to the City Council for final action. The City Council,
after receiving such findings and recommendations, or after the time period to
file such recommendations has elapsed, may either continue or revoke the
variation. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000; amd. Ord. O-01-25, 1-20-2025)
5A-2-2-4: APPEALS:
   (A)   Authority: The Plan Commission shall hear and decide appeals from any
administrative order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the
Zoning Enforcement Officer or other authorized official of the City having
jurisdiction under this Title.
   (B)   Initiation:
      1.   An appeal may be taken to the Plan Commission by any person
aggrieved by an administrative order, requirement, decision, or determination
under this Title by the Zoning Enforcement Officer or other authorized official
of the City having jurisdiction under this Title.
      2.   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to
the Plan Commission, after the notice of appeal has been filed, that by reason
of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in the officer's opinion,
cause peril to life or property. In this event the proceedings shall not be
stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the Plan
Commission to whom the appeal is taken, and on due cause shown.
   (C)   Application: An appeal must be taken within forty five (45) days after
the decision of the action complained of, by filing with the Zoning Enforcement
Officer and with the Plan Commission a notice of appeal specifying the grounds
thereof. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall forthwith transmit to the City
Clerk all of the papers constituting a record upon which the action appealed
from was taken. The City Clerk shall process and forward the application for
appeal to the Plan Commission for review and hearing and to the City Council
for their information at its next regularly scheduled meeting.
   (D)   Action By The Plan Commission:
      1.   The Plan Commission shall hold a hearing at a reasonable time and
place, within fifteen (15) days from the date the appeal was forwarded to it by
the City Clerk, and shall give notice thereof to the parties, including the
appellant, the Zoning Enforcement Officer, the Mayor, and any other affected
party who has requested in writing to be so notified. Such hearing shall not be
continued more than once without the consent of the applicant, and in that
event, for no more than seven (7) days.
      2.   The Plan Commission shall decide the appeal and forward a report of
their decision to the applicant and to the City Council within fifteen (15)
days after the close of the hearing. The Plan Commission may reverse or affirm,
wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement or decision or
determination as in its opinion ought to be made on the premises and to that
end has all the powers of the official from whom the appeal is taken.
      3.   All final administrative decisions of the Plan Commission under this
Section shall be subject to judicial review pursuant to the provisions of the
Administrative Review Act. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000; amd. Ord. O-01-25, 1-20-
2025)
5A-2-2-5: AMENDMENTS:
   (A)   Authority; Declaration Of Public Policy: For the purpose of promoting
the public health, safety, and general welfare, conserving the value of
property throughout the community, and lessening or avoiding congestion in the
public streets and highways, the City Council may, from time to time, after a
public hearing thereon by the Plan Commission, and subject to the procedure
provided in this Section, amend the regulations imposed in the districts
created by this Title (a "text amendment"), amend district boundary lines (a
"map amendment"), or grant district designations to lands newly annexed;
provided, however, that if no specific designation is given to land newly
annexed, that land shall automatically be given the R-1 District designation.
In all amendatory ordinances adopted under the authority of this Section, due
allowance shall be made for existing conditions, the conservation of property
values, the direction of building development to the best advantage of the
entire community, and the uses to which property is devoted at the time of the
adoption of such amendatory ordinance.
   (B)   Initiation: Amendments may be proposed by any governmental body or any
interested person or organization, with the exception of map amendments which
may be initiated only by the City Council, Plan Commission, or by a person
being the owner, lessee, or contract purchaser of the subject property.
   (C)   Application: No application for an amendment shall be submitted to the
City until a preapplication meeting has been held with the Zoning Enforcement
Officer and the applicant has addressed the concerns of the Zoning Enforcement
Officer, as advised by the appropriate staff members and other governmental
agencies. An application for an amendment shall be filed with the Zoning
Enforcement Officer, with a copy to the City Clerk, in such forms and
containing such information as the Zoning Enforcement Officer may, from time to
time, prescribe. The Zoning Enforcement Officer will review the application for
completeness. No application shall be accepted by the City for processing until
all the required documentation has been submitted by the applicant. If the
application is deemed incomplete, the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall notify
the applicant in writing, with a copy to the City Clerk, specifying the
information and documentation that must be submitted by the applicant to
complete the application. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall notify the
applicant that the City has accepted the application and shall forthwith
process and forward the application to the Plan Commission for review and
public hearing, with a copy of such application forwarded to the City Council
for their information at its next regular meeting. Any changes in the
application made by the applicant, whether initiated by the applicant or at the
request of the City, shall be submitted to the Plan Commission via the Zoning
Enforcement Officer no later than two (2) weeks prior to the scheduled date of
the public hearing. Any change not submitted by that time may be accepted by
the Plan Commission, at their discretion, by majority vote, or the application
may be recommended for continuance.
   (D)   Action By The Plan Commission: The Plan Commission shall hold a public
hearing on the proposed amendment within forty five (45) days from the date the
application was forwarded to the Plan Commission by the Zoning Enforcement
Officer. Notice of such hearing shall be published at least once not more than
thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days before such hearing in a newspaper
of general circulation within the City. Provided, however, that in the case of
text or map amendments initiated by the City, actual notice by certified mail,
not less than ten (10) days prior to the date of the public hearing, shall be
given to the person or persons to whom the current real estate tax bills are
sent, for each parcel of property affected by the amendment. Actual notice need
not be provided for parcels whenever the proposed amendment only makes textual
changes in the regulations of the district, nor for parcels in any district if
the amendment is a comprehensive amendment to the Zoning Title.
A public hearing, once commenced, may be continued from time to time with the
approval of the applicant. Where the date, place, and time of the next hearing
is announced at the close of the last hearing, no further notice of the next
hearing need be made; otherwise, notice of the date, place, and time of the new
hearing must be made in the manner provided by law. Where the applicant objects
to a continuance, only one further continuance of not more than fourteen (14)
days shall be allowed. The Plan Commission shall, within sixty (60) days after
the close of the public hearing, transmit a written report giving its findings
and recommendations to the City Council. If no report is filed within this time
period and no time extension is granted by the City Council, the application
shall be deemed to have received recommendation of denial. Provided, however,
that if at any time after the commencement of the public hearing the City
Council has required by motion that the Plan Commission close the public
hearing and present a written report containing findings and recommendations no
later than sixty (60) days from the date of the motion, the Plan Commission
shall be so required, and failure to file such report within the sixty (60)
days shall be deemed a recommendation to deny the application. The Plan
Commission may recommend that the City Council impose such conditions and
restrictions upon the premises as may be necessary to comply with the standards
established in this Section and the objectives of this Title and other
ordinances of the City.
   (E)   Action By The Planning And Development Committee: Upon receipt of the
recommendation of the Plan Commission, the Planning and Development Committee
may recommend that the City Council impose such conditions and restrictions
upon the premises as may be necessary to comply with the standards established
in this Section and the objectives of this Title, and other ordinances of the
City.
   (F)   Action By The City Council:
      1.   The City Council by motion may require the close of the public
hearing and the presentation of a report containing findings and
recommendations no later than forty five (45) days after the date of the
motion. In the event that no report is filed with the City Council within that
forty five (45) days, the application shall be considered as having received a
recommendation of denial.
      2.   The City Council, after receipt of the report from the Plan
Commission and Planning and Development Committee, or, if no report is
received, after the time period allowed to file such report has elapsed, and
without further public hearing, may grant or deny any proposed amendment or may
refer it back to the Plan Commission for further consideration. The Plan
Commission shall, within the time period stipulated by the City Council in its
communication, or if no time period is so stipulated, no later than forty five
(45) days from the date of referral by the City Council, transmit a written
report to the City Council. If no report is received by the City Council within
the stipulated time period and no further time extension is granted, the
application shall be deemed to have received a recommendation of denial.
      3.   In case a written protest against any proposed amendment of the
regulations or districts, signed and acknowledged (i.e., notarized) by the
owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage proposed to be altered, or by
the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage immediately adjoining or
across an alley therefrom, or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the
frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be altered, is filed with
the City Clerk, the amendment shall not be passed except by a favorable vote of
two-thirds (2/3) of the City Aldermen then holding office.
      4.   If an application for a proposed amendment is not acted upon finally
by the City Council within ninety (90) days of the date upon which such
application is initially returned to the City Council from the Plan Commission,
it shall be deemed to have been denied. However, if the applicant requests the
City Council that the ninety (90) day time period be extended, the City Council
may postpone its final action on the application until the expiration of the
time extension requested if the application is not acted upon within the time
extension period and no further extensions are requested by the applicant and
used by the City Council, the application shall be deemed to have been denied.
      5.   No application for a map amendment which has been denied by the City
Council shall be resubmitted for a period of one year from the date of denial
by the City Council. The City Council may, on the grounds of substantial new
evidence or proof of changed conditions, allow a new application to be
submitted to the City Clerk prior to the expiration of the one year period.
   (G)   Standards: The Plan Commission shall consider the following factors
and other pertinent factors in developing a recommendation for the City
Council:
      1.   Existing uses of property within the general area of the property in
question, and the resulting character of the general area;
      2.   The zoning classifications of property within the general area of
the property in question;
      3.   The suitability of the property in question to the uses permitted
under the existing zoning classification including consideration of the length
of time the property has been vacant as zoned;
      4.   The trend of development, if any, in the general area of the
property in question, including changes, if any, which have taken place in its
present zoning classifications and the impact to surrounding property likely to
result from the proposed use;
      5.   The reduction in value of the subject property resulting from the
particular zoning restriction as compared to the gain to the public if the
property remains restricted; and
      6.   The policies of all current official plans or plan elements of the
City.
The Plan Commission may recommend the adoption of an amendment changing the
zoning classification of the property in question to a more restrictive
classification than that requested by the applicant if said classification is
in conformance with the planning policies of the City. For the purpose of this
paragraph, the R-1 District shall be considered the most restrictive
classification and I-1 shall be considered the least restrictive
classification. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-2-2-6: SPECIAL USES:
   (A)   Authority: The development and execution of this Title is based upon
the division of the community into districts within which the use of land and
buildings, and the bulk and location of buildings and structures, in relation
to the land are substantially uniform. It is recognized, however, that there
are certain uses which, because of their unique characteristics, cannot be
properly classified in any particular district or districts, without
consideration, in each case, of the impact of those uses upon neighboring land
and of the public need for the particular use in the particular location. Such
special uses fall into three (3) categories:
      1.   Uses publicly operated or traditionally affected with a public
interest.
      2.   Uses entirely private in character, but of such an unusual nature
that their operation may give rise to unique problems with respect to their
impact upon neighboring property or public facilities.
      3.   Planned unit developments pursuant to Chapter 3 of this Title.
An application for a special use shall be acted upon by the City Council only
after a public hearing has been held by the Plan Commission after due notice by
publication, as provided by applicable Illinois Compiled Statutes and after
receiving the recommendation of the Planning and Development Committee.
   (B)   Initiation: Any person being the owner, lessee, or contract purchaser
of the subject property may file an application to use such land for one or
more of the special uses provided for in this Title in the zoning district in
which the land is located.
   (C)   Application: No application for a special use shall be submitted to
the City until a preapplication meeting has been held with the Zoning
Enforcement Officer and the applicant has addressed the concerns of the Zoning
Enforcement Officer, as advised by the appropriate staff members and other
governmental agencies. An application for a special use, except for planned
unit developments as controlled by Chapter 3 of this Title, shall be filed with
the Zoning Enforcement Officer with a copy to the City Clerk, on such forms and
requiring such information as the Zoning Enforcement Officer may from time to
time prescribe. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall review the application for
completeness. No application shall be accepted by the City for processing until
all the required documentation has been submitted by the applicant. If the
application is deemed incomplete, the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall notify
the applicant in writing, with a copy to the City Clerk specifying the
information and documentation that must be submitted by the applicant to
complete the application. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall notify the
applicant that the City has accepted the application and shall forthwith,
process and forward the application to the Plan Commission for review and
public hearing, with a copy of such application forwarded to the City Council
at its next regular meeting for their information. Any changes in the
application made by the applicant, whether initiated by the applicant or at the
request of the City, shall be submitted to the Plan Commission via the Zoning
Enforcement Officer no later than two (2) weeks prior to the scheduled date of
the public hearing. Any change not submitted by that time may be accepted by
the Plan Commission at their discretion by majority vote of the Plan Commission
or may be recommended for continuance.
   (D)   Action By The Plan Commission:
      1.   The Plan Commission shall hold a public hearing within forty five
(45) days from the date the application was deemed to be completed by the
Zoning Enforcement Officer. Notice of such hearing shall be published at least
once in a newspaper of general circulation in the City, not more than thirty
(30) nor less than fifteen (15) days before the date of such hearing. A public
hearing once commenced may be continued from time to time with the approval of
the applicant. Where the date, place, and time of the next hearing is announced
at the close of the last hearing, no further notice of the next hearing need be
made; otherwise, notice of the date, place and time of the new hearing must be
made in the manner provided by law. Where the applicant objects to a
continuance, only one further continuance of not more than fourteen (14) days
shall be allowed. The Plan Commission shall, within sixty (60) days after the
close of the public hearing, transmit a written report giving its findings and
recommendations to the Planning and Development Committee and City Council. If
no report is filed within this time period, and no time extension is granted by
the City Council, the application shall be deemed to have received a
recommendation of denial. Provided, however, that if at any time after the
commencement of the public hearing the City Council has required by motion that
the Plan Commission close the public hearing and present a written report
containing findings and recommendations no later than sixty (60) days from the
date of the motion, the Plan Commission shall be so required, and failure to
file such report within the sixty (60) days shall be deemed a recommendation to
deny the application. The Plan Commission may recommend that the City Council
impose such conditions and restrictions upon the premises as may be necessary
to comply with the standards established in this Section and the objectives of
this Title and other ordinances of the City.
      2.   The Plan Commission may request that the Zoning Enforcement Officer
prepare an evaluation of the proposed special use in regard to its impact on
official planning policies as they exist from time to time, and on existing
conditions of neighboring properties or districts. Said evaluation shall be
submitted by the Zoning Enforcement Officer within thirty (30) days of Plan
Commission request.
   (E)   Action By The Planning And Development Committee: Upon receipt of the
recommendation of the Plan Commission, the Planning and Development Committee
may recommend that the City Council impose such conditions and restrictions
upon the premises as may be necessary to comply with the standards established
in this Section and the objectives of this Title, and other ordinances of the
City.
   (F)   Action By City Council:
      1.   The City Council, by motion, may require the close of the public
hearing and the presentation of a report containing findings and
recommendations no later than forty five (45) days after the date of the
motion. In the event that no report is filed with the City Council within that
forty five (45) days, the application shall be considered as having received a
recommendation of denial.
      2.   The City Council, after receipt of the report of the Plan Commission
and Planning and Development Committee or, if no report is received, after the
time period allowed for filing such report has elapsed, and without any further
public hearing, may approve or deny the special use, or resubmit the
application to the Plan Commission for further consideration. The Plan
Commission shall, within the time period stipulated by the City Council in its
communication or, if no time period is so stipulated, no later than forty five
(45) days from the date of the referral by the City Council, transmit a written
report to the Planning and Development Committee and City Council. If no report
is received by the City Council within the stipulated time period and no
further time extension is granted, the application shall be deemed to have
received a recommendation of denial.
      3.   If an application for a special use is not acted upon finally within
ninety (90) days of the date upon which such application is initially returned
to the City Council from the Plan Commission, it shall be deemed to have been
denied. However, if the applicant requests the City Council that the ninety
(90) day time period be extended, the City Council may postpone its final
action until the expiration of the time extension requested. If the application
is not acted upon within the time extension period and no further extensions
are requested by the applicant and used by the City Council, the application
shall be deemed to have been denied.
      4.   Prior to granting any special use, the City Council may stipulate
certain conditions and restrictions, including, but not limited to, those upon
the establishment, location, construction, maintenance, and operation of the
special use as deemed necessary for the protection of the public interest and
to secure compliance with the standards and requirements specified herein, or
as may be from time to time required. In all cases in which special uses are
granted, the City Council shall require such evidence and guarantees as it may
deem necessary as proof that the conditions stipulated in connection therewith
are being, and will be complied with, including, but not limited to, the
acceptance in writing of the owner of the property involved and other
interested parties of the conditions and guarantees set forth within the
ordinance granting the special use. A copy of the ordinance bearing the
acceptance may be recorded in the office of the County Recorder of DuPage
County. The acceptance shall be in approximately the following form:
         The undersigned being the (owner, tenant, contract purchaser, etc.) of
the property legally described in this ordinance (number) do/does hereby accept
and agree to abide by the requirements and guarantees contained and required
within this ordinance, and does hereby acknowledge that the fulfillment of such
conditions and guarantees are essential to the granting and continuation of the
special use allowed herein, and that but for the imposition of these
requirements and guarantees the special use would not have been granted. The
undersigned do/does further certify and agree that such conditions and
guarantees shall equally bind and be effective against any/all successor/
successors to the interest of the undersigned. The commitment herein made shall
run with the land and shall be enforceable by the City of Darien in a court of
law or equity in addition to any and all other remedies available to the City
to secure compliance with the conditions and guarantees agreed to herein.
      5.   No application for a special use which has been denied wholly or in
part by the City Council shall be resubmitted for a period of one year from the
date of said order of denial, except on the grounds of substantial new evidence
or proof of changed conditions found to be valid by the City Council who shall
in such case refer the application to the Plan Commission for a new hearing
pursuant to proper legal notice.
   (G)   Standards: No special use shall be recommended to the City Council by
the Plan Commission, nor approved by the City Council, unless findings of fact
have been made on those of the following factors which relate to the special
use being sought:
      1.   That the special use is deemed necessary for the public convenience
at the location specified;
      2.   That the establishment, maintenance, or operation of the special use
will not be detrimental to, or endanger the public health, safety, or general
welfare;
      3.   That the special use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment
of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already permitted,
nor substantially diminish and impair property values within the neighborhood;
      4.   That the establishment of the special use will not impede the normal
and orderly development and improvement of the surrounding property for uses
permitted in the district;
      5.   That the exterior architectural design, landscape treatment, and
functional plan of any proposed structure will not be at variation with either
the exterior architectural design, landscape treatment, and functional plan of
the structures already constructed or in the course of construction in the
immediate neighborhood or the character of the applicable district, as to cause
a substantial depreciation in the property values within the neighborhood;
      6.   That adequate utilities, access roads, drainage, and/or necessary
facilities have been or are being provided;
      7.   That adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress
and egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets;
and
      8.   That the special use shall, in all other respects, conform to the
applicable regulations of the district in which it is located, except as such
regulations may, in each instance, be modified by the City Council pursuant to
the recommendations of the Plan Commission and Planning and Development
Committee.
   (H)   Effect Of Granting A Special Use:
      1.   When a special use is granted for a particular lot, in conjunction
with a change in zoning district classification, such lot shall be developed
only for the granted special use, and in accordance with all the conditions
imposed by the ordinance granting the special use unless the special use is
revoked by the City Council in accordance with the procedures for revocation of
subsection (I) of this Section. When a special use is granted, however, with no
change in zoning district classification, the owner can abandon the special use
and introduce any use which was or is then a permitted use in the underlying
zoning district. Such special use may only be revoked using the procedures of
subsection (I) of this Section, except that the special use shall automatically
lapse where another use is introduced and continues uninterruptedly for a one
year period.
   (I)   Revocation Of Special Use Permit:
      1.   A special use permit granted by the City Council shall be subject to
revocation in part or in whole in the manner provided hereinbelow under any of
the following circumstances:
         (a)   Failure to commence construction of the proposed use within one
year from and after the date of the granting of said permit. Construction shall
not be deemed to have commenced unless and until: 1) all necessary permits have
been obtained; 2) the site has been properly graded; 3) all foundations and
footings are in place; and 4) all utilities have been provided for.
         (b)   Failure to carry the construction work forward expeditiously
with adequate forces for a period of twelve (12) months out of any eighteen
(18) month period.
         (c)   Following the issuance of occupancy permits, abandonment, or
other failure to utilize the property for the purposes permitted by the special
use for a period of two (2) months out of any consecutive six (6) month period.
         (d)   Where changed circumstances or experience derived from the
exercise of the special use previously granted indicates that the continuation
of the special use no longer carries out the goals of this Zoning Title.
Provided, however, that any special use so withdrawn may continue to exist to
the extent that it has been utilized and developed subject to the provisions of
Chapter 4 of this Title.
         (e)   Upon written application, the City Council may authorize
extensions of any time period specified hereinabove, at any time prior to the
expiration of such time period but each such extension shall not exceed one
year at a time.
      2.   Upon written application by any person, the Plan Commission or the
City Council, following the happening of any of the conditions specified in
subsection (I)1 of this Section, the Plan Commission shall hold a public
hearing with regard to whether any of the conditions described in subsection
(I)1 of this Section exist and whether on account of such conditions and other
circumstances the special use permit shall be revoked or whether the property
shall be rezoned to another use. Public notice of such hearing shall be given
by newspaper publication and the legal owner of record of the subject property
shall be notified by certified mail, return receipt requested. The hearing
shall otherwise be conducted in accordance with the procedures required by
statute and by Sections 5A-2-2-6 and 5A-2-3 of this Chapter.
      3.   Following such hearing, the Plan Commission shall prepare written
findings of fact and its recommendations: a) regarding the continuation or
revocation of the special use; and b) regarding the rezoning of the property to
another classification. Such findings and recommendations shall be transmitted
forthwith to the Planning and Development Committee for a recommendation, then
to the City Council for final action. The City Council, after receiving such
findings and recommendations, may grant a further extension of the special use
permit, may allow the property to be developed and utilized for the permitted
uses of the underlying zoning classification or may rezone the property.
      4.   In making their determination, the Plan Commission, the Planning and
Development Committee, and the City Council shall consider the effect of
changed conditions, if any, upon the property. Where the property in question
was granted a change in zoning category contemporaneously with its special use
or achieved such a use as part of an annexation agreement, the Plan Commission,
Planning and Development Committee and City Council shall consider whether the
property would have been granted the zoning classification underlying its
special use if it were not for the conditions which were imposed by the special
use or by an annexation agreement, as the case may be. It is the intent of this
provision of this Title to prevent the abandonment of a special use which was
granted contemporaneously with a rezoning of land to a less restrictive
category based upon the promise of development of a well-planned special use
subject to various conditions; and the attempted development of the property
without proper planning controls under a zoning category which would not have
been granted, but for the planning requirements imposed under the special use.
(Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-2-3: PUBLIC HEARINGS AND NOTIFICATION:
   (A)   General Procedures And Information: Public hearings of the
administrative bodies of the City shall be conducted in accordance with the
requirements of the Illinois Compiled Statutes. Information regarding
requirements for public hearings for each administrative function shall be
available at the Department of Community Development of the City. In addition,
materials submitted in conjunction with a public hearing shall be made
available for public inspection at the Department of Community Development.
Issuance of notice of public hearings and pending actions of the administrative
bodies of the City shall be governed by the requirements of the Illinois
Compiled Statutes, except as provided herein.
   (B)   Public Notice:
      1.   Publication: The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall see that notice of
all public hearings is published not more than thirty (30) nor less than
fifteen (15) days before said hearing in one or more newspapers with a general
circulation within the City.
      2.   Adjoining Property Owners: It shall be the responsibility of the
petitioner to submit to the Zoning Enforcement Officer a list of names and
addresses of property owners within two hundred fifty feet (250') of the
property that is the subject of the public hearing, except for simple
variations where owners within one hundred twenty five feet (125') of the
property are notified. It shall be the responsibility of the Director of
Community Development to prepare such notice in writing, and mail or distribute
the notice not more than thirty (30), nor less than fifteen (15) days before
said hearing. For the purposes of determining property owners for notification,
the taxpayer of record as listed with the Township Assessor office shall be
used.
      3.   Public Notice Sign(s): One or more public notice sign, as required
by the Department of Community Development, shall be placed on all properties
that are the subject of a map amendment, special use, variations (except for
simple variations), or annexation request, in compliance with the following:
         (a)   The public notice sign shall be erected at least fifteen (15)
days before the public hearing and remain until final action is taken by the
City Council;
         (b)   Said sign shall be removed within three (3) days of final City
Council action;
         (c)   The sign shall be sized and placed so as to be visible to the
general public as determined by the Zoning Enforcement Officer;
         (d)   Said sign(s) shall be a minimum of eight (8) square feet and a
maximum of thirty two (32) square feet as determined by the Zoning Enforcement
Officer; and
         (e)   The text and construction materials of said sign(s) shall be
approved by the Zoning Enforcement Officer. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-2-4: FEES:
The City Council shall establish by separate ordinance a schedule of fees,
charges, and expenses required for building permits, certificates of occupancy,
variations, special use permits, amendments, planned unit development approvals
and other matters pertaining to this Title.
Until all such required fees have been paid, no application for any of the
above shall be deemed to have been filed and no action shall be taken on such
application. All fees shall be paid to the City Clerk.
In addition to any other fees required by the City's ordinances, whenever the
City determines that the nature of any real estate development is such that the
effective approval or supervision thereof would require review by specialized
experts, the costs incurred by the City with respect thereto shall be the
responsibility of the owner or developer thereof, and payment of all such costs
and fees shall be a condition precedent to approvals, inspections, and the
receipt of any certificate of occupancy with respect to such development. The
costs and services include, but are not limited to: a) plan review by model
code agencies; b) environmental impact review; c) on-site resident engineering
services; d) architectural, landscaping, forestry preservation, or wetland
review services; e) fiscal impact study; and f) market analysis. (Ord. 0-03-00,
4-3-2000)
5A-2-5: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses to
comply with, or who resists enforcement of any provisions of this Title, shall
be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall
be deemed committed on each day that such violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   The owner or tenant of any building, structure, or land and any
architect, builder, constructor, agent or other person who commits,
participates or assists in, or maintains such violation may each be found
guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties herein provided. (Ord. 0-
03-00, 4-3-2000)
CHAPTER 3
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5A-3-1: Purpose
5A-3-1-1: General Objectives
5A-3-1-2: Residential Planned Development Objectives
5A-3-1-3: Business Or Commercial Planned Development Objectives
5A-3-1-4: Office And Industrial Planned Development Objectives
5A-3-2: Procedure
5A-3-2-1: Step 1, Preapplication Conference Procedure
5A-3-2-2: Step 2, Preliminary Plan Procedure
5A-3-2-3: Step 3, Final Plan Procedure
5A-3-2-4: Recording Final Plat; Issuance Of Building Permits
5A-3-2-5: Changes In The Development
5A-3-2-6: Effect Of Granting A PUD
5A-3-2-7: Revocation Of PUD Special Use
5A-3-2-8: Certificates Of Occupancy
5A-3-2-9: Conditions And Guarantees
5A-3-3: Standards
5A-3-3-1: Size
5A-3-3-2: Compatibility
5A-3-3-3: Unique Features
5A-3-3-4: Residential Density
5A-3-3-5: Parking Requirements
5A-3-3-6: Subdivision Controls
5A-3-3-7: Traffic Control; Public And Private Streets
5A-3-3-8: Open Space
5A-3-3-9: Yards And Spaces Between Buildings
5A-3-3-10: Exceptions From Zoning District Standards
5A-3-3-11: Signs
5A-3-3-12: Performance Standards
5A-3-3-13: Landscape Standards
5A-3-3-14: Utilities
5A-3-3-15: Ownership
5A-3-4: Required Documentation
5A-3-4-1: Preapplication Stage
5A-3-4-2: Conceptual Plan Stage
5A-3-4-3: Preliminary Plan Stage
5A-3-4-4: Final Plan Stage
5A-3-1: PURPOSE:
The primary purpose of a planned unit development special use is to stimulate
the development of balanced neighborhoods containing physical, economic and
social assets difficult to achieve through the traditional separation of use
and density zones. This is accomplished by allowing the developer the freedom
necessary to protect natural resources and to protect the investment of both
the City and the project. Based upon the submission of an acceptable site plan
and other required documents, permission may be granted for the construction of
a planned unit development in which more than one principal building may be
constructed on a single subdivided lot or an unsubdivided parcel of land.
Subject to such standards and limitations as are contained within this Title,
the City Council in the ordinance granting the special use may allow
modifications of the provisions of any municipal ordinance which would allow
the proper implementation of the development plan. These modifications may
include changes in the Zoning Title which if requested singly would be
variations to be considered by the Plan Commission as a recommendatory body.
When requested as part of an overall development plan of a planned unit
development, such changes may be granted subject to the procedures contained
within this Chapter, rather than those which would govern requests for
individual variations.
The Plan Commission and City Council may require any reasonable condition or
design consideration which will promote proper development of benefit to the
community. It is not intended that the Council automatically grant the maximum
use exceptions or density increases in the case of each planned unit
development. The City Council shall grant only such increase or use latitude
which is consistent with the benefit accruing to the City as a result of the
planned unit development. As a condition for approval, each planned unit
development must be compatible with the character and objectives of the zoning
district or districts within which it is located. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000; amd.
Ord. O-01-25, 1-20-2025)
5A-3-1-1: GENERAL OBJECTIVES:
The granting of such flexibility as provided for in the special use approval
for a planned unit development shall be dependent upon the ability of the land
as utilized by the developer to meet such general objectives of this Title set
forth below as shall apply to the proposed special use:
   A maximum choice in the types of living environments available to the public
by allowing a development that would not be possible under the strict
application of the other sections of this Title;
   Permanent preservation of common space and recreation areas and facilities;
   A pattern of development to preserve natural vegetation, topographic, and
geologic features;
   A creative approach to the use of land and related physical facilities that
results in better development and design and the construction of aesthetic
amenities;
   An efficient use of the land resulting in more economic networks of
utilities, streets, schools, public grounds and buildings, and other
facilities;
   A land-use scheme which promotes the public health, safety, and welfare;
   Innovations in residential, commercial, and industrial development so that
growing demands of the population may be met by greater variety in type, design
and layout of buildings, and by the conservation and more efficient use of open
space ancillary to said buildings; and
   Promotion, in a direct and specific way, of adopted policies and standards
for development, as they appear from time to time as part of the City's
Official Planning Policies and Official Comprehensive Plan. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-
2000)
5A-3-1-2: RESIDENTIAL PLANNED DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES:
To offer recreational opportunities close to home, to enhance the appearance of
neighborhoods by the conservation of areas of natural beauty, to add to the
sense of spaciousness through the preservation of natural green spaces, to
counteract the effects of urban monotony and congestion in the streets, to
foster environmental and design excellence, to encourage cooperative
relationships between neighbors and participation by all age groups in the use
and care of local open space tracts in new residential subdivisions, to promote
harmonious architecture between adjacent dwellings or institutional buildings,
to encourage the placement of structures in proper relationship to the natural
characteristics of the site, and to provide the opportunity to integrate
housing by types within a unified environmental setting so as to provide a
range of housing options in the community. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-3-1-3: BUSINESS OR COMMERCIAL PLANNED DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES:
To promote the unified development and redevelopment of business or commercial
centers, to ensure adequate off-street parking, to control access points on
thoroughfares, to separate pedestrian and automobile traffic, to aid in
stabilizing property values, to develop centers and districts of size and
location compatible with the market potential, to buffer adjacent residential
areas with landscaped green spaces, to provide well-designed pedestrian
connections between commercial centers and districts and adjacent residential
neighborhoods, to encourage harmonious architecture between adjacent commercial
structures and between residential and commercial structures and to allow for
the placement of more than one commercial building on a single lot. (Ord. 0-03-
00, 4-3-2000)
5A-3-1-4: OFFICE AND INDUSTRIAL PLANNED DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES:
To promote the establishment of industrial parks and office and research
complexes, to permit groups of industrial buildings with integrate design and a
coordinated physical plan, to encourage recreational facilities within
industrial areas, to encourage necessary commercial and business services to
locate near industrial uses; to foster the use of mass transit and para-
transit, and to buffer adjacent residential areas with landscaped green spaces.
(Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-3-2: PROCEDURE:
A planned unit development, if granted, shall be granted as a special use in
accordance with the procedures and standards of this Chapter. The procedures
described herein shall be the exclusive procedures for processing applications
seeking approval of a planned unit development. In the event that a conflict
arises between a provision of this Chapter and another provision of the Zoning
Title, or a provision of any other ordinance of the City, the provisions of
this Chapter shall prevail. Applicants shall comply, however, with all laws of
the State and ordinances of the City except to the extent that such ordinances
have been modified pursuant to this Chapter.
Applications shall be made on forms provided by the City and shall be
accompanied by the required plat documents, detailed plans, drawings and other
information as specified by this Chapter. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-3-2-1: STEP 1, PREAPPLICATION CONFERENCE PROCEDURE:
Prior to the filing of a formal application, the petitioner may, but need not,
request an informal meeting with the Plan Commission to determine whether the
proposed development of the land is in accordance with the City's zoning and
other ordinances, whether a zoning amendment or a modification in existing
ordinances is required, and whether the development will be in conformity with
the planning policies of the City.
Request for such a conference shall be made to the Plan Commission, via the
Zoning Enforcement Officer, who will submit a notice of such request to the
Mayor, the City Council, and the Plan Commission. Two (2) members of the Plan
Commission may participate as ex officio members in this conference. The
preapplication conference is not mandatory and does not require formal
application, but does require the filing of the plans with the Zoning
Enforcement Officer. The information to be submitted for the preapplication
conference shall be as stipulated by Section
5A-3-4-1 of this Chapter. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000; amd. Ord. O-01-25, 1-20-
2025)
5A-3-2-2: STEP 2, PRELIMINARY PLAN PROCEDURE:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of the preliminary plan submission is to obtain
tentative approval and commitment from the City that the developer's plan,
design, and program are acceptable, and that the developer can proceed to
submit final detailed architectural, engineering, surveying, and landscape
plans. The preliminary plan may be submitted in stages only if a conceptual
plan is also submitted and approved. It is at this stage that final
modifications, adjustments, and interpretations are made to the conceptual
plan. A preliminary plan, once approved, may be amended. A request for an
amendment shall be made in accordance with the preliminary plan procedure and
requires a new public hearing.
The preliminary plan is mandatory except that if all the land included in the
application is to be developed at one time, the applicant may elect to proceed
directly to the final plan procedure.
   (B)   Procedure:
      1.   Application Submission: Filing the following materials with the
Department of Community Development:
         (a)   Written application for review, in triplicate, shall be filed
with the Department of Community Development on forms prescribed by the City.
         (b)   A filing fee, the amount of which shall be established by
ordinance of the City Council in light of the complexity of the proposed
project, the number of contemplated hearings, and other Municipal expenses.
         (c)   If the preliminary plan is submitted in stages, fifteen (15)
copies of the conceptual plan and of all other information required in this
Section.
         (d)   Fifteen (15) copies of the preliminary plan and of supporting
data, plans or information required in Section
5A-3-4-3 of this Chapter.
      2.   Staging The Preliminary Plan: The preliminary plan for residential
planned unit developments may be submitted in stages if the total development
area is fifty (50) acres or more. The first phase of the residential
development must encompass at least twenty percent (20%) of the total
residential area, plus all areas to be dedicated for roads, parks, and other
public uses. Preliminary plans for commercial or office-industrial planned unit
developments may be submitted in stages regardless of the size of the total
development, provided that the first phase of the development encompasses all
areas to be dedicated for roads and other public uses. If the applicant elects
to submit the preliminary plan in stages, he must also submit a conceptual plan
for the total area of the planned unit development at the same time that he
submits the preliminary plan information for the first phase of the
development. The conceptual plan and the preliminary plan for the first phase
of the development shall both be presented at the same public hearing.
      3.   Acceptance Of The Application: After all the required documents are
filed with the Zoning Enforcement Officer, a copy of the request shall be
forwarded to the City Clerk. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall review the
application to determine completeness. No application shall be accepted by the
City for processing until all the required documentation has been submitted by
the applicant. If the application is deemed incomplete, the Zoning Enforcement
Officer shall prepare a written report specifying the information and
documentation that must be submitted by the applicant to complete the
application, with a copy of such being forwarded to the City Clerk. The Zoning
Enforcement Officer shall return the application with such written report to
the applicant. If the application is deemed complete by the Zoning Enforcement
Officer, it shall be processed. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall notify the
applicant that the City has accepted the application and shall forthwith,
process and forward the application to the Plan Commission for its information,
and to the Plan Commission for review and public hearing, with a copy of such
application forwarded to the City Council for their information at its next
regular meeting. Any changes in the application made by the applicant, whether
initiated by the applicant or at the request of the City, shall be submitted to
the Plan Commission via the Zoning Enforcement Officer no later than two (2)
weeks prior to the scheduled date of the public hearing. Any change not
submitted by that time may be accepted by the Plan Commission at their
discretion and by majority vote of the Plan Commission.
      4.   City Staff Review: The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall also forward
copies of the preliminary plan and supporting data to the City Engineer for
review and recommendations. The City Council shall instruct other appropriate
City departments and consultants to collaborate with the Plan Commission in
reviewing the preliminary plan for the planned unit development for its
compliance with these regulations and other ordinances of the City. Such
collaboration may include meetings and conferences at which the developer shall
meet the City officials and consultants in order that the Plan Commission may
have, prior to its public hearing, the recommendations of its experts.
      5.   Public Hearing: The Plan Commission shall hold a public hearing
within forty five (45) days from the date the request was forwarded to it. The
general procedures shall be those outlined in Section
5A-2-3 of this Title. At such hearing, two (2) members of the Plan Commission
shall have the right to full participation without a vote. The Zoning
Enforcement Officer shall notify the applicant and the Plan Commission as to
the time and place of the public hearing at which the applicant shall present
the preliminary plan. A public hearing shall not be continued more than once
without the approval of the applicant, and in that case, for not more than
fourteen (14) days. A public hearing may be continued with the approval of the
applicant as many times as deemed necessary.
   6.   Plan Commission's Report: The Plan Commission shall, within sixty (60)
days after the close of the public hearing, unless an extension is requested by
the petitioner and granted by the Plan Commission, submit a written report to
the Planning and Development Committee recommending approval, modification, or
disapproval, and the reasons therefor, or indicate why a recommendation of
approval, modification, or disapproval cannot be rendered to the Planning and
Development Committee, with a copy of such report being sent to the City
Council and the applicant. Provided, however, that if at any time after the
commencement of the public hearing the City Council has required by motion that
the public hearing be closed, and that the Plan Commission submit a written
report containing findings and recommendations no later than sixty (60) days
from the date of the motion, the Plan Commission shall be so required, and
failure to file this report within the sixty (60) day period shall be deemed a
recommendation to deny the application. The Plan Commission shall set forth in
a separate communication to the City Council the findings of fact on which it
based its recommendations and describing how the proposal meets the standards
of Section
5A-3-3 of this Chapter. The Plan Commission may issue a separate report and
recommendations relating to variations to the City Council.
      7.   City Engineer's Report: Within sixty (60) days after the close of
the public hearing, the City Engineer shall submit a written report to the
Planning and Development Committee recommending approval of engineering plans
and specifications contained therein, setting forth the revisions necessary for
approval or recommending disapproval of the engineering plans and
specifications.
      8.   Planning And Development Committee Report: The Planning and
Development Committee, after receipt of required reports, shall forward a
recommendation to the City Council to approve, modify, or disapprove the
preliminary plan or may refer the matter back to the Plan Commission for
further consideration.
      9.   City Council Approval: The City Council, after receipt of the
required reports or, if no reports are received, after the time period allowed
to file such reports has elapsed, and without further public hearing, may
approve, modify or disapprove the preliminary plan or may refer the matter back
to the Plan Commission for further consideration. If the City Council does not
act finally on the preliminary plan submission within a period of ninety (90)
days of the date upon which such application is initially returned to the City
Council from the Plan Commission, the preliminary plan shall be deemed to have
been denied unless an extension is requested by the petitioner and granted by
the City Council. In the case of approval, or approval with modification, the
City Council shall pass an ordinance granting the special use and amending the
Official Zoning Map of the City. Approval of a preliminary plan shall not
constitute approval of the final plan. Rather, it shall be deemed an expression
of approval to the layout submitted on the preliminary plan as a guide to the
preparation of the final plan. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000; amd. Ord. O-01-25, 1-
20-2025)
5A-3-2-3: STEP 3, FINAL PLAN PROCEDURE:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of the final plan is to designate with
particularity the land subdivided into conventional lots as well as the
division of other lands not so subdivided, into common open space and building
sites. The final plan, if approved, must be recorded, and must show the exact
location of facilities.
The final plan shall conform substantially to the preliminary plan as approved
or amended and, if desired by the developer, may be submitted in stages with
each stage reflecting the approved preliminary plan.
   (B)   Procedure:
      1.   Application And Submission: The following materials shall be filed
with the Zoning Enforcement Officer:
         (a)   Written application for review, in triplicate, on forms as
prescribed by the City;
         (b)   A filing fee, the amount of which shall be established by
ordinance of the City Council in light of the complexity of the proposed
project, the number of contemplated hearings and other Municipal expenses; and
         (c)   Fifteen (15) copies of the final plan and of supporting data,
plans, or information as required by Section
5A-3-4-4 of this Chapter which shall show in detail the design, location, and
use of all buildings, facilities, and site improvements, as well as such
additional information as may be required by the Plan Commission, the Plan
Commission, the Planning and Development Committee, the Zoning Enforcement
Officer, the City Engineer, the City Attorney, and the City Council.
      2.   Acceptance Of The Application: The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall
receive the final plan application and review as to completeness, with a copy
being forwarded to the City Clerk. No final plan application shall be accepted
by the City for processing until all the required documentation has been
submitted by the applicant. If the application is deemed incomplete, the Zoning
Enforcement Officer shall prepare a written report specifying the information
and documentation that must be submitted by the applicant to complete the
application, with a copy of such written report being forwarded to the City
Clerk. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall return the application with a copy
of such written report to the applicant. If the application is subsequently
deemed complete, the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall submit it to the City
Council for final consideration. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall notify
the applicant that the City has accepted the final plan application and
documents.
      3.   Review Procedure If No Preliminary Plan Was Submitted: If the
preliminary plan procedure was waived by the City Council, the Zoning
Enforcement Officer shall forward the final plan documents to the City Engineer
for his review and recommendation, to the Plan Commission for its review and a
public hearing and to the Plan Commission for their information, with a copy of
such application forwarded to the City Council for their information at its
next regular meeting. Two (2) members of the Plan Commission shall be entitled
to full participation at such hearing but without the right to vote. The Plan
Commission shall hold a public hearing within forty five (45) days from the
date the final plan documents were forwarded to it. The public hearing shall
follow the general procedures as outlined in Section
5A-2-3 of this Title. Any changes in the application made by the applicant,
whether initiated by the applicant or at the request of the City, shall be
submitted to the Plan Commission via the Zoning Enforcement Officer no later
than two (2) weeks prior to the scheduled date of the public hearing. Any
change not submitted by that time may be accepted by the Plan Commission at
their discretion and by majority vote of the Plan Commission. A public hearing
shall not be continued more than once without the approval of the applicant,
and in that case, for not more than fourteen (14) days. A public hearing may be
continued with the approval of the applicant as many times as deemed necessary.
   Following the public hearing, if a public hearing is required, the Plan
Commission shall, within sixty (60) days after the close of the public hearing,
unless an extension is requested by the petitioner, and granted by the Plan
Commission, submit a written report to the Planning and Development Committee
recommending approval, modification, or disapproval, and the reasons therefor,
or indicate why a recommendation of approval, disapproval, or modification
cannot be rendered to the Planning and Development Committee, with a copy of
such report being sent to the applicant. Provided, however, that if at any time
after the commencement of the public hearing the City Council has required by
motion that the public hearing be closed and that the Plan Commission submit a
written report containing findings and recommendations no later than forty five
(45) days from the date of the motion, the Plan Commission shall be so required
and failure to file this report within the forty five (45) day period shall be
deemed a recommendation to deny the application. The Plan Commission shall set
forth in a separate communication to the City Council the findings of fact on
which it based its recommendations and describing how the proposal meets the
standards of Section
5A-3-3 of this Chapter. The Plan Commission may issue a separate report and
recommendations relating to variations to the City Council.
      4.   Review Procedure Where A Preliminary Plan Was Submitted: When the
preliminary plan procedure has been followed, no further public hearing need be
held and the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall forward a copy of the final plan
and other supporting data required for approval to the City Engineer for review
and recommendation, and to the Plan Commission to determine whether the final
plan conforms substantially to the preliminary plan, as approved. The Plan
Commission must approve or disapprove the final plan within thirty (30) days of
its submission to the City. If the final plan and other supporting data are in
substantial conformity with the preliminary plan, the Plan Commission shall
approve it. If the Plan Commission disapproved the final plan after the
preliminary plan has been approved, it shall state in what respects the final
plan fails to conform to the preliminary plan or with these regulations in its
recommendation to the City Council and provide the applicant with a copy of
such recommendation.
      5.   Review By City Engineer: When the preliminary plan procedure was
waived, the City Engineer shall submit a written report to the City Council
recommending approval, modification, or disapproval, within sixty (60) days
after the close of the public hearing. Where the preliminary plan procedure was
followed, the City Engineer shall approve, modify, or disapprove the final plan
within thirty (30) days of its submission to the City. In either case, if the
City Engineer disapproves of the final plan, the reasons for denial shall be
set forth in a report to the City Council and the applicant shall be provided
with a copy of such report.
      6.   Review By The Planning And Development Committee: The Planning and
Development Committee, after receipt of the required reports, shall forward a
recommendation to the City Council to approve, modify, or disapprove the final
plan.
      7.   City Council Approval: The City Council, after receipt of the
required reports or, if no reports are received, after the time period allowed
to file such reports has elapsed, shall approve, modify, or disapprove the
final plan, within a period of ninety (90) days unless an extension is
requested by the applicant and granted by the City Council. If the City Council
finds that the final plan is not in substantial conformance with the
preliminary plan, the City Council shall inform the applicant with regard to
the specific areas found to be not in compliance and shall order a new public
hearing before the Plan Commission, after which a recommendation shall be made
as to whether such modifications shall be approved or disapproved. If the City
Council approves the final plan, it shall pass an ordinance to that effect.
(Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000; amd. Ord. O-01-25, 1-20-2025)
5A-3-2-4: RECORDING FINAL PLAT; ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS:
If the planned unit development involves the subdivision of land, the ordinance
authorizing construction of the development shall be effective only upon
recording of the final plat with the County Recorder of Deeds. Said plat shall
not exceed thirty inches by thirty six inches (30" x 36"), in compliance with
the DuPage County Recorder's requirements. Building permits are to be issued
only after the final plat has been recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds
and the requirements of all City ordinances governing the issuance of permits
have been met. The City Clerk shall be responsible for the recording of the
final plat. If the planned unit development did not involve the subdivision of
land, the ordinance approving the PUD shall be effective upon its passage,
approval, and publication, as provided by law. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-3-2-5: CHANGES IN THE DEVELOPMENT:
The development project shall be developed only according to the approved
preliminary plan, if any, and final plan and all supporting data.
Changes to the preliminary and/or final plan shall be defined as follows:
   (A)   Major Changes: Changes which substantially alter the concept or intent
of the development, including an increase in density, an increase in the height
of buildings, changes in locations and types of uses of land, changes in the
design of structures where general design criteria or drawings were furnished
as supporting documents to approved preliminary or final plans, reduction of
proposed open space, changes in the development and construction schedule,
changes in road standards, or changes in the final governing agreements,
provisions, or covenants, may be approved only by submission of a new
preliminary and/or final plan and supporting data and following the preliminary
and/or "final plan" procedures, including a new public hearing. All changes to
the "original final plan" shall be recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds
as amendments to the final plan or reflected in the recording of a new
"corrected" final plan.
   (B)   Minor Changes: The City Council may, by ordinance, approve minor
changes in the development which do not substantially change the concept or
intent of the development without the review and recommendation of the Plan
Commission and without a public hearing, but upon review and recommendation of
the Planning and Development Committee. Minor changes shall be any change not
defined as a major change. This provision shall not prohibit the City Council
from requesting the review and recommendations of the Plan Commission.
   (C)   Changes To Completed And Occupied Residential Planned Unit
Developments: Changes such as garages, fences, storage sheds, and patios, which
are not in conflict with subsection (A) of this Section or with the provisions
of the specific ordinance governing the planned unit development in question
and which are permitted under and comply with all the requirements of the
underlying residential zoning classification and do not interfere with storm
water retention and drainage, may be permitted upon site plan approval by the
City Council, upon review and recommendation of the Planning and Development
Committee. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-3-2-6: EFFECT OF GRANTING A PUD:
Premises granted a planned unit development special use by the passage and
approval of an ordinance approving a preliminary plan and/or final plan shall
be limited to development as a planned unit development special use unless and
until such special use is duly revoked by the City Council as provided in
Section
5A-3-2-7 of this Chapter. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-3-2-7: REVOCATION OF PUD SPECIAL USE:
   (A)   Applicability: A planned unit development special use granted by the
City Council shall be subject to revocation in the manner provided hereinbelow
under any of the following circumstances:
      1.   Failure to submit the final plan within one year from the date of
approval of the preliminary plan.
      2.   Failure to commence construction of the proposed use within one year
from and after the date of the filing of the final plan. Construction shall not
be deemed to have commenced unless and until: a) the site has been properly
graded, and b) all utilities have been provided for in the area covered by the
final plan.
      3.   Failure to carry the construction work forward expeditiously with
adequate forces for a period of eighteen (18) months out of any twenty four
(24) month period.
      4.   Following the issuance of occupancy permits, abandonment, or other
failure to utilize the property for the purposes permitted by the planned unit
development special use for a period of two (2) months out of any consecutive
six (6) month period.
      5.   Where changed circumstances or experience derived from the exercise
of the planned unit development special use previously granted indicates that
the continuation of the planned unit development special use no longer carries
out the goals of this Zoning Title. Provided, however, that any special use so
withdrawn may continue to exist to the extent that it has been utilized and
developed subject to the provisions of Chapter 4 of this Title.
      6.   Upon written application, the City Council may authorize extensions
of any time period specified hereinabove, at any time prior to the expiration
of such time period but each such extension shall not exceed one year at a
time.
   (B)   Initiation Of The Revocation Of A PUD:
      1.   Upon written application by any person, the Plan Commission or the
City Council at any time following the expiration of any time period or
authorized extension thereof, as provided hereinabove, or the happening of any
of the conditions specified in subsection (A) of this Section, the Plan
Commission shall hold a public hearing with regard to whether any of the
conditions described in subsection (A) of this Section exist and whether on
account of such conditions and other circumstances the special use permit shall
be revoked or whether the property shall be rezoned to another use. The Plan
Commission, in such an instance, shall follow the same procedure as for
revoking special uses, in subsection
5A-2-2-6(I) of this Title.
      2.   The revocation of a planned unit development special use and the
zoning reclassification of the property may also be initiated by the owner, or
contract purchaser of the premises by so requesting the City Council, who shall
refer the matter to the Plan Commission for its review and public hearing as
provided under subsection
5A-2-2-6(I) of this Title. Such matter shall be reviewed by the Planning and
Development Committee who shall forward a recommendation to the City Council.
(Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-3-2-8: CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
No certificate of occupancy shall be granted for the use of any building or
structure within a planned unit development unless that building or structure
complies with the building code and there is no current delay, as of the date
of application for an occupancy permit, in completing the scheduled land
improvements and amenities as shown on the approved final PUD plan and
supporting data and as specified in the approved final development and
construction schedule of the PUD. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-3-2-9: CONDITIONS AND GUARANTEES:
Prior to the granting of any planned unit development, the Plan Commission, the
Planning and Development Committee, the Zoning Enforcement Officer, the City
Planner, City Attorney or other legal consultant, or the City Engineer may
recommend, and the City Council may stipulate such conditions and restrictions
upon the establishment, location, design, layout, height, density,
construction, maintenance, aesthetics, operation, and other elements of the
development as deemed necessary for the protection of the public interest,
improvement of the development, protection of the adjacent area, and to secure
compliance with the standards specified in Section
5A-3-3 of this Chapter. In all cases in which planned unit developments are
granted, the City Council shall require such evidence and guarantees as it may
deem necessary as proof that the applicant is complying and will comply with
the conditions stipulated. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000; amd. Ord. O-01-25, 1-20-
2025)
5A-3-3: STANDARDS:
No planned unit development shall be authorized unless the City Council shall
find that the following general standards are met. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-3-3-1: SIZE:
Unless unusual conditions are present which allow effective planning upon a
smaller site or as otherwise provided in this Section or in the zoning
districts of the Zoning Title, all planned unit developments shall be required
to contain a minimum of three (3) acres. Provided, however, that within
business districts, the minimum planned unit development sizes shall be:
 
District Minimum PUD Site Area
B-1      40,000 square feet
B-2      2 acres
B-3      6 acres
 
(Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-3-3-2: COMPATIBILITY:
The uses permitted in such development are compatible with the uses immediately
adjacent to the site and are not of such a nature, of such density or so
located as to exercise an undue detrimental influence or effect upon the
surrounding neighborhood. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-3-3-3: UNIQUE FEATURES:
The site plan effectively treats the developmental possibilities of the subject
property, making appropriate provisions for the preservation of streams, wooded
areas, scenic views, flood plain areas, and similar physical features. (Ord. 0-
03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-3-3-4: RESIDENTIAL DENSITY:
   (A)   Residential Densities Within PUD: Residential densities within planned
unit developments shall not exceed the following maximum numbers within each
zoning district:
 
District Gross Residential Density
R-1      2.5 units per gross residential acre
R-2      4.5 units per gross residential acre
R-3      7.0 units per gross residential acre
 
   (B)   Calculation Of Gross Residential Density: The gross residential
density shall be the ratio between the total number of dwelling units and the
gross land area:
      1.   The gross land area shall include the following:
         (a)   Any proposed right of way within the planned unit development;
         (b)   Any land to be contributed for governmental uses;
         (c)   All storm water management, regulatory wetlands, and flood plain
areas; and
         (d)   All land to be used for recreational uses.
      2.   The gross land area shall not include the following:
         (a)   Any right of way or easements for roadways, on the perimeter of
the planned unit development, existing prior to the development of the planned
unit development; and
         (b)   All land to be used for nonresidential uses. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-
2000)
5A-3-3-5: PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
Adequate parking shall be provided as required by Chapter 11 of this Title
unless specifically varied by the City Council after recommendation of the
Planning and Development Committee and the Plan Commission. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-
2000)
5A-3-3-6: SUBDIVISION CONTROLS:
The provisions of the Darien Subdivision Ordinance shall be adhered to, unless
a variation is granted by the City Council after recommendation of the Planning
and Development Committee and the Plan Commission. Such a variation may be
granted as a part of the ordinance authorizing the planned unit development.
(Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-3-3-7: TRAFFIC CONTROL; PUBLIC AND PRIVATE STREETS:
   (A)   Traffic: Adequate provision shall be made to provide ingress and
egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets. The
site will be accessible from public roads which are adequate to carry the
traffic that will be imposed upon them by the proposed development. The streets
and driveways on the site of the proposed development shall be adequate to
serve the uses located in the proposed development. Traffic-control signals
will be provided without expense to the City when the City Council determines
that such signals are required to prevent traffic hazards or congestion in
adjacent streets.
   (B)   Streets, Public And Private: Private streets may be permitted in R-
3 planned unit developments where unique design concepts, site topography, site
dimensions, site area, and/or flood plain areas warrant their use.
   Public or private streets in residential planned unit developments shall
also be in accordance with the following:
      1.   Areas less than five (5) acres, private streets not permitted.
      2.   Reduced width rights of way and/or pavement widths may be permitted
for public streets where site conditions warrant their use.
      3.   Private streets' pavements shall have a minimum width of thirty feet
(30') back-to-back and shall be constructed to City specifications for Class C
construction standard for minor streets including curb and gutter.
      4.   Private streets may not be used for any street other than a minor
street.
      5.   Where common driveways are used to provide access to multiple-
dwelling units, there shall be at least one driveway access to a public or
private street for every forty (40) dwelling units. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-3-3-8: OPEN SPACE:
A minimum of twenty five percent (25%) of the total gross area of a residential
planned unit development shall consist of common open space; no area within
thirty feet (30') of any building or structure, except one used for
recreational purposes, shall be included in the computation of the open space
requirement. This requirement may be partially or totally waived by the City
Council whenever a substantial amount of the land of the planned unit
development is proposed for development as single-family residential units.
(Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-3-3-9: YARDS AND SPACES BETWEEN BUILDINGS:
   (A)   The required yards or setbacks within the interior of the planned unit
development, but not along the periphery of the planned unit development, may
be modified within the ordinance granting the planned unit development. The
required yards or setback as aforesaid may receive modifications of up to fifty
percent (50%) of the standards set forth in the underlying zoning districts and
may be used for parking or other purposes.
   (B)   Buildings of more than twenty four feet (24') in height shall provide
a setback from any property line of not less than equal to the height of such
buildings.
   (C)   No minimum horizontal distance between buildings is established;
provided, however, that good planning standards are followed and that there is
sufficient space between buildings to provide for adequate fire protection.
(Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-3-3-10: EXCEPTIONS FROM ZONING DISTRICT STANDARDS:
The planned unit development may depart from strict conformance with the
required density, dimension, area, zoning district size, height, bulk, use, and
other regulations of the underlying zoning district to the extent specified in
the preliminary and final plans and documents authorizing the development, so
long as the development will not be detrimental to or endanger the public
health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the City. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-
2000)
5A-3-3-11: SIGNS 1 :
All signs in the planned development shall comply with the Darien Sign
Ordinance. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Title 4, Chapter 3 of this Code.
5A-3-3-12: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
All planned business and office and industrial developments shall comply with
the performance standards specified by Chapter 12 of this Title. (Ord. 0-03-00,
4-3-2000)
5A-3-3-13: LANDSCAPE STANDARDS:
All planned unit developments shall comply with the landscaping standards in
Chapter 10 of this Title. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-3-3-14: UTILITIES:
All of the planned unit developments shall provide for underground installation
of utilities (including electricity, telephone and cable) in both public ways
and private extensions thereof. Provisions shall be made for acceptable design
and construction of storm water facilities including grading, gutters, piping,
and treatment of turf to handle storm waters. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-3-3-15: OWNERSHIP:
The site of the planned unit development must be under single ownership or
unified control. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-3-4: REQUIRED DOCUMENTATION:
The development plans and supporting data shall include at least the following
information, unless waived by the City Council or the Plan Commission, if the
furnishing of such specified material is not necessary or applicable to the
type of project proposed. The City Council, Plan Commission, Planning and
Development Committee, and other City departments reviewing PUDs may request
such additional information deemed applicable to the particular development.
(Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000; amd. Ord. O-01-25, 1-20-2025)
5A-3-4-1: PREAPPLICATION STAGE:
   (A)   General Site Information: Data regarding site conditions, land
characteristics, available community facilities and utilities, existing
covenants, and other related information about uses of land within one-half (1/
2) mile of the subject parcel of land.
   (B)   Sketch Plan: A drawing in simple sketch form showing the proposed
location and extent of the land uses, streets, lots, and other features.
   (C)   Legal Description: A complete property survey and legal description of
the site proposed for development.
   (D)   Variations: A list of all the variations from the zoning regulations
and subdivision control regulations of the City, which are sought for the
particular development. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-3-4-2: CONCEPTUAL PLAN STAGE:
The conceptual plan shall be submitted where the preliminary plan will be
submitted in stages in accordance with subsection
5A-3-2-2(B)2 of this Chapter.
   (A)   Conceptual Plan Drawing: A drawing of the development shall be
prepared at a scale that provides for a clear understanding of the way in which
the property is intended to be developed. The drawing shall indicate the
concept of the development with refinements to indicate the overall land use
pattern, general circulation system, open space or park system, and major
features of the development. This stage does not require a detailed site plan
of buildings, roads, walks, etc. The drawing should include:
      1.   Boundary Lines: Boundary lines of the proposed development
(approximated distances).
      2.   Easements: General location and purpose of easements.
      3.   Streets: Streets on and adjacent to the tract.
      4.   Existing And Proposed Land Uses: Types and location of existing and
proposed land uses.
      5.   Map Data: Name of development, name of site planner, north point,
scale, date of preparation, and acreage of site.
   (B)   Site Data: A written explanation of the graphic elements of the
conceptual plan, including:
      1.   Description and quantity of all land uses.
      2.   Projected type, location, densities, and number of dwelling units to
be constructed in each phase of the development.
      3.   Estimated population.
      4.   Description of the development standards and design criteria.
      5.   Description of each type of residential unit proposed.
      6.   Information on existing and proposed sanitary, storm water, and
other utilities on or adjacent to the development.
   (C)   Objectives: A statement of planning objectives to be achieved by the
development. This statement should include a description of the character of
the proposed development and the rationale behind the assumptions and choices
of the developer.
   (D)   Ownership: A statement of present and proposed ownership of all land
within the project.
   (E)   Environment: A preliminary statement identifying existing natural and
environmental resources, including information on:
      1.   Topography.
      2.   Flood plains and surface hydrology.
      3.   Vegetation and natural coverage.
      4.   Soils and subsurface conditions.
      5.   Geology.
      6.   Scenic views and vistas.
   (F)   Traffic Study: A traffic analysis providing information on the
adequacy of the local transportation and thoroughfare system to handle
anticipated traffic volumes generated by the development, on potential traffic
hazards and points of friction caused by the proposed development, and on the
proposed road improvements deemed necessary to service the development, and an
analysis of the adequacy of the internal vehicular circulation pattern.
   (G)   Financial Impact Study: A study documenting the taxes to be generated
by the proposed development and the costs, benefits and impact to various
municipal systems and to other taxing bodies providing services to the
community. This study shall include, but not be limited to, the impact of
development on schools, park and recreation facilities, police protection, fire
protection, street construction and maintenance, and solid waste collection and
disposal.
   (H)   Market Study: An economic feasibility study of the proposed
development, including information on land utilization and marketing potential
showing the need and feasibility of the proposed development.
   (I)   Schedule: A preliminary development schedule indicating the
approximate dates when construction of various stages of the development can be
expected to begin and be completed. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-3-4-3: PRELIMINARY PLAN STAGE:
   (A)   Detailed Plan: A drawing of the development plus three hundred feet
(300') in every direction shall be prepared at a scale of not less than one
inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') and shall show such designations as
proposed streets (public and private), all building heights and uses, common
open space, recreation areas and facilities, parking areas, service areas, and
other facilities to indicate the character of the proposed development. The
submission may be composed of one or more sheets and shall include:
      1.   Boundary Lines: Bearings and distances.
      2.   Easements: Location, width, and purpose of existing and proposed
easements.
      3.   Streets On And Adjacent To The Tract: Location and dimensions,
street names, right-of-way widths, existing or proposed center line elevations,
pavement types, walks, curbs, gutters, culverts, etc.
      4.   Utilities On And Adjacent To The Tract: Location and size of
sanitary, storm and combined sewers; location and size of water mains; location
of gas lines, fire hydrants, electric and telephone lines, and streetlights;
direction and distance to and size of nearest usable water mains and sewers
adjacent to the tract.
      5.   Ground Elevations On The Tract: At two foot (2') contour intervals;
spot elevations at all breaks in grades, along all drainage channels or swales
and at selected points not more than one hundred feet (100') apart in all
directions (refer to USGS Datum in compiling data).
      6.   Subsurface Conditions On The Tract (If Required By The City
Engineer): Location and results of tests made to generally ascertain subsurface
soil, rock and ground water depth and results of soil percolation tests if
individual sewage disposal systems are proposed.
      7.   Other Conditions On The Tract: Watercourses, flood plains, marshes,
rock outcrops, wooded areas, isolated preservable trees with trunks one foot
(1') or more in diameter, houses, barns, accessory buildings, and other
significant features.
      8.   Other Conditions On Adjacent Land: Approximate direction and
gradient of slope, including any embankments or retaining walls; character and
location of major buildings, railroads, power lines, towers and other
nonresidential land uses or adverse influences; owners of adjacent unplatted
land, for adjacent platted land refer to subdivision plat by name, and
approximate percent build-up, typical lot size and dwelling type.
      9.   Land Uses: Existing land uses and zoning on and adjacent to the
tract. Location, dimensions, and acreage of proposed land uses including
single-family residential, multi-family residential, business and industrial
uses, open spaces and school sites.
      10.   Proposed Public Improvements: Highway or other major improvements
planned by public authorities for future construction on or near the tract.
      11.   Landscape Plans: Preliminary plans for plant materials, earth
sculpturing, berming, aesthetic features, sidewalks and pedestrian access and
circulation.
      12.   Structures: General location, purpose and height, in feet or
stories, of each building, other than single-family residences on individually
platted lots.
      13.   Map Data: Name of development, name and address of the owner,
applicant, engineer, land surveyor and site planned, north point, scale, date
of preparation, and acreage of site.
      14.   Miscellaneous: Such additional information as may be required by
the Plan Commission, the Planning and Development Committee, the Zoning
Enforcement Officer, the City Planner, the City Engineer or the City Council.
   (B)   Objectives: A statement of planning objectives to be achieved by the
development. This statement should include a description of the character of
the proposed development and the rationale behind the assumptions and choices
of the developer.
   (C)   Ownership: Proof of present and proposed ownership of all land within
the project, including present tract designation according to official records
of the County Recorder of Deeds.
   (D)   Schedule: Development schedule, indicating:
      1.   Stages in which project will be built with emphasis on area,
density, use and public facilities such as open space, roadways and water,
sewer and storm sewer lines to be developed with each stage. Overall design of
each stage shall be shown on the plan and through supporting graphic material.
      2.   Approximate dates for beginning and completion of each stage.
      3.   If different land use types are to be included within the
development, the use schedule must include the mix of uses to be built in each
stage.
   (E)   Covenants: Proposed agreements, provisions or covenants which will
govern the use, maintenance and continued protection of the development and any
of its common open space.
   (F)   Density: Information on the density of residential uses, including the
number of dwelling units per acre, the number of dwelling units by type, the
number of buildings by type, and the number of bedrooms in each building and
dwelling unit type, as well as information on the type and amount of ancillary
and nonresidential uses, including the amount of common open space.
   (G)   Service Facilities: Information on all service facilities and off-
street parking facilities.
   (H)   Architectural Plans: Preliminary architectural plans, front elevations
and renderings for all primary and accessory buildings shall be submitted to
show the style of the development, the design of the building and the number,
size and type of dwelling units, floor area of building types and total ground
coverage of buildings.
   (I)   Preliminary Engineering Plans: To indicate that the proposed
development can be serviced for:
      1.   Roads, including classification, width of right of way, width of
pavement, and typical construction details.
      2.   Sanitary sewers.
      3.   Storm drainage.
      4.   Water supply system.
      5.   Lighting program.
      6.   Sidewalks, paths and cycle trails.
   (J)   Traffic Study, Financial Impact Study And Market Study: At the request
of the Plan Commission, the Planning and Development Committee, or City
Council, the applicant may be requested to prepare a traffic study, a financial
impact study and a market study as required in subsections
5A-3-4-2(F), (G) and (H) of this Chapter whenever such studies were waived at
the conceptual plan stage, where no conceptual plan submission was required or
where changed conditions are deemed to warrant the submission of these
documents. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000; amd. Ord. O-01-25, 1-20-2025)
5A-3-4-4: FINAL PLAN STAGE:
   (A)   Final Detailed Plan: A final plat suitable for recording with the
County Recorder of Deeds, not to exceed thirty inches by thirty six inches (30"
x 36"), shall be prepared. The final plat shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Title under which the proposed development is to be recorded.
      2.   An accurate legal description of the entire area for which final
plat approval is sought, and total acreage included.
      3.   A subdivision plat of all subdivided lands in the same form and
meeting all the requirements of a normal subdivision plat, including, but not
limited to, the following:
         (a)   Dimensions of the lots into which the property is proposed to be
subdivided;
         (b)   Plans for sidewalks or pedestrian access and circulation;
         (c)   Location, dimensions and acreage of proposed land uses including
single-family residential, multi-family residential, business and industrial
areas, open spaces and school sites; and
         (d)   Location and dimension of proposed streets, easements and storm
water control areas, including water detention, retention and flow and land to
be dedicated for public use.
      4.   An accurate legal description of each separate unsubdivided area,
including common open space.
      5.   Designation with particularity the uses of the land and the exact
location of all buildings and structures to be constructed.
      6.   Certificates, seals, and signatures required for the dedication of
lands and recording the documents.
      7.   Tabulation of unsubdivided area, including land area, number of
buildings, and number of dwelling units per acre.
      8.   Date, scale, north point, and date of preparation.
   (B)   Common Open Space Documents: All common open space shall be either
conveyed to a municipal or public corporation, conveyed to a not-for-profit
corporation or entity established of which the owners and residents of the
development are the shareholders, or retained by the developer with legally
binding guarantees, in a form approved by the City Attorney, that the common
open space will be permanently preserved as open space. All land conveyed to a
not-for-profit corporation or like entity shall be subject to the right of said
corporation to impose a legally enforceable lien for maintenance and
improvement of the common open space and shall bear an irrevocable provision in
its bylaws allowing but not requiring the City to undertake any needed
maintenance or improvement and to impose a lien to guarantee repayment.
   (C)   Public Facilities: All public facilities and improvements made
necessary as a result of the development shall be either constructed in advance
of the approval of the final plan or a document of security shall be posted to
guarantee construction of the required improvements. Such document of security
in the form of an irrevocable letter of credit, a subdividers bond or other
document, each approved as to form and substance by the City Attorney, shall be
payable to the City and shall be sufficient to cover the full cost of
improvements plus an additional percentage to be set by the City Council or the
City Engineer in an amount sufficient to guarantee that in spite of inflation
and other increased costs, the amount of the document of security shall be
sufficient to allow all required improvements to be installed, in the event
that such installation must be made under the document of security.
   (D)   Final Engineering Plans: Detailed plans shall be submitted for the
design, construction or installation of site amenities; including buildings,
landscaping, lakes, sewer, water, storm water and flood water control, street
facilities, and other site improvements, including specifications.
   (E)   Final Development And Construction Schedule: A final construction
schedule shall be submitted for that portion of the development for which
approval is being requested showing timetables for the dedication and
construction of public facilities and amenities, including, but not limited to,
roads and sidewalks, sewer and water lines and recreational and open space
facilities.
   (F)   Design Schedule: A listing of the area, lot width, yard, height and
bulk requirements applicable to the planned unit development.
   (G)   Covenants: Final agreements, provisions or covenants which will govern
the use, maintenance and continued protection of the development shall be
recorded at the same time as the final development plan.
   (H)   Miscellaneous: A detailed plan and other supporting data as was
stipulated in the preliminary plan stage, Section
5A-3-4-3 of this Chapter, if the preliminary plan stage was bypassed by the
applicant and if such documentation is deemed necessary by the Plan Commission
for its review, as well as other information and data the Plan Commission may
require for full and complete consideration of the planned unit development.
(Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
CHAPTER 4
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES
SECTION:
5A-4-1: Statement Of Purpose
5A-4-2: Authority To Continue
5A-4-3: Restrictions
5A-4-3-1: Repairs And Alterations Of Nonconforming Buildings And Structures
5A-4-3-2: Restoration Of Damaged Nonconforming Buildings Or Structures
5A-4-3-3: Expansion Of Nonconforming Uses
5A-4-3-4: Change In Use
5A-4-3-5: Relocation Of Buildings Or Structures
5A-4-3-6: Discontinuance Of Nonconforming Uses
5A-4-1: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
This Title establishes separate districts, each of which is an appropriate area
for the location of the uses which are permitted in that district. It is
necessary and consistent with the establishment of those districts that those
nonconforming buildings, structures, and uses which substantially and adversely
affect the orderly development and taxable value of other property in the
district not be permitted to continue without restriction.
The purpose of this Chapter is to provide for the regulation of nonconforming
buildings, structures, and uses and to specify those circumstances and
conditions under which those nonconforming buildings, structures, and uses
shall be permitted to continue. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-4-2: AUTHORITY TO CONTINUE:
Any nonconforming building, structure or use which existed lawfully at the time
of the effective date hereof, and which remains nonconforming, and any such
building, structure, or use which shall become nonconforming upon the adoption
of these zoning regulations, or of any subsequent amendment thereto, may be
continued in accordance with the regulations which follow.
No building, structure, or use which was not lawfully existing at the time of
the effective date hereof which does not conform to the requirements of this
Title shall become or be made lawful solely by reason of the adoption of these
regulations; and to the extent that, and in any manner that, said unlawful
building, structure, or use is in conflict with the requirements of this Title,
said building, structure, or use remains unlawful hereunder. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-
3-2000)
5A-4-3: RESTRICTIONS:
5A-4-3-1: REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS OF NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
   (A)   Nonconforming Use In A Nonconforming Building Or Structure: Ordinary
repairs and alterations may be made to a nonconforming building or structure,
all or substantially all of which is designed or intended for a use not
permitted in the district in which it is located, except alterations which
increase the bulk of the building or structure, unless they are required by law
or are necessary to make the building or structure and the use thereof conform
to the regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (B)   Conforming Use In A Nonconforming Building, Or Structure: Repairs and
alterations may be made to a nonconforming building or structure, including
those which increase the bulk of the building, all or substantially all of
which is designed or intended for a use permitted in the district in which it
is located, and which is so used, provided said repairs or alterations conform
to the regulations of the district in which said building or structure is
located. Except that, additions may be made to existing nonconforming
residential structures, including accessory structures, provided the addition
extends no further than the existing nonconforming front, side, or rear yard
for the lot.
   (C)   Safety Of The Building: Nothing in this Title shall prevent the
strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any portion of a building or
structure declared unsafe by the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
   (D)   Reconstruction, Repairing, And Rebuilding Of A Nonconforming Building
Or Structure: Nothing in this Title shall prevent the reconstruction,
repairing, or rebuilding of a nonconforming building, structure, or part
thereof existing at the effective date hereof, rendered necessary by wear and
tear, deterioration, or depreciation, provided the cost of such work shall not
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the fair-market value of such building or
structure at the time such work is done, nor prevent compliance with the
provisions of the building code relative to the maintenance of buildings or
structures. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-4-3-2: RESTORATION OF DAMAGED NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES:
A nonconforming building or structure which is destroyed or damaged by fire,
collapse, explosion, or other casualty or act of God to the extent that the
cost of restoration to the condition in which it was before the occurrence
shall exceed fifty percent (50%) of the fair-market value of the building or
structure at the time of destruction or damage shall not be restored unless
said building or structure, and the use thereof, shall conform to all of the
regulations of the district in which it is located.
In the event such damage or destruction is less than fifty percent (50%) of the
fair-market value of the building or structure, no repairs or reconstruction
shall be made unless such restoration is started within six (6) months from the
date of partial destruction, restoration proceeds and does not cease for any
period of sixty (60) days and completion is accomplished within twenty four
(24) months from the date of partial destruction.
Where a building or structure may not be rebuilt as provided above, it shall be
removed and the area cleared within sixty (60) days after the date at which
demolition shall be the required disposition. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-4-3-3: EXPANSION OF NONCONFORMING USES:
   (A)   Nonconforming Use In A Conforming Building Substantially Designed Or
Intended For A Nonconforming Use: The nonconforming use of part of a building
or structure, all or substantially all of which building and structure is
designed or intended for a use not permitted in the district in which it is
located, may be extended throughout the building or structure in which said use
is presently located, but no changes or structural alterations which increase
the bulk of the building or structure shall be made unless such changes or
structural alterations conform to all the regulations of the district in which
the building is located.
   (B)   Nonconforming Use In A Conforming Building Substantially Designed Or
Intended For A Conforming Use: The nonconforming use of part of a building or
structure, all or substantially all of which building or structure is designed
or intended for a use permitted in the district in which it is located, shall
not be expanded or extended into any other portion of such building or
structure, nor changed to any other nonconforming use.
   (C)   Nonconforming Use (Not In Connection With A Building Or Structure):
Except as otherwise provided by case law, a nonconforming use of land, not
involving a building or structure, or in connection with which any building or
structure thereon is incidental or accessory to the principal use of the land,
shall not be expanded or extended beyond the area it occupies. (Ord. 0-03-00,
4-3-2000)
5A-4-3-4: CHANGE IN USE:
   (A)   Nonconforming Use In A Building Or Structure Designed Or Intended For
A Nonconforming Use: An existing nonconforming use of a structure or building,
all or substantially all of which is designed or intended for a use not
permitted in the district in which it is located, may be changed to another
nonconforming use of a similar or more restricted classification, provided that
the change is accomplished in accordance with subsections
5A-4-3-1(A) and
5A-4-3-3(A) of this Chapter.
   (B)   Nonconforming Use In A Building Or Structure Designed Or Intended For
A Conforming Use: No nonconforming use of a building or structure, all or
substantially all of which is designed or intended for a use permitted in the
district in which it is located, shall be changed to another nonconforming use.
   (C)   Nonconforming Use (Not In Connection With A Building Or Structure):
Except as otherwise provided by case law, a nonconforming use of land not
involving a building or structure, or in connection with which any building or
structure thereon is incidental or accessory to the principal use of the land,
shall not be changed to any other use except to a use permitted in the district
in which the land is located.
   (D)   Nonconforming Use Changed To More Restrictive Nonconforming Or
Conforming Use: Whenever a nonconforming use of a building or structure has
been changed to a more restricted use or to a conforming use, such use shall
not thereafter be changed to a less restricted use. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-4-3-5: RELOCATION OF BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES:
No building or structure shall be moved in whole or in part to any other
location on the same or any other lot unless every portion of such building or
structure which is moved, and the use thereof, is made to conform to all of the
regulations of the district in which it is to be located. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-
2000)
5A-4-3-6: DISCONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING USES:
A nonconforming use of a building, structure, or premises which has been
discontinued shall not thereafter be returned to such nonconforming use, and
any subsequent use of the building, structure or land shall conform to the use
regulations of the district in which such building, structure or land is
located. A nonconforming use shall be considered abandoned or discontinued:
   (A)   When the intent of the owner to discontinue the use is apparent; or
   (B)   When the characteristic equipment and the furnishings of the
nonconforming use have been removed and have not been replaced by similar
equipment within one year; or
   (C)   When the building, structure, or premises are left vacant for a
continuous period of six (6) months; or
   (D)   When the use has been replaced by a conforming use. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-
3-2000)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL PROVISIONS AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5A-5-1: Interpretation
5A-5-2: Separability
5A-5-3: Scope Of Regulations
5A-5-4: Rules And Construction Of Language
5A-5-5: Minimum Lot Size And Access Requirements
5A-5-6: Allowable Uses Of Land, Buildings Or Structures
5A-5-7: Yard Requirements
5A-5-7-1: General Requirements
5A-5-7-2: Vision Clearance At Intersections
5A-5-7-3: Permitted Obstructions In Required Yards
5A-5-7-4: Corner Lot Yard Requirements
5A-5-7-5: Encroachment Into Required Yards
5A-5-8: Fence Regulations
5A-5-8-1: General Regulations And Provisions
5A-5-8-2: District Regulations
5A-5-8-3: Required Fences
5A-5-9: Accessory Buildings, Structures, And Uses
5A-5-9-1: Establishment
5A-5-9-2: Location And Yard Regulations Of Accessory Buildings, Structures, And
Uses Of Land
5A-5-9-3: Height Of Accessory Structures
5A-5-9-4: Accessory Buildings, Structures, And Uses
5A-5-9-5: Permitted Percentage Of Rear Yard Occupied By Accessory Structures
5A-5-9-6: Bulk Regulations For Accessory Buildings And Structures
5A-5-9-7: Satellite Earth Station Receiving Antennas
5A-5-9-8: Solar Energy Systems, Building-Mounted
5A-5-10: Performance Standards
5A-5-11: Recreational Vehicle, Trailers And Snow Plow Regulations
5A-5-12: Height Limitations
5A-5-13: Home Occupation Regulations
5A-5-13-1: Location
5A-5-13-2: Permitted Uses
5A-5-13-3: Regulations
5A-5-13-4: Prohibited Uses And Activities
5A-5-14: Off Street Parking And Loading
5A-5-15: Storage Containers And Dumpsters
5A-5-16: Short-Term Rentals Prohibited
5A-5-17: Electric Vehicle Charging Stations
5A-5-1: INTERPRETATION:
   (A)   Minimum Standards: In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this title shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the
promotion of the public health, safety, morals, comfort, convenience, and
general welfare.
   (B)   Governing Section: Where the conditions imposed by any provision of
this title upon the use of land or buildings, upon the bulk of buildings, or
upon lot area and yard requirements, are either more restrictive or less
restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any other provision of this
title or of any other law, ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation of any
kind, the regulations which are more restrictive or which impose higher
standards or requirements shall govern.
   (C)   Effect On Private Agreements: The provisions of this title shall
prevail over any covenant, easement, or other private agreement which purports
to limit or authorize the use of property in a manner inconsistent with this
title. Provided, however, that if the Corporate Authorities know of the
existence of a private covenant, easement, or other agreement which if enforced
would cause the property to be nonconforming, the Corporate Authorities shall
consider such private agreement in a determination as to whether a proposed use
for the property complies with the provisions of this title. The provisions of
this title shall not, however, prevent any party from attempting to enforce any
covenant, easement, or private agreement to which he is a party or a
beneficiary. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-5-2: SEPARABILITY:
The several provisions of this title are separable, as follows:
   (A)   Invalid Provision: If any court of competent jurisdiction shall
adjudge any provision of this title to be invalid, such judgment shall not
affect any other provisions of this title not specifically included in said
judgment.
   (B)   Invalid Application: If any court of competent jurisdiction shall
adjudge invalid the application of any provision of this title to a particular
property, building, or structure, such judgment shall not affect the
application of said provision to any other property, building, or structure not
specifically included in said judgment. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-5-3: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
   (A)   From and after the effective date hereof, the use of all land and
every building erected, altered with respect to height or area, added to, or
relocated, and every use within a building, or use accessory thereto, in the
City, shall be in conformity with the provisions of this Title and any
amendment hereto, which are applicable to the zoning districts in which such
buildings, structures, or uses shall be located. Any existing building or
structure and any use of properties not in conformity with the regulations
herein prescribed shall be regarded as nonconforming properties or uses.
   (B)   However, where a building permit for a building or structure has been
issued in accordance with law prior to the effective date hereof, or any
amendment hereto, and provided that construction was begun before the effective
date hereof or any amendment hereto, and completion is accomplished within
eighteen (18) months of the effective date hereof, or any amendment hereto,
said building or structure may be completed in accordance with the approved
plans on the basis of which the building permit had been issued, and further,
may upon completion be occupied under a certificate of occupancy by the use for
which originally designated, subject thereafter to the provisions of Chapter 4
of this Title.
   (C)   No building, structure, or use not lawfully existing at the time of
the effective date hereof, shall become or be made lawful unless such building,
structure, or use shall be allowable under the terms of this Title; and to the
extent that, and in any manner that said unlawful building, structure, or use
is in conflict with the requirements of this Title, said building, structure,
or use remains unlawful hereunder. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-5-4: RULES AND CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE:
In the construction of this Title, the rules of language contained herein shall
be observed and applied, except when the context clearly indicates otherwise.
   (A)   The particular shall control the general.
   (B)   In case of any difference of meaning or implication between the text
of this Title and any caption or illustration, the text shall control.
   (C)   The word "shall" is always mandatory and not discretionary. The word
"may" is permissive.
   (D)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and the
future the present; words used in the singular number shall include the plural,
and the plural the singular, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary;
and the masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter.
   (E)   Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, where a regulation
involves two (2) or more items, conditions, provisions, or events connected by
the conjunction "and", "or", "either-or", the conjunction shall be interpreted
as follows:
      1.   "And" indicates that all the connected items, conditions,
provisions, or events do or shall apply.
      2.   "Or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions, or
events shall apply either singly or in combination.
      3.   "Either-or" indicates that the connected items, conditions,
provisions, or events shall apply either singly or in combination.
   (F)   All measured distances or standards shall be to the nearest integer;
if a fraction is one-half (1/2) or less, the integer next below shall be taken.
   (G)   All words and terms as set forth in Chapter 13 of this Title, wherever
they occur in this Title shall be interpreted as therein defined. Any words or
terms not listed shall be construed in their general accepted meanings as
defined in the most recent publication of Webster's Dictionary. (Ord. 0-03-00,
4-3-2000)
5A-5-5: MINIMUM LOT SIZE AND ACCESS REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Every lot created subsequent to the effective date hereof or any
amendment hereto shall meet the minimum lot size requirements of the district
within which it is located. In any zoning district, only one principal
building, structure, or use, along with permitted accessory uses, buildings or
structures, may be established on any lot. Construction upon any lot which is
of record on the effective date hereof or any amendment hereto which is
nonconforming as to the minimum lot size requirement of the zoning district in
which it is located shall be governed by Illinois law relating to the duty of
the Municipality to issue building permits upon lots of record which do not
comply with minimum current subdivision standards.
   (B)   Each lot must be on a public street, except that with the approval of
the City Council a lot may be allowed on a private street within a planned unit
development.
   (C)   The area of all lots shall be determined after first excluding all
public and private rights of way.
   (D)   Lot widths shall conform to the district requirements as found
elsewhere in this Title. The minimum length of a front lot line, however, for
interior lots measured along the public right of way shall be forty feet (40').
In addition, all lot lines not considered a rear or side lot line as herein
defined, and approximately parallel to the rear lot line shall be considered a
front lot line and yards shall be in accordance with the provisions set forth
within the respective zoning districts.
   (E)   The front of a house, as indicated by the location of the front door
and architectural features, shall face the front lot line with a front yard
setback between the front of a house and front lot line.
   (F)   Flag lots, as herein defined, are prohibited. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-5-6: ALLOWABLE USES OF LAND, BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES:
   (A)   The following uses of land, buildings, or structures are allowed in
the districts indicated hereinafter under the conditions specified in this
Title:
      1.   Permitted uses lawfully established and existing prior to the
effective date hereof if they remain permitted uses in the underlying zoning
district as established in this Title.
      2.   Permitted uses lawfully established and existing prior to the
effective date hereof which are special uses in the underlying zoning district
as established in this Title, thereby become nonconforming uses unless allowed
as special uses in accordance with the provisions of Section
5A-2-2-6 of this Title.
      3.   Special uses lawfully established and existing prior to the
effective date hereof if they remain special uses in the underlying zoning
district as established in this Title; provided, that the conditions imposed
upon the granting of the original special use shall remain in effect.
      4.   Special uses lawfully established and existing prior to the
effective date hereof which are permitted uses in the underlying zoning
district as established in this Title; provided, that any conditions imposed by
ordinance upon the granting of the original special use shall remain in effect.
      5.   Permitted uses as designated in this Title and established after the
effective date hereof.
      6.   Special uses as designated in this Title and established after the
effective date thereof, allowed in accordance with the provisions of Section
5A-2-2-6 of this Title or Chapter 3 of this Title.
      7.   Uses lawfully established and existing prior to the effective date
hereof, rendered nonconforming by the provisions herein, shall be subject to
the regulations of Chapter 4 of this Title. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-5-7: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
5A-5-7-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Yard requirements shall be as set forth under each zoning district for
all buildings, structures, and uses.
   (B)   All required yards shall be unobstructed from the ground level to the
sky, unless regulated by Section
5A-5-7-3 of this Chapter or by the parking provisions within each zoning
district. All accessory buildings, structures, or uses shall comply with the
yard requirements of the principal buildings, structures, or uses unless
otherwise specified in Section
5A-5-9 of this Chapter.
   (C)   Any public roadway which exists by dedication, easement, or
prescription and which is located on the lot shall not be included as part of
the required yard.
   (D)   The minimum yard space required for one structure shall not again be
considered as yard space for another adjoining structure.
   (E)   No yards on, or hereafter provided, for a building existing on the
effective date hereof shall subsequently be reduced below, or further reduced
below if already less than the minimum yard requirements of this title for
equivalent new construction, except in compliance with subsection
5A-4-3-1(B) of this title.
   (F)   The maintenance of yards, courts, and other open spaces and the
minimum lot area legally required for a building shall be a continuing
obligation of the owner of such building or of the property on which it is
located, as long as the building is in existence. Furthermore, no legally
required yards, courts, or other open space, or minimum lot area allocated to
any building, shall by virtue or change of ownership or for any other reason,
be used to satisfy yard, court, or other open space or minimum lot or site area
requirements for any other building.
   (G)   All yards, courts, and other open spaces allocated to a building or
group of buildings shall be located on the same lots as such building or group
of buildings. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-5-7-2: VISION CLEARANCE AT INTERSECTIONS:
Fences, walls, parapets, shrubs, bushes, and other plants and obstructions of a
height greater than thirty inches (30") above the adjoining street grade shall
not be permitted in the areas within triangles formed by extending each of the
nearest curb lines of the two (2) adjoining intersecting streets to two (2)
points, each up to but not exceeding fifty feet (50') distant from the point of
intersection of said curb lines and a line connecting said two (2) points. If a
permanent building exists within the triangle thus formed, the lengths of the
legs shall be reduced to the extent of a forty five degree (45°) line across
the outer building corner. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-5-7-3: PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS IN REQUIRED YARDS:
The following shall not be considered to be obstructions when located in the
required yards specified: (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
   (A)   In all required yards:
      1.   Overhanging eaves and gutters, awnings, canopies, balconies,
chimneys, bay windows, sills, cornices, and solar collector panels mounted on
the wall of a building may project three feet (3') or less into the yard; (Ord.
0-03-18, 2-5-2018)
      2.   Steps and sidewalks which are necessary for access to a permitted
building or for access to a lot from a street provided they are not located
within an easement and are set back a minimum of five feet (5') from any side
or rear lot line;
      3.   Driveways as regulated in the applicable zoning district regulations
and in section
5A-11-3 of this title;
      4.   Flagpoles, fountains, sculptures, plant boxes, and other similar
ornamental objects;
      5.   Fences as regulated in section
5A-5-8 of this chapter and in the applicable zoning district regulations; and
      6.   Open, accessory parking spaces and parking facilities as permitted
under chapter 11 of this title, and in the applicable zoning district
regulations.
   (B)   In required front yards: Open, unenclosed patios/terraces, which do
not have a roof, awning, or canopy, and which are not over four feet (4') above
the grade of the adjoining ground, projecting five feet (5') or less into the
required yard. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
   (C)   In required rear yards:
      1.   Private swimming pools in accordance with the provisions of sections
5A-5-8 and
5A-5-9 of this chapter and of other applicable ordinances of the City.
      2.   Open, unenclosed patio/terraces and decks which do not have a roof,
awning or canopy and which are not over four feet (4') above the grade of the
adjoining ground may extend not more than ten feet (10') into the required
yard.
      3.   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses as permitted in section
5A-5-9 of this chapter.
      4.   Air conditioning units projecting five feet (5') or less into the
required rear yard.
      5.   Arbors and trellises.
      6.   Generators may be located not more than five feet (5') from the
exterior wall of the principal structure and are required to maintain a minimum
clearance of ten feet (10') from any window or door opening. Generators are
required to be screened by either landscaping or a fence type structure.
   (D)   In required side yards: Arbors and trellises.
   (E)   In required interior side yards: Generators may be located not more
than five feet (5') from the exterior wall of the principal structure and are
required to maintain a minimum clearance of ten feet (10') from any window or
door opening. Generators are required to be screened by either landscaping or a
fence type structure. (Ord. 0-35-13, 12-2-2013)
5A-5-7-4: CORNER LOT YARD REQUIREMENTS:
On corner lots, if the lot meets the minimum lot depth from both street
frontages, the developer of the parcel of land may determine, at time of final
plat of subdivision approval or building permit approval in the case of already
platted lots, which street side of the lot shall be considered the front yard
and which shall be considered the corner side yard, and must comply with all
setback requirements. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-5-7-5: ENCROACHMENT INTO REQUIRED YARDS:
It shall not be deemed a violation of the yard requirements of this title if a
building or structure encroaches upon a required yard under both of the
following conditions:
   (A)   The building or structure does not encroach into more than one
required yard; and
   (B)   The encroachment does not exceed three inches (3").
The zoning enforcement officer shall review each case of such encroachment to
determine compliance with this section. If the encroachment does not comply
with these conditions, the variation procedure must be followed. (Ord. 0-03-00,
4-3-2000)
5A-5-8: FENCE REGULATIONS:
5A-5-8-1: GENERAL REGULATIONS AND PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Prior to the installation of a fence, grade level cannot be changed
without the approval of the zoning enforcement officer.
   (B)   The fence shall be positioned so that the finished side faces away
from the lot on which it is erected. Fences that appear essentially the same
from either side (i.e., fences that appear identical from either side except
for the posts which are the same material and color as the rest of the fence),
fences designed so that both sides can be considered a finished face, and
fences that alternate the finished side panels in both directions, may be
approved by the zoning enforcement officer.
   (C)   Fences that enclose a yard or yards shall have a gate allowing ingress
and egress to the enclosed yard. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-5-8-2: DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Residence Districts:
      1.   Fences are prohibited in the front yard. Fences which are
nonconforming to this requirement shall be governed by chapter 4 of this title.
      2.   Fences may be erected and maintained in the corner side yard setback
to a maximum height of six feet (6'), provided that the fence does not extend
beyond the front yard line. However, in any corner side yard abutting Route 83,
Cass Avenue, Plainfield Road and 75th Street, fences shall be permitted to be
erected and maintained to a maximum height of eight feet (8'), provided the
fence does not extend beyond the front yard line.
      3.   Fences shall be permitted in interior side yards, provided that the
fence does not extend beyond the front yard line and does not exceed the height
of six feet (6').
      4.   Fences shall be permitted in the rear yard to a height not to exceed
six feet (6'), provided that the height of the fence shall not exceed four feet
(4') in that part of the actual rear yard abutting a front yard of another lot.
      5.   In any rear yard extending along Route 83, Cass Avenue, Plainfield
Road and 75th Street, fences shall be permitted not to exceed eight feet (8').
In any rear yard extending along other major arterial, minor arterial, and
collector streets, fences shall be permitted not to exceed six feet (6').
      6.   Fence type structures such as privacy screens and open patio
enclosures not located in required yards shall not be considered as fences but
as an architectural detail of the residence. Location, height, type of
material, and construction technique shall be approved by the zoning
enforcement officer.
      7.   Fence type structures such as landscape fences that are three feet
(3') or less in height, and which are less than twenty five feet (25') in
length, and not used as a means of confinement, shall not be considered as
fences. Location, height, type of material and construction technique shall be
approved by the zoning enforcement officer. (Ord. 0-14-13, 5-6-2013)
   (B)   Business Districts: These are the regulations that apply to business
uses except where the fences are required for buffering or screening purposes
under section
5A-5-8-3 of this chapter.
      1.   In rear and interior side yards fences shall be permitted; provided,
that the fence does not extend beyond the front line, or in the case of corner
lots, not beyond the street side line, of the building or structure and does
not exceed the height of six feet (6').
      2.   In front yards, corner side yards or in that part of the rear yard
between the corner side lot line and the corner side yard line, open fences
shall be permitted to a height not to exceed four feet (4').
   (C)   Office-Industrial Districts: These are the regulations that apply to
office-industrial uses except where the fences are required for buffering or
screening purposes under section
5A-5-8-3 of this chapter.
      1.   In rear and interior side yards, fences shall be permitted;
provided, that the fence does not extend beyond the front line, or in the case
of corner lots, not beyond the street side line, of the building or structure
and does not exceed a height of eight feet (8').
      2.   In front yards, corner side yards or in that part of the rear yard
between the corner side lot line and the corner side yard line, open fences
shall be permitted to a height not to exceed four feet (4'). (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-
3-2000)
5A-5-8-3: REQUIRED FENCES:
   (A)   Business And Office-Industrial Districts:
      1.   Residential Adjacency: Where a lot in the business or office-
industrial district adjoins a lot in a residential district, a fence is
required as provided in the applicable zoning district regulations.
      2.   Outside Storage: Where outside storage is allowed, a fence is
required as provided in the applicable zoning district regulations.
   (B)   Swimming Pools: All swimming pools containing twenty four inches (24")
or more of water in depth at any point, shall be completely enclosed by a fence
surrounding either the rear yard or the immediate pool area. Such enclosure,
including gates therein, must be at least four feet (4') above the adjoining
grade therein, must be at least four feet (4') to the edge of the swimming
pool. All gates must be self-closing and self-latching with latches placed at
least four feet (4') above grade. Provided, however, that aboveground pools
need not be enclosed by such fence if the following conditions are met:
      1.   The walls of the pool measure a minimum of three feet (3') in height
from every point of the adjoining ground where the pool is located, and the
pool has a fence or other barrier that is permanently attached around the
entire pool as part of the structure of the pool and which is thirty inches
(30") or more in height above the top of the pool deck and rim.
      2.   The entrance or stairway of the pool is a latched or hinged
facility, which locks at the top.
      3.   There are no openings or gaps between the fence and pool larger than
four inches (4") except doors and gates. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-5-9: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES, AND USES:
5A-5-9-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
Accessory uses shall be compatible with the principal use and shall not be
established prior to the establishment of the principal use. No accessory
building or structure shall be constructed on any lot prior to the start of
construction of the principal building or structure to which it is accessory.
Unless expressly excluded, accessory uses, buildings, and structures are
allowed in every zoning district under this title. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-5-9-2: LOCATION AND YARD REGULATIONS OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES, AND
USES OF LAND:
Accessory buildings, structures, or uses may be attached to, established
within, or detached from the principal building, structure, or use of land.
   (A)   Yard Requirements For Accessory Structures:
      1.   Attached Accessory Structures: Attached accessory structures must
meet the setback requirements of the applicable district or be in compliance
with section
5A-5-7-3 of this chapter.
      2.   Detached Accessory Structures:
         (a)   Front Yard, Corner Side Yard, And Interior Side Yard: No
detached accessory building or structure, shall be erected, altered, or moved
to a location within any part of a front yard, corner side yard, or interior
side yard, except as may be permitted under chapter 11 of this title, section
5A-5-7-3 of this chapter, and the applicable zoning district regulations.
         (b)   Rear Yard:
            (1)   No detached accessory building or structure shall be erected,
altered or moved to a location within that part of a rear yard located within
five feet (5') of the rear lot line, or to those portions of the side lot lines
abutting such rear yard, or within any platted easement.
            (2)   In residential districts, no detached accessory building or
structure shall be erected, altered, or moved to a location within the actual
rear yard closer than fifteen feet (15') from the corner side lot line.
   (B)   Required Separation From The Principal Building: No detached accessory
building or structure, shall be erected, altered or moved to a location within
five feet (5'), measured from vertical wall to vertical wall, of the nearest
wall of a principal building. Accessory buildings or structures built more than
five feet (5'), but less than ten feet (10'), from the principal building shall
be constructed so that all exterior walls within ten feet (10') of the
principal building be of one hour fire rated construction. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-
2000)
5A-5-9-3: HEIGHT OF ACCESSORY STRUCTURES:
All accessory buildings, structures, or uses shall comply with the height
limitations of the zoning district in which located; provided, that the
accessory building, structure, or use does not exceed the height of the
principal building, structure, or use, except as provided in section
5A-5-12 of this chapter. In residence districts, the maximum height of a hip or
gable roofed garage (3/12 minimum roof pitch) shall be fourteen feet (14'), and
for all other garages, accessory buildings, structures, or uses, the maximum
height shall be twelve feet (12'); and further provided, that in no case shall
an accessory building, structure, or use exceed the height of the principal
building, structure, or use. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-5-9-4: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES, AND USES:
   (A)   For Dwelling Purposes: In residence districts, no accessory building
or structure shall be used for dwelling purposes. In the business and office-
industrial districts, accessory buildings and structures may be used for
dwelling purposes as may be allowed in those districts. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-
2000)
   (B)   Accessory Buildings, Structures, And Uses Not Specifically Listed Or
Normally Allowed: All accessory buildings, structures, and uses not
specifically or normally allowed shall be prohibited unless approved by the
City Council after a public hearing before the Plan Commission.
   (C)   Solar Energy Systems, Building-Mounted: Solar energy systems,
building- mounted are allowed as an accessory use in all zoning districts.
(Ord. 0-03-18, 2-5-2018; amd. Ord. O-01-25, 1-20-2025)
5A-5-9-5: PERMITTED PERCENTAGE OF REAR YARD OCCUPIED BY ACCESSORY STRUCTURES:
The sum of all accessory buildings or structures which are not attached to the
principal building or structure shall not occupy more than thirty percent (30%)
of the actual rear yard. An individual accessory building or structure which is
not attached to the principal building or structure shall not exceed an area of
eight hundred (800) square feet except as allowed in chapter 11 of this title,
and the applicable zoning district regulations. In-ground swimming pools may
exceed eight hundred (800) square feet so long as the sum of the areas of the
pool and all other accessory buildings, structures and impervious surfaces not
attached to the principal building or structure does not exceed thirty percent
(30%) of the actual rear yard. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-5-9-6: BULK REGULATIONS FOR ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
All accessory buildings or structures shall comply with the bulk regulations of
the zoning district in which located. The area of the accessory building or
structure shall be included in the computation of the lot coverage or floor
area ratio, as appropriate. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-5-9-7: SATELLITE EARTH STATION RECEIVING ANTENNAS:
Satellite earth station receiving antennas are permitted in residential
districts under the following conditions:
   (A)   Maximum diameter of twelve feet (12').
   (B)   Not permitted in front yards or side yards.
   (C)   Maximum height when freestanding is sixteen feet (16').
   (D)   Maximum height when mounted on a residential structure or an accessory
building no greater than ten feet (10') above the building eave and located at
the rear of the structure.
   (E)   Mesh type antenna materials are preferable.
   (F)   Colors are to be subdued earth tones - matte finish grays, browns, and
black.
In all other zoning districts, satellite earth station receiving antennas are
permitted and regulated as accessory structures. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-5-9-8: SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS, BUILDING-MOUNTED:
Solar energy systems, building-mounted are subject to the following standards:
   (A)   Building-integrated solar collectors may be located anywhere on a
building.
   (B)   Solar panel collectors mounted on a roof are subject to the following
standards:
      1.   Panels may not extend out sideways from the roof.
      2.   Panels mounted on portions of the roof facing the street, must be
flush-mounted.
      3.   Panels mounted on portions of the roof not facing the street, may be
flush-mounted or not flush-mounted.
      4.   Panels on a peaked roof that are not flush-mounted may not exceed
the height of the peak of the roof.
      5.   Panels on a flat roof that are not flush-mounted must have a parapet
or screening wall between the panels and the adjacent street and said parapet
or screening wall must be at least as high as the panels. (Ord. 0-03-18, 2-5-
2018)
5A-5-10: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   (A)   All public and private utility facilities shall conform to the
performance standards of chapter 12 of this title.
   (B)   All uses in business districts and office-industrial districts shall
conform to the performance standards of chapter 12 of this title. (Ord. 0-03-
00, 4-3-2000)
5A-5-11: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE, TRAILERS AND SNOW PLOW REGULATIONS:
The storage and parking of trailers, tow dollies, snow plow blades, boats, boat
trailers, mobile homes, travel trailers, campers, off road vehicles, personal
watercraft and other recreational vehicles as defined by the Illinois Vehicle
Code, herein referred to as recreational vehicles, shall be as follows:
   (A)   Storage And Parking Of Recreational Vehicles: One recreational
vehicle, or one boat on a trailer, or one trailer with up to two (2) personal
recreational vehicles, one trailer, one tow dolly or one snow plow blade, when
not attached to a vehicle, may be stored outside an enclosed structure within a
rear or interior side yard only, subject to the following:
      1.   Recreational vehicles may be parked within a front or corner side
yard, on a driveway, under the following conditions:
         (a)   For loading, unloading, cleaning and related activities for a
period not exceeding three (3) consecutive days.
         (b)   For temporary occupancy by guests as permitted by this section.
      2.   The recreational vehicle shall not be used or occupied for living,
housekeeping or business purposes, except for use by temporary guests not to
exceed a period of fourteen (14) consecutive days and for not more than two (2)
occurrences in a calendar year.
      3.   The recreational vehicle shall not exceed thirty five feet (35') in
length and eight feet (8') in width except that boats shall not exceed twenty
five feet (25') in length and ten feet (10') in height, exclusive of antennas,
masts, or other accessories.
      4.   All such recreational equipment must be kept in good repair and
carry a valid current year's license and/or registration.
      5.   All recreational vehicles shall be parked or stored on an asphalt,
concrete or other hard surface material which meets the setback requirement for
driveways set forth in subsection
5A-11-3(A)4 of this title. (Ord. 0-20-14, 7-7-2014)
5A-5-12: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
   (A)   Height limitations shall be as set forth under each zoning district
for all buildings, structures, and uses of land.
   (B)   Chimneys, ornamental towers, scenery lofts, monuments, cupolas, domes,
spires, steeples, false mansards, parapet walls, and similar structures and
necessary mechanical appurtenances not visible from the public right-of-way or
screened may be erected to their customary height, regardless of the height
limitations of the zoning district in which they are located.
   (C)   Transmitting towers and radio towers may extend to a height of sixty
feet (60'), including antennas, measured from the average elevation of the
finished lot grade at the front of the building, or structure, regardless of
the height limitations of the zoning district in which they are located. Said
towers shall meet the yard requirements of the zoning district in which they
are located. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-5-13: HOME OCCUPATION REGULATIONS:
5A-5-13-1: LOCATION:
Any customary home occupation may be conducted in any dwelling unit in any
zoning district in which dwelling units are permitted. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-5-13-2: PERMITTED USES:
No home occupation shall be conducted unless it is operated for one of the
following general uses:
   Limited production or manufacturing of goods such as artists' studios and
pottery making and ceramics establishments.
   Offices, business or professional.
   Personal services, including, but not limited to, babysitting services,
barbershops, beauty shops, custom dressmaking establishments, photography
studios, repair shops, tailor shops, and massage therapy. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-
2000; amd. Ord. 0-02-02, 1-21-2002)
5A-5-13-3: REGULATIONS:
The following regulations shall govern the operation of home occupation:
   (A)   The home occupation shall be accessory, incidental, and secondary to
the principal use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes.
   (B)   The home occupation shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling
unit and accessory buildings.
   (C)   Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the gross floor area of the
dwelling unit and accessory buildings shall be occupied by the home occupation.
   (D)   One person who is not a resident of the dwelling unit may be employed
permitted to assist in the home occupation.
   (E)   Supplies and equipment shall be delivered by United States letter
carrier mail, parcel delivery service or private passenger automobile or van.
   (F)   There is no display or activity that will indicate from the exterior
of the dwelling that it is being used in whole or in part for any use other
than a dwelling. No storage or display of materials, goods, supplies, or
equipment related to the operation of a home occupation shall be visible from
the outside of any structure located on the premises.
   (G)   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation which
creates noise audible from the outside, dust, vibration, smoke, glare, fumes,
odors, fire hazards, electrical interference, or any other hazard or nuisance
to any greater or more frequent extent than that usually expected in an average
residential unit in the district in question under normal circumstances wherein
no home occupation exists.
   (H)   No use shall require internal or external alterations or involve
construction features or the use of electrical or mechanical equipment that
would change the fire rating of the structure or the fire district in which the
structure is located. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-5-13-4: PROHIBITED USES AND ACTIVITIES:
The following uses shall be examples of prohibited home occupations:
   Animal hospitals and kennels.
   Auto repair shops.
   Eating and drinking establishments.
   Funeral parlors.
   General retail.
   Medical and dental clinics. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-5-14: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
In all residence, business, office and industrial districts, off street parking
and loading facilities shall be provided as required or permitted in chapter 11
of this title. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-5-15: STORAGE CONTAINERS AND DUMPSTERS:
In all residential, business, office and industrial districts, the temporary
storage and/or placement of storage containers and dumpsters shall comply with
the following regulations:
   (A)   Temporary storage and/or placement of storage containers and dumpsters
in conjunction with construction activity requiring a building permit:
      1.   A total of two (2) storage containers and/or dumpsters are permitted
at any one time, subject to the issuance of a valid building permit for the
site, for the duration of the building permit.
   (B)   Temporary storage and/or placement of storage containers and dumpsters
not in conjunction with construction activity or activities not requiring a
building permit:
      1.   A total of two (2) storage containers and/or dumpsters are permitted
at any one time.
      2.   Storage containers and/or dumpsters must be located within the front
or rear yards and cannot be located within an interior or corner side yard.
      3.   Storage containers and/or dumpsters must be located on a hard
surface.
      4.   Storage containers and/or dumpsters may be placed on the property
for two (2) periods each calendar year, not to exceed thirty (30) consecutive
days and not for more than sixty (60) days per calendar year.
      5.   Storage containers and/or dumpsters are required to be removed once
the thirty (30) consecutive day period has ended. (Ord. 0-50-07, 12-3-2007)
5A-5-16: SHORT-TERM RENTALS PROHIBITED:
   (A)   Short-Term Rentals are prohibited in the City of Darien.
   (B)   The offering of a Short-Term Rental in the City of Darien is
prohibited.
   (C)   The prohibition on short-term rental units shall not apply when the
immediately preceding owner of a property maintains possession of the dwelling
unit after closing on a real estate transaction for the sale thereof and leases
said property back from the successor owner for a period of time pursuant to a
written agreement.
   (D)   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses to
comply with, or who resists enforcement of any provisions of this section,
shall be subject to a fine of not less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
nor more than two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day that such violation
occurs or continues.
   (E)   The owner or tenant of any building, structure, or land, and any other
person, who commits, participates assists in, or maintains such violation may
each be found guilty of a separate offense and be subject to the penalties
herein provided. (Ord. O-11-23, 6-19-2023; amd. Ord. O-15-25, 4-7-2025)
5A-5-17: ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATIONS:
   (A)   General:
      1.   Electric vehicle charging stations and infrastructure shall be
permitted as accessory uses to lawfully established principal uses in all
zoning districts.
      2.   If the primary use of a parcel is the retail charging of electric
vehicle batteries, then the use shall be considered as an "Automobile Service
Station" for zoning purposes.
   (B)   Parking and Quantity Requirements:
      1.   Electric vehicle charging stations may be counted toward satisfying
minimum off-street parking space requirements. A parking space served by
electric vehicle supply equipment shall count as at least one and a half (1.5)
standard automobile parking spaces.
      2.   Public electric vehicle charging stations must be reserved for
parking and charging electric vehicles.
      3.   No minimum number of charging station spaces is required.
         (a)   New Construction.
            (1)   Residential: All new single-family and multi-family dwellings
with garages be constructed to provide 220-240 volt/40-amp outlet on a
dedicated circuit in close proximity to designated vehicle parking to
accommodate the potential future hardwire installation of a Level 2 charging
station.
            (2)   Nonresidential: All new and expanded nonresidential
development parking areas provide the electrical capacity necessary to
accommodate the future hardwire installation of Level 2 charging stations. It
is recommended that a typical parking lot (e.g., 1,000 or less parking spaces)
have a minimum ratio of two percent (2%) of the total parking spaces prepared
for such stations.
      4.   Pavement Marking: Pavement markings are required. Any and all
pavement markings shall be the color white or yellow and shall match the color
used for all other parking stalls. No additional stencil will be permitted.
      5.   Accessible Charging Stations: Any location where electric vehicle
charging stations are installed shall be required to have at least one (1)
parking space equipped with an accessible charging station. Accessible charging
stations should be located in close proximity to the building or facility
entrance and shall be connected to a barrier free accessible route of travel to
and from the building or facility. Accessible charging stations shall be
maintained in compliance with the Americans with Disability Acts of 1990, 42
U.S.C. § 12101 and all applicable state and federal laws.
   (C)   Equipment Location and Design Criteria:
      1.   Electric charging station equipment may not be located in a place
that obstructs or interferes with a driver's view of approaching, merging, or
intersecting traffic in and around the right-of-way.
      2.   The charging station equipment must not impede pedestrian, bicycle,
or vehicular traffic, or be located within the required area of the legal
parking space, vehicle overhang, or associated circulation aisles as required
by this chapter.
      3.   Adequate protection of charging station equipment from vehicles must
be provided, such as curbing, bollards, or wheel stops. All equipment shall be
maintained by the property owner where it is located and the owner shall
provide warranty and services for the charging stations and infrastructure for
the duration of their useful life.
      4.   Charging station outlets and connector devices shall be no less than
thirty-six inches (36") and no higher than forty-eight inches (48") from the
ground or pavement surface where mounted, and shall contain a retraction device
and/or a place to hang permanent cords and connectors a sufficient and safe
distance above the ground or pavement surface. Equipment shall be mounted on
pedestals and located as to not impede pedestrian travel or create trip hazards
on sidewalks.
      5.   Lighting: Where charging station equipment is installed, adequate
site lighting shall be provided in accordance with City ordinances and
regulations.
      6.   Data Collection: To allow for maintenance and notification, the City
shall require the owners of public charging stations to provide information on
the charging station's geographic location, date of installation, equipment
type and model, and owner contact information to the Building Department.
   (D)   Landscaping:
      1.   Where landscaping is possible, landscaping shall be provided around
electric vehicle supply equipment.
   (E)   Signage:
      1.   Public electric vehicle charging stations must be posted with
signage indicating that the space is reserved for electric vehicle "charging"
purposes only. The signage must also have a phone number or other contact
information to report when the equipment is not functioning properly, and any
time limits on use, tow away, or fine provisions. Information identifying
voltage, amperage levels, usage fees, or safety information must be posted.
      2.   On-site advertising is allowed on an electric vehicle charging
station only when it is an integral part of the electric vehicle charging
station. All advertising is limited to the promotion of goods, services, and
products of the owner and tenants on-site where the electric vehicle charging
station is located. The on-site advertising may consist of static images that
change no faster than once very ten (10) seconds or a continuous video on an
LED screen. No advertisement shall play or emit any sound. Except as indicated
in this section, the size of any on-site advertising signage shall not exceed
four (4) square feet in gross surface area for each exposed face, nor exceed an
aggregate gross surface area of six (6) square feet. On-site advertising
signage on a video screen shall not exceed an aggregate gross surface area of
one-fourth (0.25) square feet. (Ord. O-24-23, 11-20-2023)
CHAPTER 6
ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
5A-6-1: Districts Established
5A-6-2: Maps
5A-6-3: Zoning Of Annexed Land
5A-6-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
For the purposes of this Title, the City is hereby divided and classified into
the following zoning districts:
   (A)   Residence Districts:
      R-1 Single-Family Residence District
      R-2 Single-Family Residence District
      R-3 Multi-Family Residence District
   (B)   Business Districts:
      B-1 Neighborhood Convenience Shopping District
      B-2 Community Shopping Center District
      B-3 General Business District
      M-U Mixed-Use District
   (C)   Office And Industrial Districts:
      O Office District
      OR&I Office, Research and Light Industrial District
      I-1 General Industrial District
(Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000; amd. Ord. O-13-24, 6-17-2024)
5A-6-2: MAPS:
   (A)   Such land and the district classification thereof shall be as shown on
the map designated as the "City of Darien Zoning District Map", dated and
signed by the Clerk of the City upon adoption. This Zoning District Map and all
notations, dimensions, references, and symbols shown thereon pertaining to such
districts shall be as much a part of this Title as if fully described herein
and shall be filed as part of this Title by the Clerk of the City. The Zoning
Enforcement Officer shall, no later than March 31 of each year, publish a
Zoning District Map clearly showing the existing zoning uses, dimensions,
restrictions, regulations, and classifications of the City for the preceding
calendar year. Provided, however, that if in any calendar year there are no
changes in zoning uses, dimensions, restrictions, regulations and
classifications, no map shall be published for such calendar year. An updated
copy of the Zoning District Map showing all amendments thereto shall be kept at
all times on file with the City Clerk. Said Map shall be available for public
inspection in the office of the City Clerk and any later alterations of this
Map adopted by amendment as provided in this Title shall be similarly dated,
filed, and made available for public reference.
   (B)   The following rules shall apply with respect to the boundaries of the
various districts as shown on the Zoning District Map:
      1.   District boundary lines are the center lines of highways, streets,
alleys, easements, railroad rights of way, toll roads, expressways, and rivers;
or section, division of section, tract and lot lines; or such lines extended,
unless otherwise indicated.
      2.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines of
highways, streets, alleys, easements, toll roads, or expressways shall be
construed to follow such center lines.
      3.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines.
      4.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following City limits shall be
construed as following City limits.
      5.   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed
to be the established center line of the right of way or if no center line is
established, the boundary shall be interpreted to be midway between the right-
of-way lines.
      6.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines of
streams, rivers, canals, lakes, or other bodies of water shall be construed to
follow such center lines, and in the event of change in the center line, shall
be construed as moving with the center line. The center line shall be
interpreted as being midway between the shorelines.
      7.   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in subsections (B)1 through (B)6 of this Section shall be so
construed.
      8.   Whenever any street, alley, or other public way is vacated by
official action of the City Council, or whenever such area is franchised for
building purposes, the zoning district line adjoining each side of such street,
alley, or other public way and all areas so involved shall then and henceforth
be subject to all regulations of the extended districts.
      9.   Boundaries indicated as dividing a lot or tract shall be construed
as being located as shown on the Zoning District Map.
      10.   Distances not specifically indicated on the Zoning District Map
shall be determined by the scale of the Map. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-6-3: ZONING OF ANNEXED LAND:
Whenever any territory is hereafter annexed to the City, in any manner
whatsoever, such territory, upon annexation, shall be classified or zoned under
this Title as an R-1 District, except as may be provided for by a preannexation
agreement or an annexation agreement accompanying a zoning recommendation, all
as provided for by law. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
CHAPTER 7
RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
5A-7-1: R-1 Single-Family Residence District
5A-7-1-1: Intent
5A-7-1-2: Permitted Uses
5A-7-1-3: Special Uses
5A-7-1-4: Required Conditions
5A-7-1-5: Area, Width And Depth Requirements
5A-7-1-6: Yard Requirements
5A-7-1-7: Height Limitations, Bulk Regulations
5A-7-1-8: Minimum Floor Area
5A-7-2: R-2 Single-Family Residence District
5A-7-2-1: Intent
5A-7-2-2: Permitted Uses
5A-7-2-3: Special Uses
5A-7-2-4: Required Conditions
5A-7-2-5: Area, Width And Depth Requirements
5A-7-2-6: Yard Requirements
5A-7-2-7: Height Limitations, Bulk Regulations
5A-7-2-8: Minimum Floor Area
5A-7-3: R-3 Multi-Family Residence District
5A-7-3-1: Intent
5A-7-3-2: Permitted Uses
5A-7-3-3: Special Uses
5A-7-3-4: Required Conditions
5A-7-3-5: Area, Width And Lot Requirements
5A-7-3-6: Yard Requirements
5A-7-3-7: Height Limitations, Bulk Regulations
5A-7-3-8: Minimum Floor Area
5A-7-1: R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT:
5A-7-1-1: INTENT:
The R-1 District is intended to provide single-family areas and protect such
areas from the encroachment of incompatible uses.
No R-1 District shall be established by any new regulation unless the proposed
district area, by itself or in conjunction with any contiguous territory which
either lies within the City and is already zoned R-1 or which lies within an
adjacent municipality and is in a similar zoning classification, is at least
five (5) acres. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-7-1-2: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure or land shall be used and no building or structure shall
be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or designed for
other than one of the following uses:
   (A)   Single-family detached dwellings.
   (B)   Public, denominational, or private schools, limited to elementary,
junior or high schools, without boarding.
   (C)   Parks, playgrounds, and forest preserves when publicly owned and
operated.
   (D)   Accessory uses and buildings to the above permitted uses.
   (E)   Home occupations. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-7-1-3: SPECIAL USES:
   (A)   The following uses may be permitted in specific situations in
accordance with the procedures outlined in Section
5A-2-2-6 of this Title:
      1.   Civic buildings and governmental uses.
      2.   Planned unit developments in accordance with the requirements of
Chapter 3 of this Title.
      3.   Public and private utility facilities.
      4.   Religious institutions, including, but not limited to, churches,
rectories, seminaries, convents, and monasteries, including dormitories and
other accessory uses required for operation.
      5.   Swimming, tennis, racquet, and other athletic club facilities.
      6.   Golf courses, not including commercially operated driving ranges or
miniature golf courses.
      7.   Nursery schools, preschools, and daycare centers.
      8.   Privately owned parks and playgrounds.
      9.   Single-family residences subject to the conditions imposed herein
and any other conditions required by the special circumstances of the
application may be granted special uses to allow their conversion through
remodeling to accommodate one of the following businesses: medical, dental,
real estate, insurance, attorney, architect, engineer, optometrist, or
accountant offices, beauty parlors, barbershops, or animal clinics where
animals are housed only during treatment and not for custodial care.
         (a)   Applicability: Special uses authorized under this Section may
only be granted to single-family residences on lots at least fifty feet (50')
in width, which have addresses on Plainfield Road, Cass Avenue, or Route 83,
and which in addition also abut for at least fifty feet (50'):
            (1)   A lot zoned B-1 or B-2;
            (2)   A lot containing a lawful commercial nonconforming use; or
            (3)   A lot granted the special use authorized in this subsection.
   (B)   Application: The application for the special use shall contain
preliminary plans, prepared by a person with professional expertise, for the
manner in which the single-family residence will be remodeled and shall
describe the compatibility of the proposed use with nearby uses. The exterior
dimension of the existing single-family residence (footprint) shall not be
altered and a copy of a plat of survey prepared by a licensed land surveyor
showing the dimensions of the existing structure shall also be submitted with
the application for the special use.
   (C)   Compliance With Approved Plans And Building Codes: If the special use
is granted, the final remodeling of the property shall proceed in substantial
conformity with the preliminary plans as approved by the City Council. The
structure granted such special use shall be required to comply with the
building codes adopted by the City with respect to the appropriate use
category.
   (D)   Amendments To Approved Plans: Minor modifications to approved plans
may be approved by the Zoning Enforcement Officer. Any substantial
modifications to the interior or the exterior of the structure not approved in
the ordinance granting the special use shall require an amendment to the
special use by the City Council. Such amendment may only be granted by the City
Council after a public hearing before the Plan Commission and recommendation of
the Planning and Development Committee.
   (E)   Parking: The parking requirements for a special use granted under this
Section shall be those required under other provisions of the ordinances of the
City for the particular business for which special use is granted. No parking,
however, shall be allowed within the required front yard or within five feet
(5') of the lot lines of the rear or side yards of the property. Unless
specifically waived in the ordinance granting the special use, the rear yard
and side yards of the property shall be completely fenced with a solid fence
having a minimum height of four feet (4').
   (F)   Storm Water Management: The storm water management requirements for
the subject property may be specified at the time of the granting of the
special use or may be required prior to the issuance of the building permits.
Such storm water management requirements shall be developed based upon the
ordinances of the City, the drainage laws of the State and sound engineering
practices directed towards the development of the property in a manner not to
cause unreasonable flooding problems upon adjacent properties.
   (G)   Signage: A single-family residence granted the special use herein will
be permitted to have only one sign. This sign shall be placed on the front face
of the building and shall not exceed eight (8) square feet in area. The size
and location of the proposed sign shall be submitted as part of the application
and will be approved with the granting of the special use. The sign may be
lighted, but only from the top and/or bottom of the sign and shall otherwise
conform to the ordinances of the City regarding signs, including illumination
and glare standards.
   (H)   Additional Conditions Of Approval: In addition to any specific
conditions mentioned within this Section, the Plan Commission may recommend and
the City Council may require such other conditions as shall allow the business
to operate at the proposed site without interference or adverse effect upon
nearby uses. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-7-1-4: REQUIRED CONDITIONS:
   (A)   All permitted uses other than single-family detached dwelling units
and all special uses shall be subject to the screening and landscaping
provisions of Chapter 10 of this Title.
   (B)   Swimming, tennis, racquet and other athletic clubs and public and
private utilities shall be screened with trees, compact hedge or other natural
fence of at least seventy five percent (75%) opacity all year long along all
property lines. Lighting for operation of the facilities at night and sound
systems shall be directed away from the surrounding properties.
   (C)   All permitted and special uses in the R-1 District shall comply with
the driveway, off-street parking, and loading requirements of Chapter 11 of
this Title. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-7-1-5: AREA, WIDTH AND DEPTH REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum area and width requirements for all buildings and structures in the
R-1 District shall be as follows:
   (A)   Single-Family Detached Dwellings; Nursery Schools, Preschools And
Daycare Centers: Not less than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet per lot,
with a minimum width at the established building setback line of not less than
ninety five feet (95'), and a minimum lot depth of not less than one hundred
twenty five feet (125').
   (B)   Parks, Playgrounds And Forest Preserves; Public And Private Utility
Facilities; Golf Courses; Public, Denominational Or Private Schools; Civic
Buildings And Governmental Uses: None.
   (C)   Religious Institutions, Except Churches; Swimming, Tennis, Racquet And
Other Athletic Clubs: Not less than two (2) acres with a minimum width at the
established building line of not less than three hundred feet (300').
   (D)   Planned Unit Developments: Three (3) acres with a minimum width at the
established building line of not less than three hundred feet (300').
   (E)   Churches: Not less than one acre. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-7-1-6: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum yards required for all buildings and structures in the R-1 District
shall be as follows:
   (A)   Single-family detached dwellings:
      1.   Required Yard Depth:
            Front Yard: Forty five feet (45').
            Interior Side Yard: Ten feet (10').
            Corner Side Yard: Fifteen feet (15').
            Rear Yard: Forty feet (40').
   (B)   All other permitted and special uses, except for planned unit
developments which shall be governed by the provisions of Chapter 3 of this
Title:
         Front And Corner Side Yard: Forty five feet (45').
         Side Yard: Thirty feet (30').
         Rear Yard: Fifty feet (50'). (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-7-1-7: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS, BULK REGULATIONS:
The maximum height for all buildings and structures in the R-1 District shall
be two and one-half (21/2) stories, not to exceed thirty feet (30'). Not more
than thirty five percent (35%) of the net site area shall be covered by
principal buildings and structures and not more than fifty percent (50%) of the
net site area shall be covered by principal and accessory buildings and
structures and paved and impervious areas. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-7-1-8: MINIMUM FLOOR AREA:
Each single-family dwelling shall provide a minimum of one thousand five
hundred (1,500) square feet in floor area. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-7-2: R-2 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT:
5A-7-2-1: INTENT:
The R-2 District is intended to provide single-family areas which are
characterized by smaller lots than are required in the R-1 District.
   No R-2 District shall be established by any new regulation unless the
proposed district area, by itself or in conjunction with any contiguous
territory which either lies within the City and is already zoned R-2 or which
lies within an adjacent municipality and is in a similar zoning classification,
is at least five (5) acres. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-7-2-2: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure or land shall be used and no building or structure shall
be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or designed for
other than one of the following uses:
   Any permitted use in the R-1 District. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-7-2-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be permitted in specific situations in accordance with
the procedures outlined in Section
5A-2-2-6 of this Title:
   Any special use in the R-1 District. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-7-2-4: REQUIRED CONDITIONS:
   (A)   All permitted uses except detached single-family dwelling units, and
all special uses shall be subject to the landscaping and screening provisions
of Chapter 10 of this Title.
   (B)   Swimming, tennis, racquet and other athletic clubs and public and
private utilities shall be screened with trees, compact hedge or other natural
fence of at least seventy five percent (75%) opacity all year long along all
property lines. Lighting for operation of the facilities at night and sound
systems shall be directed away from the surrounding properties.
   (C)   All permitted and special uses in the R-2 District shall comply with
the driveway, off-street parking, and loading requirements of Chapter 11 of
this Title. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-7-2-5: AREA, WIDTH AND DEPTH REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum area and width requirements for all buildings and structures in the
R-2 District shall be as follows:
   (A)   Single-Family Detached Dwellings; Nursery Schools, Preschools And
Daycare Centers: Not less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet per lot, with
a minimum width at the established building line of not less than seventy five
feet (75') for interior lots and eighty five feet (85') for corner lots, and a
minimum lot depth of not less than one hundred twenty feet (120').
   (B)   Parks, Playgrounds And Forest Preserves; Public And Private Utility
Facilities; Golf Courses; Public, Denominational Or Private Schools; Civic
Buildings And Governmental Uses: None.
   (C)   Religious Institutions, Except Churches; Swimming, Tennis, Racquet And
Other Athletic Clubs: Two (2) acres with a minimum width at the established
building line of not less than three hundred feet (300').
   (D)   Planned Unit Developments: Three (3) acres with a minimum width at the
established building line of not less than three hundred feet (300').
   (E)   Churches: Not less than one acre. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-7-2-6: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum yards required for all buildings and structures in the R-2 District
shall be as follows:
   (A)   Single-family detached dwellings:
         Front Yard: Thirty five feet (35').
         Interior Side Yard: Ten feet (10').
         Corner Side Yard: Fifteen feet (15').
         Rear Yard: Thirty feet (30').
   (B)   All other permitted and special uses, except for planned unit
developments which shall be governed by the provisions of Chapter 3 of this
Title:
      Front Yard: Thirty five feet (35').
      Side Yard: Thirty feet (30').
      Rear Yard: Fifty feet (50'). (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-7-2-7: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS, BULK REGULATIONS:
The maximum height for all buildings and structures in the R-2 District shall
be two and one-half (21/2) stories, not to exceed thirty feet (30'). Not more
than thirty five percent (35%) of the net site area shall be covered by
principal buildings and structures and not more than fifty percent (50%) of the
net site area shall be covered by principal and accessory buildings and
structures and paved and impervious areas. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-7-2-8: MINIMUM FLOOR AREA:
Each single-family dwelling shall provide a minimum of one thousand (1,000)
square feet in floor area. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-7-3: R-3 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT:
5A-7-3-1: INTENT:
The R-3 District is intended to provide medium density area occupied primarily
by single-family detached and attached dwelling units, two-family dwellings and
limited apartment dwellings.
No R-3 District shall be established by any new regulation unless the proposed
district area, by itself or in conjunction with any contiguous territory which
either lies within the City and is already zoned R-3 or which lies within an
adjacent municipality and is in a similar zoning classification, is at least
three (3) acres. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-7-3-2: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure or land shall be used and no building or structure shall
be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or designed for
other than one of the following uses:
   (A)   Any use permitted in the R-1 District.
   (B)   Two-family dwellings and duplexes.
   (C)   Single-family attached dwellings.
   (D)   Limited multi-family dwellings.
   (E)   Accessory uses and buildings to the above permitted uses.
   (F)   Home occupations. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-7-3-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be permitted in specific situations in accordance with
the procedures outlined in Section
5A-2-2-6 of this Title:
   (A)   Any special use in the R-1 District.
   (B)   Multi-family dwellings.
   (C)   Nonboarding educational institutions, colleges and universities
excluding business and trade schools.
   (D)   Undertaking establishments.
   (E)   Convalescent and nursing homes.
   (F)   Housing for the elderly. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-7-3-4: REQUIRED CONDITIONS:
The following conditions shall be required:
   (A)   Limited multiple-family buildings shall have a maximum of four (4)
dwelling units per building or structure.
   (B)   Attached single-family dwelling units sharing party walls shall be at
least three (3), but limited to no more than four (4) dwellings in a row or
building.
   (C)   All permitted uses other than single-family attached and detached
dwellings and two-family dwellings and duplexes, and all special uses shall be
subject to the landscaping and screening provisions of Chapter 10 of this
Title.
   (D)   Swimming, tennis, racquet and other athletic clubs and public and
private utilities shall be screened with trees, compact hedge or other natural
fence of at least seventy five percent (75%) opacity all year long along all
property lines. Lighting for operation of the facilities at night and sound
systems shall be directed away from surrounding properties.
   (E)   All permitted and special uses in the R-3 District shall comply with
the driveway, off-street parking, and loading requirements of Chapter 11 of
this Title. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-7-3-5: AREA, WIDTH AND LOT REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum area and width requirements for all buildings and structures in the
R-3 District shall be as follows:
   (A)   Single-Family Detached Dwellings Not Less Than Ten Thousand Square
Feet, Two-Family Dwellings And Duplexes: Not less than twenty thousand (20,000)
square feet per lot, with a minimum width at the established building line of
not less than ninety feet (90') for interior lots and one hundred feet (100')
for corner lots, and a minimum lot depth of not less than one hundred feet
(100').
   (B)   Nursery Schools, Preschools And Daycare Centers: Not less than ten
thousand (10,000) square feet per lot, with a minimum width at the established
building line of not less than seventy five feet (75') for interior lots and
eighty five feet (85') for corner lots, and a minimum lot depth of not less
than one hundred twenty feet (120').
   (C)   Single-Family Attached Dwellings (Three Or More Attached Dwellings):
Not less than eight thousand (8,000) square feet per dwelling unit, with a
minimum width at the established building line of not less than seventy five
feet (75') for interior lots and eighty five feet (85') for corner lots and a
minimum lot depth of not less than one hundred feet (100').
   (D)   Limited Multi-Family And Multi-Family Dwellings: Not less than the
following lot area per dwelling unit, but in no event less than twenty thousand
(20,000) square feet per lot:
 
Type Of Dwelling     Land Area Per Dwelling Unit
4 bedrooms or more   6,500 square feet
3 bedrooms           5,000 square feet
2 bedrooms           4,500 square feet
1 bedroom            4,000 square feet
Efficiency apartment 3,500 square feet
 
There shall be a minimum width at the established building line of not less
than ninety feet (90') for interior lots and one hundred feet (100') for corner
lots and a minimum lot depth of not less than one hundred feet (100').
   (E)   Nonboarding Educational Institutions, Colleges And Universities: Not
less than seven (7) acres with a minimum width at the established building line
of not less than four hundred feet (400').
   (F)   Parks, Playgrounds And Forest Preserves; Public And Private Utility
Facilities; Golf Courses; Public, Denominational Or Private Schools; Civic
Buildings And Governmental Uses: None.
   (G)   Religious Institutions, Except Churches; Swimming, Tennis, Racquet And
Other Athletic Clubs And Planned Unit Developments: Not less than three (3)
acres with a minimum width at the established building line of not less than
three hundred feet (300').
   (H)   Churches: Not less than one acre. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-7-3-6: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum yards required for all buildings and structures in the R-3 District
shall be as follows:
   (A)   Single-family attached and detached dwellings; two-family dwellings
and duplexes; limited multi-family dwellings and multi- family dwellings:
      Front Yard: Thirty feet (30').
      Interior Side Yard: Ten feet (10').
      Corner Side Yard: Fifteen feet (15').
      Rear Yard: Thirty feet (30').
   (B)   All other permitted and special uses, except for planned unit
developments which shall be governed by the provisions of Chapter 3 of this
Title:
      Front Yard: Thirty feet (30').
      Interior Side Yard: Fifteen feet (15') plus one foot (1') for each two
feet (2') by which the building or structure height exceeds twenty eight feet
(28').
      Corner Side Yard: Twenty feet (20') plus one foot (1') for each two feet
(2') by which the building or structure height exceeds twenty eight feet (28').
      Rear Yard: Fifty feet (50'). (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-7-3-7: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS, BULK REGULATIONS:
The maximum height for all buildings and structures in the R-3 District shall
be three (3) stories not to exceed thirty five feet (35'). Not more than forty
percent (40%) of the net site area shall be covered by principal buildings and
structures and not more than sixty percent (60%) of the net site area shall be
covered by principal and accessory buildings and structures, and paved and
impervious areas. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-7-3-8: MINIMUM FLOOR AREA:
   (A)   Attached or detached single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings and
duplexes shall provide a minimum of one thousand (1,000) square feet in floor
area per dwelling unit.
   (B)   Each limited multi-family and multi-family dwelling unit shall provide
the following minimum floor area:
 
Type Of Dwelling     Land Area Per Dwelling Unit
4 bedroom            1,500 square feet
3 bedroom            1,250 square feet
2 bedroom            1,000 square feet
1 bedroom            850 square feet
Efficiency apartment 750 square feet
 
(Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
CHAPTER 8
BUSINESS DISTRICTS
SECTION:
5A-8-1: Required Conditions
5A-8-1-1: Types Of Business Uses
5A-8-1-2: Display Of Goods
5A-8-2: B-1 Neighborhood Convenience Shopping District
5A-8-2-1: Intent
5A-8-2-2: Site Plan Approval
5A-8-2-3: Permitted Uses
5A-8-2-4: Special Uses
5A-8-2-5: Area Requirements
5A-8-2-6: Width And Depth Requirements
5A-8-2-7: Yard Requirements
5A-8-2-8: Height Limitations, Bulk Regulations
5A-8-2-9: Compliance With This Title And Other Applicable Titles Of This Code
Required
5A-8-3: B-2 Community Shopping Center District
5A-8-3-1: Intent
5A-8-3-2: Site Plan Approval
5A-8-3-3: Permitted Uses
5A-8-3-4: Special Uses
5A-8-3-5: Required Conditions
5A-8-3-6: Area Requirements
5A-8-3-7: Width And Depth Requirements
5A-8-3-8: Yard Requirements
5A-8-3-9: Height Limitations, Bulk Regulations
5A-8-3-10: Compliance With This Title And Other Applicable Titles Of This Code
Required
5A-8-4: B-3 General Business District
5A-8-4-1: Intent
5A-8-4-2: Site Plan Approval
5A-8-4-3: Permitted Uses
5A-8-4-4: Special Uses
5A-8-4-5: Required Conditions
5A-8-4-6: Area Requirements
5A-8-4-7: Width And Depth Requirements
5A-8-4-8: Yard Requirements
5A-8-4-9: Height Limitations, Bulk Regulations
5A-8-4-10: Compliance With This Title And Other Applicable Titles Of This Code
Required
5A-8-5: M-U Mixed Use District
5A-8-5-1: Intent
5A-8-5-2: Purpose
5A-8-5-3: Definitions
5A-8-5-4: Site Plan Approval
5A-8-5-5: Permitted Uses
5A-8-5-6: Special Uses
5A-8-5-7: Prohibited Uses
5A-8-5-8: Building Height
5A-8-5-9: Lot Requirements
5A-8-5-10: Yard Requirements
5A-8-5-11: Fences
5A-8-5-12: Indoor/Outdoor Operations
5A-8-5-13: Zoning Map Amendment Guidelines
5A-8-5-14: Compliance With This Title And Other Applicable Titles Of This Code
Required
5A-8-1: REQUIRED CONDITIONS:
5A-8-1-1: TYPES OF BUSINESS USES:
All business establishments shall be retail, wholesale, or service
establishments. All goods produced on the premises shall be sold at retail or
wholesale on the premises where produced. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-8-1-2: DISPLAY OF GOODS:
All business, servicing, or processing shall be conducted within completely
enclosed buildings with the following exceptions: display of merchandise,
similar to that within the business, for sale or rent to the public on a
sidewalk immediately adjoining the side or front facade of the principal
building but not within a required yard, shall be permitted provided that a
five foot (5') wide minimum area is clear and free from display or sales. (Ord.
0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-8-2: B-1 NEIGHBORHOOD CONVENIENCE SHOPPING DISTRICT:
5A-8-2-1: INTENT:
The B-1 Neighborhood Convenience Shopping District is intended to provide
convenience shopping for persons residing in adjacent residential areas, and to
permit such uses as are necessary to satisfy those basic shopping needs which
occur daily or frequently and so require shopping facilities in, relative
proximity to places of residence.
No B-1 District shall be established by any new regulation unless the proposed
new district area, by itself or in conjunction with any contiguous territory
which either lies within the City and is already zoned B-1 or which lies within
an adjacent municipality and is in a similar zoning classification, is at least
forty thousand (40,000) square feet. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-8-2-2: SITE PLAN APPROVAL:
To ensure that the details of development of commercial areas for authorized
uses will be such that the operation of the use will not offend the public
interest, will be compatible and be planned in conformity with surrounding uses
and will not adversely affect the flow of traffic within the community, a site
plan shall be submitted. Refer to the approval process and submittal
requirements as outlined in Chapter 2 of this Title. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-8-2-3: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure, or land shall be used and no building or structure
shall be erected, altered, or enlarged which is arranged, intended or designed
for other than one of the following uses:
   (A)   Bakeries.
   (B)   Barbershops.
   (C)   Beauty shops.
   (D)   Candy and ice cream stores.
   (E)   Drugstores.
   (F)   Dry-cleaning establishments, not including industrial dry- cleaning
plants.
   (G)   Employment agencies.
   (H)   Equipment rental stores.
   (I)   Florist shops.
   (J)   Food stores, grocery stores, meat markets and delicatessens.
   (K)   Gift shops.
   (L)   Hardware stores.
   (M)   Nursery schools, preschools and daycare centers.
   (N)   Offices, business or professional.
   (O)   Package liquor stores.
   (P)   Shoe and clothing repair stores.
   (Q)   Wearing apparel shops.
   (R)   Variety stores. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-8-2-4: SPECIAL USES:
The following special uses may be permitted in specific situations in
accordance with the procedures outlined in Section
5A-2-2-6 of this Title, as appropriate:
   (A)   Banks and financial institutions.
   (B)   Civic buildings and governmental uses.
   (C)   Dental office and/or dental clinic.
   (D)   Drive-in and drive-through establishments.
   (E)   Eating establishments, not including entertainment or dancing.
   (F)   Planned unit developments in accordance with the provisions of Chapter
3 of this Title.
   (G)   Public and private utility facilities.
   (H)   Swimming, tennis, racquet and other athletic club facilities.
   (I)   Undertaking establishments. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000; amd. Ord. O-17-
24, 9-3-2024)
5A-8-2-5: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum lot area in the B-1 District shall be forty thousand (40,000)
square feet. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-8-2-6: WIDTH AND DEPTH REQUIREMENTS:
There are no minimum width or depth requirements in the B-1 District. (Ord. 0-
03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-8-2-7: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum yards required in the B-1 District shall be as follows:
   (A)   Front And Corner Side Yards:
      1.   Abutting Or Adjoining Any District:
         (a)   Yard Depth: There shall be a required front and corner side yard
of not less than fifty feet (50') in depth.
         (b)   Off-Street Parking Facilities Setback: Off-street parking
facilities are not allowed within the first thirty feet (30') of the required
front or corner side yard.
   (B)   Interior Side And Rear Yards:
      1.   Abutting Or Adjoining A Nonresidential District:
         (a)   Yard Depth: There shall be a required interior side and rear
yard of not less than twenty five feet (25') in depth.
         (b)   Off-Street Parking Facilities Setback: Off-street parking
facilities within an interior side or rear yard are not allowed within the
first twenty feet (20') of the required yard provided.
      2.   Abutting Or Adjoining A Residential District:
         (a)   Yard Depth: There shall be a required interior side and rear
yard of not less than thirty five feet (35') in depth.
         (b)   Off-Street Parking Facilities Setback: Off-street parking
facilities within an interior side or rear yard shall not be closer than thirty
feet (30') from an adjoining lot in a residential district.
         (c)   Required Fence: Where a rear or interior side lot line in the B-
1 District coincides with an interior side or rear lot line in an adjoining
residential district, a fence of at least seventy five percent (75%) opacity
shall be provided within the yard. The height of such fence shall be six feet
(6').
   (C)   Accessory Structures: Accessory structures shall comply with yard and
setback requirements as prescribed in Section
5A-5-9 of this Title.
   (D)   Permitted Obstructions In Required Yard: Permitted obstructions in
required yards are allowed as described herein and as prescribed in Section
5A-5-7-3 of this Title and Chapter 11 of this Title including:
      1.   Drives And Off-Street Parking Facilities: Required yards may be
occupied by drives and off-street parking facilities when constructed in
accordance with the setback requirements of this District and in compliance
with Section
5A-5-7-3 of this Title and Chapter 11 of this Title.
      2.   Joint Parking: In the case of joint parking facilities, parking may
occur in the required yard without regard to the side lot line at the point of
the combination of the parcels, and in compliance with subsections
5A-11-2-1(B) and (C) of this Title. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-8-2-8: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS, BULK REGULATIONS:
The maximum floor area ratio for all buildings and structures in the B-
1 District shall be 0.5 and the maximum height shall be two (2) stories not to
exceed thirty feet (30'). Not more than fifty percent (50%) of the net site
area shall be covered by principal buildings and structures, and not more than
seventy five percent (75%) of the net site area shall be covered by principal
and accessory buildings and structures, and paved or impervious areas. (Ord. 0-
03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-8-2-9: COMPLIANCE WITH THIS TITLE AND OTHER APPLICABLE TITLES OF THIS CODE
REQUIRED:
Properties located in this District shall comply with all applicable
regulations of this Title as well as all other applicable regulations with this
Code. At a minimum, the following regulations must be adhered to:
   (A)   Landscape Requirements: All business establishments shall comply with
the landscaping requirements of Chapter 10 of this Title.
   (B)   Off-Street Parking And Loading Requirements: All business
establishments shall comply with the off-street parking and loading
requirements of Chapter 11 of this Title.
   (C)   Final Engineering: Provisions for storm water management and
engineering must be made in compliance with applicable codes.
   (D)   Performance Standards: Processes and equipment employed within
business districts shall be limited to those which comply with the performance
standards of Chapter 12 of this Title.
   (E)   Sign Regulations: The signs on the property shall comply with the
Darien sign code (Title 4, Chapter 3 of this Code). (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-8-3: B-2 COMMUNITY SHOPPING CENTER DISTRICT:
5A-8-3-1: INTENT:
The B-2 community shopping center district is intended to accommodate the needs
of a much larger consumer population than is served by the neighborhood
convenience shopping district, thus a wider range of uses and structure sizes
is permitted for both daily and occasional shopping.
No B-2 district shall be established by any new regulations unless the proposed
new district area, by itself or in conjunction with any contiguous territory
which either lies within the city and is already zoned B-2 or which lies within
an adjacent municipality and is in a similar zoning classification, is at least
two (2) acres. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-8-3-2: SITE PLAN APPROVAL:
To ensure that the details of development of commercial areas for authorized
uses will be such that the operation of the use will not offend the public
interest, will be compatible and be planned in conformity with surrounding uses
and will not adversely affect the flow of traffic within the community, a site
plan shall be submitted. Refer to the approval process and submittal
requirements as outlined in chapter 2 of this title. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-8-3-3: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure, or land shall be used and no building or structure
shall be erected, altered, or enlarged which is arranged, intended or designed
for other than one of the following uses:
   Any permitted use in the B-1 district.
   Animal hospitals.
   Antique shops.
   Art shops or galleries, but not including auction rooms.
   Automobile parts and accessories stores.
   Banks and financial institutions.
   Bicycle sales, rental, and repair stores.
   Blueprinting and copying establishments.
   Book and stationery stores.
   Business and office machine stores, sales and service.
   Camera and photographic supply stores.
   Carpet and rug stores, retail sales only.
   Catering establishments.
   China and glassware stores.
   Clinics, medical and dental.
   Clothing and costume rental stores.
   Coin and stamp stores.
   Custom dressmaking establishments.
   Dairy product establishments.
   Department stores.
   Dry goods stores.
   Electrical, light fixtures, and household appliance stores including radio
and television sales and repair.
   Employment agencies.
   Frozen food stores, including locker rental in conjunction therewith.
   Furniture stores, including upholstering when conducted as part of the
retail operations and secondary to the principal use.
   Furrier shops, including the incidental storage and conditioning of furs.
   Garden supply, tool, and seed stores.
   General retail.
   Hearing aid stores.
   Hobby shops, for retail of items to be assembled or used away from the
premises.
   Household appliance stores.
   Interior decorating shops, including upholstering and making of draperies,
slipcovers, and other similar articles, when conducted as part of the retail
operations and secondary to the principal use.
   Jewelry stores, including watch repair.
   Leather goods and luggage stores.
   Locksmith shops.
   Mail order, catalog store.
   Millinery shops.
   Musical instrument sales and repair.
   Optician, retail sales.
   Orthopedic and medical appliance stores.
   Paint, glass, and wallpaper stores.
   Pet shops.
   Phonograph record and sheet music stores.
   Photography studios, including the developing of film and pictures when
conducted as part of the retail business on the premises.
   Picture framing, when conducted for retail trade on the premises only.
   Radio and television sales, service, and repair shops.
   Schools, music and dance.
   Secondhand stores and rummage shops.
   Sewing machine sales and service.
   Shoe stores.
   Sporting goods stores.
   Tailor shops.
   Ticket agencies.
   Tobacco shops.
   Toy shops.
   Travel bureaus and transportation ticket offices.
   Undertaking establishments. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000; amd. Ord. 0-02-06, 1-
16-2006)
5A-8-3-4: SPECIAL USES:
The following special uses may be permitted in specific situations in
accordance with the procedures outlined in section
5A-2-2-6 of this title, as appropriate:
   Any special use in the B-1 district, except those that are permitted uses in
the B-2 district.
   Amusement establishments, including, but not limited to, bowling alleys,
sports complexes, pool halls, dance halls, and skating rinks, and
establishments utilizing more than four (4) automatic amusement devices as
either: a) an accessory use to a restaurant offering complete meals; or b) an
accessory use to an approved amusement establishment.
   Automobile service stations, repair facilities, and car washes used in
conjunction with an automobile service station.
   Bus stations.
   Drinking establishments.
   Eating establishments.
   Garages for storage, repair and servicing of motor vehicles, including body
repair, painting and engine rebuilding.
   Hotels and motels.
   Motor vehicle sales.
   Publicly owned and operated parks, playgrounds, and forest preserves.
   Radio and television stations and studios.
   Theaters.
   Wholesale establishments. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000; amd. Ord. 0-02-06, 1-16-
2006)
5A-8-3-5: REQUIRED CONDITIONS:
The following conditions shall be required:
   (A)   Dwelling units, other than those located in a hotel or motel or in an
undertaking establishment, or watchman's quarters located on the premises where
employed, shall not be permitted. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-8-3-6: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum lot area in the B-2 district shall not be less than two (2) acres.
(Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-8-3-7: WIDTH AND DEPTH REQUIREMENTS:
There are no minimum width or depth requirements in the B-2 district. (Ord. 0-
03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-8-3-8: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum yards required in the B-2 district shall be as follows:
   (A)   Front And Corner Side Yards:
      1.   Abutting Or Adjoining Any District:
         (a)   Yard Depth: There shall be a required front yard of not less
than fifty feet (50') in depth.
         (b)   Off Street Parking Facilities Setback: Off street parking
facilities within the front or corner side yard are not allowed within the
first thirty feet (30') of the required front yard.
   (B)   Interior Side And Rear Yards:
      1.   Abutting Or Adjoining A Nonresidential District:
         (a)   Yard Depth: There shall be a required interior side and rear
yard of not less than thirty feet (30') in depth.
         (b)   Off Street Parking Facilities: Off street parking facilities
within an interior side or rear yard are not allowed within the first twenty
feet (20') of the required yard.
      2.   Adjoining A Residential District:
         (a)   Yard Depth: There shall be a required interior side yard of not
less than forty feet (40') in depth.
         (b)   Off Street Parking Facilities Setback: Off street parking
facilities within an interior side yard shall not be nearer than thirty feet
(30') from an adjoining lot in a residence district.
         (c)   Required Fence: Where an interior side or rear lot line in the
B-2 district coincides with an interior side or rear lot line in an adjoining
residential district, a fence of at least seventy five percent (75%) opacity
shall be provided within the yard. The height of such fence shall be six feet
(6').
   (C)   Accessory Structures: Accessory structures shall comply with yard and
setback requirements as prescribed in section
5A-5-9 of this title.
   (D)   Permitted Obstructions In Required Yard: Permitted obstructions in
required yards are allowed as described herein and as prescribed in section
5A-5-7-3 and chapter 11 of this title, including:
      1.   Drives And Off Street Parking Facilities: Required yards may be
occupied by drives and off street parking facilities when constructed in
accordance with the setback requirements of this district and in compliance
with section
5A-5-7-3 and chapter 11 of this title.
      2.   Joint Parking: In the case of joint parking facilities, parking may
occur in the required yard without regard to the side lot line at the point of
the combination of the parcels, and in compliance with subsections
5A-11-2-1(B) and (C) of this Title. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-8-3-9: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS, BULK REGULATIONS:
The maximum floor area ratio for all buildings and structures in the B-
2 District shall be 0.6, and the maximum height shall be three (3) stories not
to exceed forty feet (40'). Not more than fifty percent (50%) of the net site
area shall be covered by principal buildings and structures and not more than
seventy five percent (75%) of the net site area shall be covered by principal
and accessory buildings and structures, and paved or impervious areas. (Ord. 0-
03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-8-3-10: COMPLIANCE WITH THIS TITLE AND OTHER APPLICABLE TITLES OF THIS CODE
REQUIRED:
Properties located in this District shall comply with all applicable
regulations of this Title as well as all other applicable regulations with this
Code. At a minimum, the following regulations must be adhered to:
   (A)   Landscape Requirements: All business establishments shall comply with
the landscaping requirements of Chapter 10 of this Title.
   (B)   Off-Street Parking And Loading Requirements: All business
establishments shall comply with the off-street parking and loading
requirements of Chapter 11 of this Title.
   (C)   Final Engineering: Provisions for storm water management and
engineering must be made in compliance with applicable codes.
   (D)   Performance Standards: Processes and equipment employed within
business districts shall be limited to those which comply with the performance
standards of Chapter 12 of this Title.
   (E)   Sign Regulations: The signs on the property shall comply with the
Darien sign code (Title 4, Chapter 3 of this Code). (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-8-4: B-3 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT:
5A-8-4-1: INTENT:
The B-3 General Business District is intended to accommodate those retail and
wholesale commercial activities which may be incompatible with the
predominantly retail uses permitted in other business districts and whose
service area is not committed to any one neighborhood.
No B-3 District shall be established by any new regulation unless the proposed
new district area, by itself or in conjunction with any contiguous territory
which either lies within the City and is already zoned B-3 or which lies within
an adjacent municipality and is in a similar zoning classification, is at least
six (6) acres. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-8-4-2: SITE PLAN APPROVAL:
To ensure that the details of development of commercial areas for authorized
uses will be such that the operation of the use will not offend the public
interest, will be compatible and be planned in conformity with surrounding uses
and will not adversely affect the flow of traffic within the community, a site
plan shall be submitted. Refer to the approval process and submittal
requirements as outlined in Chapter 2 of this Title. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-8-4-3: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure, or land shall be used and no building, or structure
shall be erected, altered, or enlarged which is arranged, intended or designed
for other than one of the following uses:
   (A)   Bank and financial institutions.
   (B)   Civic buildings and governmental uses.
   (C)   Clubs, lodges and meeting places for other organizations.
   (D)   Department stores.
   (E)   Educational facilities.
   (F)   Electrical showrooms and shops.
   (G)   Exterminating shops.
   (H)   Greenhouses and nurseries.
   (I)   Health clubs.
   (J)   Nursery schools, preschools, and daycare centers.
   (K)   Plumbing showrooms and shops. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-8-4-4: SPECIAL USES:
The following special uses may be permitted in specific situations in
accordance with the procedures outlined in Section
5A-2-2-6 of this Title, as appropriate:
   (A)   Any permitted use in the B-1 and B-2 Districts.
   (B)   Any special use in the B-1 and B-2 Districts, except those permitted
uses in the B-3 District.
   (C)   Amusement establishments, including, but not limited to, bowling
alleys, pool halls, dance halls, and skating rinks.
   (D)   Boat showroom, sales and repairs.
   (E)   Building material and products, sales and storage.
   (F)   Car wash.
   (G)   Contractors' or construction offices, shops and yards.
   (H)   Drive-in and drive-through establishments.
   (I)   Eating establishments.
   (J)   Farm implement sales.
   (K)   Fuel and ice sales.
   (L)   Hotels and motels.
   (M)   Machinery sales.
   (N)   Mobile home sale and rental.
   (O)   Model homes and garage displays.
   (P)   Motor vehicle sales, including recreational vehicles.
   (Q)   Parking lots and garages.
   (R)   Radio and television stations and studios.
   (S)   Recording or sound studios.
   (T)   Vocational or trade schools.
   (U)   Stadiums, auditoriums, and arenas.
   (V)   Theaters.
   (W)   Trailer and camper sales and rental, for use with private passenger
motor vehicles.
   (X)   Undertaking establishments.
   (Y)   Wholesale establishments. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-8-4-5: REQUIRED CONDITIONS:
The following conditions shall be required:
   (A)   Dwelling units, other than those located in a hotel or motel or in an
undertaking establishment or watchman's quarters located on the premises where
employed, shall not be permitted. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-8-4-6: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum lot area shall be not less than six (6) acres of land area. (Ord.
0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-8-4-7: WIDTH AND DEPTH REQUIREMENTS:
There are no minimum width or depth requirements in the B-3 District. (Ord. 0-
03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-8-4-8: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum yards required in the B-3 District shall be as follows:
   (A)   Front And Corner Side Yards:
      1.   Yard Depth: There shall be a required front yard of not less than
fifty feet (50') in depth.
      2.   Off-Street Parking Facilities Setback: Off-street parking facilities
are not allowed within the first fifty feet (50') of the required yard. As a
part of the site plan approval process called for in Section
5A-8-4-2 of the Zoning Ordinance, the City may require that a portion of such
area be designated and developed as a frontage or similar road.
   (B)   Side And Rear Yards:
      1.   Interior Side Yard:
         (a)   Adjoining A Nonresidential District:
            (1)   Yard Depth: There shall be a required interior side yard of
not less than forty feet (40') in depth.
            (2)   Off-Street Parking Facilities: Off-street parking facilities
are not allowed within the first twenty feet (20') of the required yard.
         (b)   Adjoining A Residential District:
            (1)   Yard Depth: There shall be a required interior side yard of
not less than fifty feet (50').
            (2)   Off-Street Parking Facilities Setback: Off-street parking
facilities are not allowed within the first thirty feet (30') of the required
yard.
            (3)   Required Fence: Where a rear lot line in the B-3 Districts
coincides with an interior side or rear lot line in an adjoining residential
district, a fence of at least seventy five percent (75%) opacity shall be
provided within the yard. The height of such fence shall be six feet (6').
   (C)   Accessory Structures: Accessory structures shall comply with yard and
setback requirements as prescribed in Section
5A-5-9 of this Title.
   (D)   Permitted Obstructions In Required Yard: Permitted obstructions in
required yards are allowed as described herein and as prescribed in Section
5A-5-7-3 of this Title and Chapter 11 of this Title.
      1.   Drives And Off-Street Parking Facilities: Required yards may be
occupied by drives and off-street parking facilities when constructed in
accordance with the setback requirements of this District.
      2.   Joint Parking: In the case of joint parking facilities, parking may
occur in the required yard without regard to the side lot line at the point of
the combination of the parcels, and in compliance with subsections
5A-11-2-1(B) and (C) of this Title. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-8-4-9: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS, BULK REGULATIONS:
The maximum floor area ratio for all buildings and structures in the B-
3 District shall be 0.6, and the maximum height shall be three (3) stories not
to exceed forty feet (40'). Not more than fifty percent (50%) of the net site
area shall be covered by principal buildings and structures and not more than
seventy five percent (75%) of the net site area shall be covered by principal
and accessory buildings and structures and paved or impervious areas. (Ord. 0-
03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-8-4-10: COMPLIANCE WITH THIS TITLE AND OTHER APPLICABLE TITLES OF THIS CODE
REQUIRED:
Properties located in this District shall comply with all applicable
regulations of this Title as well as all other applicable regulations with this
Code. At a minimum, the following regulations must be adhered to:
   (A)   Landscape Requirements: All business establishments shall comply with
the landscaping requirements of Chapter 10 of this Title. Subsection
5A-10-5(C) of this Title provides additional landscaping requirements where
abutting a residence district.
   (B)   Off-Street Parking And Loading Requirements: All business
establishments shall comply with the off-street parking and loading
requirements of Chapter 11 of this Title.
   (C)   Final Engineering: Provisions for storm water management and
engineering must be made in compliance with applicable codes.
   (D)   Performance Standards: Processes and equipment employed within
business districts shall be limited to those which comply with the performance
standards of Chapter 12 of this Title.
   (E)   Sign Regulations: The signs on the property shall comply with the
Darien sign code (Title 4, Chapter 3 of this Code). (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-8-5: M-U MIXED-USE DISTRICT:
5A-8-5-1: INTENT:
The intent of this M-U Mixed-Use District is to accommodate development
characterized by a mixture of housing types in commercial areas and to
facilitate the development and redevelopment of areas suited to a combination
of commercial and residential uses within the same building. It is recognized
that some mature areas of the city are comprised of a variety of compatible
uses and the M-U Mixed-Use District is created for the purpose of maintaining
the vitality of such areas and encouraging appropriate redevelopment. The focus
is to allow a more balanced mix of uses in the siting and design of new
developments and redevelopment to anticipate changes in the marketplace and to
provide for the diverse needs of the residents of the city. Flexibility will be
allowed to accomplish such goals through the utilization of streets as public
places that encourage pedestrian and bicycle travel and the encouragement of
efficient land use by facilitating compact, high-intensity development,
minimizing the amount of land needed for surface parking and, facilitation of
development (e.g., land use mix, density, and design) that supports public
transit where applicable. (Ord. O-13-24, 6-17-2024)
5A-8-5-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the M-U Mixed-Use District is to:
   (A)   Accommodate mixed-use buildings with neighborhood-serving retail,
service, and other uses on the ground floor and residential units above the
non-residential space.
   (B)   Encourage development that exhibits the physical design
characteristics of pedestrian-oriented, storefront-style shopping streets.
   (C)   Allow for the conversion of dwelling units in older commercial areas
of mixed dwelling types in order to extend the economic life of these
structures and allow owners to justify expenditures for repairs and
modernization.
   (D)   Serve as a zone of transition between commercially dense districts and
residential districts by permitting residential occupancy in the units above
the non-residential space. (Ord. O-13-24, 6-17-2024)
5A-8-5-3: DEFINITIONS:
 
                    A building that contains at least one floor devoted to
MIXED-USE BUILDING: allowed non-residential uses and at least one devoted to
                    allowed residential uses. (Ord. O-13-24, 6-17-2024)
 
5A-8-5-4: SITE PLAN APPROVAL:
To ensure that the details of development of commercial areas for authorized
uses will be such that the operation of the use will not offend the public
interest, will be compatible and be planned in conformity with surrounding uses
and will not adversely affect the flow of traffic within the community, a site
plan shall be submitted. Refer to the approval process and submittal
requirements as outlined in Chapter 2 of this Title. (Ord. O-13-24, 6-17-2024)
5A-8-5-5: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure, or land shall be used and no building, or structure
shall be erected, altered, or enlarged which is arranged, intended or designed
for other than one of the following uses:
   (A)   Accessory structures.
   (B)   Barbershops.
   (C)   Beauty shops.
   (D)   Clinics, medical and dental.
   (E)   Drinking establishments.
   (F)   Eating establishments.
   (G)   General retail.
   (H)   Hotels and motels.
   (I)   Mixed-Use Buildings.
   (J)   Multi-family dwellings (upper levels only if in Mixed-Use Buildings).
   (K)   Nail salons.
   (L)   Offices.
   (M)   Outdoor dining.
   (N)   Printing shops.
   (O)   Recreational activities, commercial types.
   (P)   Schools, music and dance.
   (Q)   Single-family dwellings (upper levels only if in Mixed-Use Buildings).
   (R)   Theatres, other than drive-ins. (Ord. O-13-24, 6-17-2024)
5A-8-5-6: SPECIAL USES:
The following special uses may be permitted in specific situations in
accordance with the procedures outline in Section
5A-2-2-6 of this Title, as appropriate:
   (A)   Amusement establishments.
   (B)   Banks.
   (C)   Banquet halls.
   (D)   Community centers.
   (E)   Consignment shops. (Ord. O-13-24, 6-17-2024)
5A-8-5-7: PROHIBITED USES:
No lot, parcel, or tract of land, shall be used, and no building or structure
shall be erected, altered, or remodeled, for any of the following uses or uses
similar thereto:
   (A)   Adult-entertainment establishments.
   (B)   Cannabis business establishments.
   (C)   Currency exchange.
   (D)   Kennels.
   (E)   Package liquor stores.
   (F)   Pawn shops.
   (G)   Tobacco shops. (Ord. O-13-24, 6-17-2024)
5A-8-5-8: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No principal structure shall exceed six (6) stories or seventy-five feet (75')
in height. No accessory structure shall exceed one (1) story or fifteen feet
(15') in height. (Ord. O-13-24, 6-17-2024)
5A-8-5-9: LOT REQUIREMENTS:
The following minimum lot requirements shall be observed:
   (A)   Lot Area: Two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet for all mixed-
use.
   (B)   Lot Width: Twenty feet (20').
   (C)   Floor Area Ratio (FAR): 1.5 maximum. (Ord. O-13-24, 6-17-2024)
5A-8-5-10: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum yards required in the M-U Mixed-Use District shall be as follows:
   (A)   Yard Depths: Yards of the following minimum depths shall be provided:
      1.   Front And Corner Side Yards: No minimum.
      2.   Side Yards: No minimum.
      3.   Rear Yards: Not less than ten feet (10').
      4.   If the side yard or rear yard abuts a residential district, there
shall be a minimum five foot (5') side yard and twenty foot (20') rear yard.
   (B)   Vegetation in Yards: Property owners may plant bushes, trees, flowers
or other ornamental plantings; however, for any growth extending over the lot
line of an adjoining neighbor, or that any way may reasonable become a danger
or nuisance to the community, the vegetation may be required to be abated.
(Ord. O-13-24, 6-17-2024)
5A-8-5-11: FENCES:
The following conditions apply to fences where applicable:
   (A)   Height Limitations: If a fence is to be constructed at the rear or
side yard of an M-U Mixed-Use District lot that abuts a residential district,
it shall be at least six feet (6') in height along the lot line that abuts the
residence district.
   (B)   Location: The fence must be at least six inches (6") from the lot
line. If there are complaints by an adjoining neighbor and the fence is
determined to be closer than six inches (6") from the lot line, the
responsibility is upon the fence owner to remove it at his own expense.
   (C)   Jointly Owned Fences: If adjoining property owners agree in writing
and file an acknowledgement with the City Clerk, a fence may be built on the
precise lot line between the properties. The agreement must specify that
neither owner may remove the fence without the permission of the other owner.
Both parties are responsible for the maintenance of the fence. (Ord. O-13-24,
6-17-2024)
5A-8-5-12: INDOOR/OUTDOOR OPERATIONS:
All permitted uses in the M-U Mixed-Use District must be conducted completely
within the enclosed buildings on the lot unless expressly authorized otherwise
by the City Council. This requirement does not apply to off-street parking or
load areas, and outdoor dining areas. (Ord. O-13-24, 6-17-2024)
5A-8-5-13: ZONING MAP AMENDMENT GUIDELINES:
In making its legislative determination to zone or rezone a property to the M-
U Mixed-Use District, the Planning and Zoning Commission and City Council may
apply the following guidelines to the proposal under consideration:
   (A)   The capacity of existing and proposed community facilities and
utilities including water, sewer, and transportation systems to serve the
permitted uses which might lawfully occur on the property so zoned.
   (B)   The relationship of the subject property to the various aspects of the
City's transportation system including pedestrian ways, bicycle paths, major
and collector streets, and public transit.
   (C)   The adequacy of public services including schools, police and fire
protection, and solid waste collection serving the property and the impact the
permitted uses would have upon these services.
   (D)   The potential impact existing or permitted uses in the vicinity would
have upon the land uses authorized in the M-U Mixed Use District and the impact
such uses, if developed, would have upon existing uses in the vicinity.
   (E)   The extent to which the proposal will promote balanced growth in the
community and will be consistent with the City's goals for equal housing
opportunity and a variety of housing types.
   (F)   The impact any natural disasters, including flooding, would have upon
the permitted uses.
   (G)   The impact the proposal would have upon the environment including
noise, air and water pollution.
   (H)   The conformance of the proposal to the overall comprehensive plan and
map for the City. (Ord. O-13-24, 6-17-2024)
5A-8-5-14: COMPLIANCE WITH THIS TITLE AND OTHER APPLICABLE TITLES OF THIS CODE
REQUIRED:
Properties located in this District shall comply with all applicable
regulations of this Title as well as other applicable regulations with this
Code. At a minimum, the following regulations must be adhered to:
   (A)   Landscape Requirements: All business establishments shall comply with
the landscaping requirements of Chapter 10 of this Title.
   (B)   Off-Street Parking And Loading Requirements: All business
establishments shall comply with the off-street parking and loading
requirements of Chapter 11 of this Title.
   (C)   Final Engineering: Provisions for storm water management and
engineering must be made in compliance with applicable codes.
   (D)   Performance Standards: Processes and equipment employed within
business districts shall be limited to those which comply with the performance
standards of Chapter 12 of this Title.
   (E)   Sign Regulations: The signs on the property shall comply with the
Darien Sign Code (Title 4, Chapter 3 of this Code). (Ord. O-13-24, 6-17-2024)
CHAPTER 9
OFFICE AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
5A-9-1: Required Conditions
5A-9-1-1: Prohibited Uses
5A-9-1-2: Prohibited Activities
5A-9-1-3: Conduct Of Operations And Outside Storage
5A-9-1-4: Dwelling Units
5A-9-2: O Office District
5A-9-2-1: Intent
5A-9-2-2: Site Plan Approval Process
5A-9-2-3: Permitted Uses
5A-9-2-4: Special Uses
5A-9-2-5: Required Conditions
5A-9-2-6: Area Requirements
5A-9-2-7: Width Requirements
5A-9-2-8: Yard Requirements
5A-9-2-9: Height Limitations, Bulk Regulations
5A-9-2-10: Compliance With This Title And Other Applicable Titles Of This Code
Required
5A-9-3: OR&I Office, Research And Light Industry District
5A-9-3-1: Intent
5A-9-3-2: Site Plan Approval Process
5A-9-3-3: Permitted Uses
5A-9-3-4: Special Uses
5A-9-3-5: Required Conditions
5A-9-3-6: Area Requirements
5A-9-3-7: Width Requirements
5A-9-3-8: Yard Requirements
5A-9-3-9: Height Limitations, Bulk Regulations
5A-9-3-10: Compliance With This Title And Other Applicable Titles Of This Code
Required
5A-9-4: I-1 General Industrial District
5A-9-4-1: Intent
5A-9-4-2: Site Plan Approval Process
5A-9-4-3: Permitted Uses
5A-9-4-4: Special Uses
5A-9-4-5: Area Requirements
5A-9-4-6: Width Requirements
5A-9-4-7: Yard Requirements
5A-9-4-8: Height Limitations, Bulk Regulations
5A-9-4-9: Compliance With This Title And Other Applicable Titles Of This Code
Required
5A-9-1: REQUIRED CONDITIONS:
5A-9-1-1: PROHIBITED USES:
No lot, parcel, or tract of land shall be used, and no building or structure
shall be erected, altered, or remodeled, for any of the following uses or uses
similar thereto: abattoirs, arsenals, crematories, creosote treatment or
manufacture; fat rendering, fertilizer manufacture; fireworks or explosive
manufacture or storage; dumping, reduction or other processing of garbage, dead
animals, offal or refuse, except as customarily incidental to a permitted
principal use; ore reduction, petroleum processing or refining, pyroxylin
manufacture, natural or synthetic rubber, caoutchouc, or gutta percha
manufacture or treatment; salt works, sauerkraut manufacture, soap manufacture,
smelters; stockyard or slaughter of animals or fowl; tallow, grease or lard
manufacture or treatment; tanning, curing or storage of rawhides or skins, tar
distillation or manufacture; or cement, concrete or asphaltic concrete mixing
plants. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-9-1-2: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
No activities involving the storage, utilization or manufacture of materials or
products which decompose by detonation shall be permitted except such as are
specifically licensed by the City and are used as customarily incidental to the
operation of a principal use in such quantities, and in a manner conforming
with applicable performance standards set forth in chapter 12 of this title.
Such materials shall include, but shall not be confined to: all primary
explosives, such as lead oxide, lead styphnate, fulminates and tetracene; all
high explosives, such as TNT, RDS, HMX, PETN, hand picric acid, propellants and
components thereof, such as nitrocellulose, black powder, boron hydrantes,
hydrazine and its derivatives; pyrotechnics and fireworks, such as magnesium
powder, potassium chlorate and potassium nitrate, blasting explosives, such as
dynamite and nitroglycerine; blasting explosives, such as acetylides,
tetraxoles, perchloric acid, perchlorates, chlorates, hydrogen peroxide in
concentrations greater than thirty five percent (35%); and nuclear fuels,
fissionable materials and products and reactor elements, such as uranium 235
and plutonium. Businesses that would involve the storage, utilization,
processing, or manufacture of hazardous chemicals in quantities subject to the
tier II reporting requirements as defined by USEPA are prohibited; provided,
however, that this prohibition does not apply to businesses for which tier II
reporting is required only due to the utilization, but not the manufacture or
repair, of lead-acid batteries used to power heavy duty equipment such as
forklifts. (Ord. 0-13-19, 4-1-2019)
5A-9-1-3: CONDUCT OF OPERATIONS AND OUTSIDE STORAGE:
All business, service or processing, and all other activities and operations,
shall be conducted within completely enclosed buildings. However, open yards or
space may be used for accessory outside storage, if granted special use
approval by the City Council in the I-1 District. At a minimum, such activity
shall be fully enclosed by a fence, at least six feet (6') but not exceeding
eight feet (8') in height; provided, that no outside storage is to exceed the
height of such fence, and further provided, that no such storage shall be
located in any front yard or corner side yard. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-9-1-4: DWELLING UNITS:
Under no circumstances shall dwelling units be permitted in the Office and
Industrial Districts, except that a single one-family dwelling shall be
permitted as a residence for a watchman, caretaker or guard; provided, that
such one-family dwelling is located on a tract used for an office-industrial
purpose and properly located under the terms of this chapter; and further
provided, that such one-family dwelling shall be occupied only by the watchman,
caretaker or guard employed by the individual which owns, rents, leases or
operates the industrial use located on the tract, together with members of the
family of the watchman, caretaker or guard. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-9-2: O OFFICE DISTRICT:
5A-9-2-1: INTENT:
The O Office District is intended to provide an environment suitable for and
limited to office uses that will not have an adverse effect upon the
environmental quality of the community and to provide a zoning district
classification suitable to act as a buffer between residential uses and more
intense commercial uses.
No O District shall be established by any new regulation unless the proposed
district area, by itself or in conjunction with any contiguous territory which
either lies within the City and is already zoned either O, OR&I, I-1, B-1, B-2,
or B-3, or which lies within an adjacent municipality and is in a similar
zoning classification, is at least three (3) acres. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-9-2-2: SITE PLAN APPROVAL PROCESS:
To ensure that the details of development of office and industrial areas for
authorized uses will be such that the operation of the use will not offend the
public interest, will be compatible and be planned in conformity with
surrounding uses and will not adversely affect the flow of traffic within the
community, a site plan shall be submitted. Refer to the approval process and
submittal requirements as outlined in chapter 2 of this title. (Ord. 0-03-00,
4-3-2000)
5A-9-2-3: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure, or land shall be used and no building or structure
shall be erected, altered, or enlarged which is arranged, intended, or designed
for other than one of the following uses:
   Offices, business or professional.
   Pharmacies that provide only prescription and non- prescription medicines,
drugs, and medical devices, and no non-medical goods or services, and no
medical cannabis, in a location that is in a contiguous area that has medical
and dental clinics. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000; amd. Ord. 0-25-17, 12-4-2017)
5A-9-2-4: SPECIAL USES:
The following special uses may be permitted in specific situations in
accordance with the procedures outlined in section
5A-2-2-6 of this title, as appropriate:
   Animal hospitals.
   Banks and financial institutions, with or without accessory drive-through.
   Civic buildings and governmental uses.
   Clinics, medical and dental, to include all twenty four (24) hour outpatient
healthcare facilities.
   Hospitals.
   Nursery schools, preschools, and daycare centers.
   Public and private utility facilities.
   Religious institutions, including, but not limited to, churches, rectories,
seminaries, convents, and monasteries including dormitories and other accessory
uses required for operation.
   Swimming, tennis, racquet and other athletic club facilities.
   Undertaking establishments. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000; amd. Ord. 0-04-08, 3-3-
2008)
5A-9-2-5: REQUIRED CONDITIONS:
The following conditions shall be required:
   (A)   No retail sales permitted.
   (B)   No outside storage permitted.
   (C)   No storage of any product or material for sale.
   (D)   All business shall be conducted within completely enclosed buildings,
unless otherwise indicated.
   (E)   No production of any material or product is permitted. (Ord. 0-03-00,
4-3-2000)
5A-9-2-6: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum lot area in O Office District shall be one-half (1/2) acre. (Ord.
0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-9-2-7: WIDTH REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum lot width on a lot in the Office District shall be one hundred feet
(100'). (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-9-2-8: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum yards in the O District shall be as follows:
   (A)   Front And Corner Side Yards:
      1.   Abutting Or Adjoining A Nonresidential District:
         (a)   Yard Depth: There shall be a required front and corner side yard
of not less than fifty feet (50') in depth.
         (b)   Off-Street Parking Facilities Setback: Off-street parking
facilities are not allowed within the first thirty feet (30') of the required
front and corner side yard.
      2.   Abutting Or Adjoining A Residential District:
         (a)   Yard Depth: There shall be a required front and corner side yard
of not less than fifty feet (50') in depth.
         (b)   Off-Street Parking Facilities Setback: Off-street parking
facilities shall not be allowed within the first thirty feet (30') of the
required front or corner side yard.
   (B)   Side And Rear Yards:
      1.   Abutting Or Adjoining A Nonresidential District:
         (a)   Yard Depth: There shall be a required interior side and rear
yard of not less than twenty five feet (25').
         (b)   Off-Street Parking Facilities Setback: Off-street parking
facilities are not allowed within the first twenty feet (20') of the required
interior side and rear yard.
      2.   Abutting Or Adjoining A Residential District:
         (a)   Yard Depth: There shall be a required interior side and rear
yard of not less than twenty five feet (25').
         (b)   Off-Street Parking Facilities Setback: Off-street parking
facilities are not allowed within the first thirty feet (30') of the required
interior side or rear yard.
         (c)   Required Fence: Where a side lot line in the O District
coincides with a side or rear lot line in an adjacent residential district, a
fence of at least seventy five percent (75%) opacity shall be provided within
the yard along the property line. The height of such fence shall be a minimum
of six feet (6'), not to exceed eight feet (8').
   (C)   Accessory Structures: Accessory structures shall comply with yard and
setback requirements as prescribed in Section
5A-5-9 of this Title.
   (D)   Permitted Obstructions In Required Yard: Permitted obstructions in
required yards are allowed as described herein and as prescribed in Section
5A-5-7-3 of this Title and Chapter 11 of this Title including:
      1.   Drives And Off-Street Parking Facilities: Required yards may be
occupied by drives and off-street parking facilities when constructed in
accordance with the setback requirements of this District and in compliance
with Section
5A-5-7-3 of this Title and Chapter 11 of this Title.
      2.   Joint Parking: In the case of joint parking facilities, parking may
occur in the required yard without regard to the side lot line at the point of
the combination of the parcels, and in compliance with subsections
5A-11-2-1(B) and (C) of this Title. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-9-2-9: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS, BULK REGULATIONS:
The maximum floor area ratio for all buildings and structures in the O Office
District shall be 0.6, and the maximum height shall be two (2) stories, not to
exceed thirty feet (30'), when buildings are less than one hundred feet (100')
from a single- family residence district, and three (3) stories not to exceed
forty feet (40') in all other cases. Not more than fifty percent (50%) of the
net site area shall be covered by principal buildings and structures, and not
more than seventy five percent (75%) of the net site area shall be covered by
principal and accessory buildings and structures, and paved or impervious
areas. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-9-2-10: COMPLIANCE WITH THIS TITLE AND OTHER APPLICABLE TITLES OF THIS CODE
REQUIRED:
Properties located in this District shall comply with all applicable
regulations of this Title, as well as all other applicable regulations within
this Code. At a minimum, the following regulations must be adhered to:
   (A)   Landscape Requirements: All establishments shall comply with the
landscaping requirements of Chapter 10 of this Title.
   (B)   Off-Street Parking And Loading Requirements: All establishments shall
comply with the off-street parking and loading requirements of Chapter 11 of
this Title.
   (C)   Final Engineering: Provisions for storm water management and
engineering must be made in compliance with applicable codes.
   (D)   Performance Standards: Processes and equipment employed within the
Office District shall be limited to those which comply with the performance
standards of Chapter 12 of this Title.
   (E)   Sign Regulations: The signs on the property shall comply with the
Darien sign code (Title 4, Chapter 3 of this Code). (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-9-3: OR&I OFFICE, RESEARCH AND LIGHT INDUSTRY DISTRICT:
5A-9-3-1: INTENT:
The OR&I Office, Research and Light Industry District is intended to provide an
environment suitable for and limited to research and development activities,
engineering and testing activities, and related operations, office uses, and
warehousing, and also limited manufacturing uses that will not have an adverse
effect upon the environmental quality of the community.
No OR&I District shall be established by any new regulation unless the proposed
new district area, by itself or in conjunction with any contiguous territory
which either lies within the City and is already zoned OR&I or which lies
within an adjacent municipality and is in a similar zoning classification, is
at least six (6) acres. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-9-3-2: SITE PLAN APPROVAL PROCESS:
To ensure that the details of development of office and industrial areas for
authorized uses will be such that the operation of the use will not offend the
public interest, will be compatible and be planned in conformity with
surrounding uses and will not adversely affect the flow of traffic within the
community, a site plan shall be submitted. Refer to the approval process and
submittal requirements as outlined in Chapter 2 of this Title. (Ord. 0-03-00,
4-3-2000)
5A-9-3-3: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure, or land shall be used and no building or structure
shall be erected, altered, or enlarged which is arranged, intended, or designed
for other than one of the following uses:
   (A)   Laboratories, offices, and other facilities for research and
development including basic, applied, development, and technical services
conducted by or for any individual, organization, or concern, whether public or
private.
   (B)   Production of prototype products when limited to the scale reasonably
necessary for full investigation of the merits of a product, including
commercial viability.
   (C)   Pilot plants in which processes planned for use in production
elsewhere can be tested to the extent reasonably necessary for full
investigation of the merits of a product or process including commercial
viability.
   (D)   Engineering and testing laboratories and offices.
   (E)   Offices, business or professional.
   (F)   Clinics, medical and dental.
   (G)   Banks and financial institutions.
   (H)   Light industrial activities, including, but not limited to, electronic
and scientific precision instruments manufacture, cloth products manufacture,
light machinery production and assembly, printing and publishing.
   (I)   Warehouses, wholesale and storage facilities, but excluding motor
freight terminals.
   (J)   Civic buildings.
   (K)   Auxiliary retail and services. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-9-3-4: SPECIAL USES:
The following special uses may be permitted in specific situations in
accordance with the procedures outlined in section
5A-2-2-6 of this title, as appropriate:
   Brewing facilities, as defined in section
3-3-7-14, "Class N License", of this code.
   Garages for storage, repair and servicing of motor vehicles, including body
repair, painting and engine rebuilding.
   Height limit increases as specified in subsection
5A-9-3-9(A) of this chapter.
   Motor vehicle sales conducted in conjunction with an approved garage for
storage, repair, and servicing of motor vehicles, including body repair,
painting, and engine rebuilding.
   Planned unit developments (in accordance with the requirements of chapter 3
of this title). The primary use within a planned unit development shall be one
or more of the principal permitted uses, and may include any of the following
uses:
   Commercial services, business support services, motorist services, and
employee services.
   Cultural and recreational facilities, churches, auditoriums, and public
gathering places.
   Educational facilities.
   Health clubs.
   Kennels, indoor boarding only.
   Restaurants.
   Public and private utility facilities.
(Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000; amd. Ord. 0-04-02, 2-4-2002; Ord. 0-32-14, 11-3-2014;
Ord. 0-02-16, 1-18-2016; Ord. O-15-23, 10-2-2023)
5A-9-3-5: REQUIRED CONDITIONS:
The following conditions shall be required:
   (A)   No product shall be produced on the premises in a pilot plant
primarily for sale either directly or indirectly, except with respect to such
products, which, by their character, require production within a research and
development environment.
   (B)   Auxiliary retail and services shall be incidental to the principal
uses and shall be for the convenience of the tenants and employees of the
building, structure or district in which located. These uses shall be conducted
wholly within a building or structure and there shall be no exterior display of
the auxiliary function.
   (C)   Outside storage is not allowed. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-9-3-6: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum lot area on the OR&I district shall be two (2) acres, except for
planned unit developments which shall have a minimum land area of three (3)
acres. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-9-3-7: WIDTH REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum lot width in the OR&I district shall be one hundred fifty feet
(150'). (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-9-3-8: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum yards required in the OR&I district shall be as follows:
   (A)   Front And Corner Side Yards:
      1.   Abutting Or Adjoining A Nonresidential District:
         (a)   Yard Depth: There shall be a required front and corner side yard
of not less than fifty feet (50') in depth; provided, however, that such yard
shall be increased in depth by one foot (1') for each three feet (3') in height
by which any building on the lot exceeds a height of thirty feet (30').
         (b)   Off-Street Parking Facilities Setback: Off-street parking
facilities are not allowed within the first thirty feet (30') of the required
front or corner side yard.
      2.   Abutting Or Adjoining A Residential District:
         (a)   Yard Depth: There shall be a required front or corner side yard
of not less than fifty feet (50') in depth; provided, however, that such yard
shall be increased in depth by one foot (1') for each three feet (3') in height
by which any building on the lot exceeds a height of thirty feet (30'), and
shall be increased an additional twenty five feet (25') if it abuts to or
adjoins a lot in a residence district.
         (b)   Off-Street Parking Facilities Setback: Off-street parking
facilities are not allowed within the first thirty feet (30') of the required
front or corner side yard.
   (B)   Interior Side And Rear Yards:
      1.   Abutting Or Adjoining A Nonresidential District:
         (a)   Yard Depth: There shall be a required side and rear yard of not
less than thirty feet (30') in depth, except that such side and rear yard shall
be increased by one foot (1') for each three feet (3') in height that any
building on the lot exceeds a height of thirty feet (30').
         (b)   Off-Street Parking Facilities Setback: Off-street parking
facilities within an interior side or rear yard are not allowed within the
first twenty feet (20') of the required yard.
      2.   Abutting Or Adjoining A Residential District:
         (a)   Yard Depth: There shall be a required interior side and rear
yard of not less than thirty feet (30') in depth, except that such interior
side or rear yard shall be increased by one foot (1') for each three feet (3')
in height that any building on the lot exceeds a height of thirty feet (30'),
and shall be increased an additional forty five feet (45') if such rear or
interior side lot line abuts or adjoins a lot in a residence district.
         (b)   Off-Street Parking Facilities Setback: Off-street parking
facilities within an interior side or rear yard shall not be nearer than thirty
feet (30') from an adjoining lot in a residential district.
         (c)   Required Fence: Where a rear or interior side lot line in the
OR&I District coincides with an interior side or rear lot line in an adjacent
residential district, a fence of at least seventy five percent (75%) opacity
shall be provided within the yard along the property line. The height of such
fence shall be a minimum of six feet (6'), not to exceed eight feet (8').
   (C)   Accessory Structures: Accessory structures shall comply with yard and
setback requirements as prescribed in Section
5A-5-9 of this Title.
   (D)   Permitted Obstructions In Required Yard: Permitted obstructions in
required yards are allowed as described herein and as prescribed in Section
5A-5-7-3 of this Title and Chapter 11 of this Title including:
      1.   Drives And Off-Street Parking Facilities: Required yards may be
occupied by drives and off-street parking facilities when constructed in
accordance with the setback requirements of this District and in compliance
with Section
5A-5-7-3 of this Title and Chapter 11 of this Title.
      2.   Joint Parking: In the case of joint parking facilities, parking may
occur in the required yard without regard to the side lot line at the point of
the combination of the parcels, and in compliance with subsections
5A-11-2-1(B) and (C) of this Title. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-9-3-9: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS, BULK REGULATIONS:
The maximum height, floor area ratio, and other bulk regulations for all
buildings and structures in the OR&I District shall be as follows:
   (A)   The maximum height for all buildings and structures in the OR&I
District shall be forty feet (40'); however, this limit may be increased by
special use approval granted by the City Council, and after public hearings
before the Plan Commission. Any such increased height shall be reasonably
required for the particular research or development use to which the property
in question is to be put, and such increase shall not unduly conflict with the
intent of this Title or interfere with the rights of the public.
   (B)   The basic floor area ratio in the OR&I district shall be 0.6.
      1.   If seventy five percent (75%) or more of the required parking is
provided underground or within the building, then a floor area ratio premium of
0.20 shall be allowed.
      2.   Under a planned unit development, a floor area ratio premium of 0.1
will be granted for each additional five percent (5%) open space over the
minimum requirement of twenty five percent (25%) of the total net site area, up
to a maximum total of thirty five percent (35%).
   (C)   Not more than seventy five percent (75%) of the net site area shall be
covered by principal and accessory buildings and structures and paved or
impervious areas. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-9-3-10: COMPLIANCE WITH THIS TITLE AND OTHER APPLICABLE TITLES OF THIS CODE
REQUIRED:
Properties located in this district shall comply with all applicable
regulations of this title as well as all other applicable regulations with this
code. At a minimum, the following regulations must be adhered to:
   (A)   Landscape Requirements: All establishments shall comply with the
landscaping requirements of chapter 10 of this title.
   (B)   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: All establishments shall
comply with the off street parking and loading requirements of chapter 11 of
this title.
   (C)   Final Engineering: Provisions for stormwater management and
engineering must be made in compliance with applicable codes.
   (D)   Performance Standards: Processes and equipment employed within the
office, research and light industrial district shall be limited to those which
comply with the performance standards of chapter 12 of this title.
   (E)   Sign Regulations: The signs on the property shall comply with the
Darien sign code (title 4, chapter 3 of this code). (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-9-4: I-1 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT:
5A-9-4-1: INTENT:
The I-1 industrial district is intended to accommodate those industrial
activities which are most appropriate when remote from residential and
commercial development.
No I-1 district shall be established by any new regulation unless the proposed
new district area, by itself or in conjunction with any contiguous territory
which either lies within the city and is already zoned I-1, or which lies
within an adjacent municipality and is in a similar zoning classification, is
at least ten (10) acres. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-9-4-2: SITE PLAN APPROVAL PROCESS:
To ensure that the details of development of office and industrial areas for
authorized uses will be such that the operation of the use will not offend the
public interest, will be compatible and be planned in conformity with
surrounding uses and will not adversely affect the flow of traffic within the
community, a site plan shall be submitted. Refer to the approval process and
submittal requirements as outlined in chapter 2 of this title. (Ord. 0-03-00,
4-3-2000)
5A-9-4-3: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure, or land shall be used and no building or structure
shall be erected, altered, or enlarged, which is arranged, intended, or
designed for other than one of the following uses:
   Abrasive manufacture.
   Bakeries.
   Banks and financial institutions.
   Bottling companies.
   Brick and structural clay products manufacture.
   Building materials and product sales and storage.
   Cartage and express facilities.
   Civic buildings.
   Contractor and construction offices, shops, and yards.
   Dairy products processing.
   Dry cleaning establishments and laundries.
   Electronic and scientific precision instruments manufacture.
   Electroplating.
   Fuel and ice sales.
   Furniture, bedding, and carpet manufacture.
   General manufacturing and wholesaling.
   Glass products production and sales.
   Heavy machinery production.
   Light machinery production.
   Lithographing.
   Machine shops.
   Metal stamping.
   Newspaper publishing.
   Parking lots and garages.
   Pottery and ceramics manufacture.
   Printing and publishing establishments.
   Radio and television stations and studios.
   Schools, vocational or trade.
   Semitruck, semitrailer and bus sales lot.
   Stone products manufacture.
   Warehousing, storage (including ministorage) and distribution facilities.
   Wearing apparel manufacture.
   Woodworking. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000; amd. Ord. 0-34-10, 12-20-2010)
5A-9-4-4: SPECIAL USES:
The following special uses may be permitted in specific situations in
accordance with the procedures outlined in section
5A-2-2-6 of this title:
   Accessory outdoor storage (in compliance with section
5A-9-1-3 of this chapter).
   Airports and heliports.
   Automobile service stations, repair facilities, and car washes used in
conjunction with an automobile service station.
   Car wash, user operated (as a principal use).
   Car washes, drive-through (as a principal use).
   Chemical processing and manufacture.
   Eating and drinking establishments.
   Food manufacture, packaging and processing.
   Freight terminals.
   Garages for storage, repair and servicing of motor vehicles, including body
repair, painting and engine rebuilding.
   Grain storage and processing.
   Landfills.
   Paper products manufacture.
   Planned unit developments (in accordance with the requirements of chapter 3
of this title).
   Public and private utility facilities.
   Recreation and social facilities.
   Solar energy systems, large ground arrays.
   Stadiums, auditoriums and arenas. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000; amd. Ord. 0-13-
14, 5-5-2014; Ord. 0-03-18, 2-5-2018; Ord. 0-34-19, 12-16-2019)
5A-9-4-5: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum lot area in I-1 Districts shall be one acre, except for planned
unit developments, which shall have a minimum land area of three (3) acres.
(Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-9-4-6: WIDTH REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum width, at the building setback line, in the I-1 District shall be
one hundred feet (100'). (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-9-4-7: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum yards required for all buildings and structures in the I-1 District
shall be as follows:
   (A)   Front And Corner Side Yards:
      1.   Abutting Or Adjoining A Nonresidential District:
         (a)   Yard Depth: There shall be a required front and corner side yard
of not less than fifty feet (50') plus one foot (1') for every two feet (2') by
which the building height exceeds thirty feet (30').
         (b)   Off Street Parking Facilities Setback: Off street parking
facilities are not allowed within the first thirty feet (30') of the required
front and corner side yard.
      2.   Abutting Or Adjoining A Residential District:
         (a)   Yard Depth: There shall be a required front and corner side yard
of not less than fifty feet (50') plus one foot (1') for every two feet (2') by
which the building height exceeds thirty feet (30'), plus twenty five feet
(25') when such yard abuts or adjoins a residence district.
         (b)   Off Street Parking Facilities Setback: Off street parking
facilities are not allowed within the first thirty feet (30') of the required
front and corner side yard.
   (B)   Interior Side And Rear Yards:
      1.   Abutting Or Adjoining A Nonresidential District:
         (a)   Yard Depth: There shall be a required interior side and rear
yard of not less than fifteen feet (15') plus one foot (1') for every two feet
(2') by which the building height exceeds thirty feet (30').
         (b)   Off Street Parking Facilities Setback: Off street parking
facilities are not allowed within the first twenty feet (20') of the required
interior side and rear yard.
      2.   Abutting Or Adjoining A Residential District:
         (a)   Yard Depth: There shall be a required interior side and rear
front yard of not less than fifteen feet (15') plus one foot (1') for every two
feet (2') by which the building height exceeds thirty feet (30') plus sixty
feet (60') when such yard abuts or adjoins a residence district.
         (b)   Off Street Parking Facilities Setback: Off street parking
facilities are not allowed within the first thirty feet (30') of the required
interior side or rear yard.
         (c)   Required Fence: Where a rear or side or rear lot line in the I
District coincides with a side or rear lot line in an adjoining residential
district, a fence of at least seventy five percent (75%) opacity shall be
provided within the yard along the property line. The height of such fence
shall be a minimum of six feet (6') in height, not to exceed eight feet (8') in
height.
   (C)   Lot Line Development: Zero lot line development is permitted under a
planned unit development as regulated under chapter 3 of this title.
   (D)   Accessory Structures: Accessory structures shall comply with yard and
setback requirements as prescribed in section
5A-5-9 of this title.
   (E)   Permitted Obstructions In Required Yard: Permitted obstructions in
required yards are allowed as described herein and as prescribed in section
5A-5-7-3 and chapter 11 of this title including:
      1.   Drives And Off Street Parking Facilities: Required yards may be
occupied by drives and off street parking facilities when constructed in
accordance with the setback requirements of this district and in compliance
with section
5A-5-7-3 and chapter 11 of this title.
      2.   Joint Parking: In the case of joint parking facilities, parking may
occur in the required yard without regard to the side lot line at the point of
the combination of the parcels, and in compliance with subsections
5A-11-2-1(B) and (C) of this title. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-9-4-8: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS, BULK REGULATIONS:
The maximum height for all buildings and structures in the I-1 district shall
be thirty five feet (35'), and the maximum floor area ratio shall be 0.7. Not
more than sixty five percent (65%) of the net site area shall be covered by
principal buildings or structures, including accessory buildings or structures,
and not more than seventy five percent (75%) of the net site area shall be
covered by buildings, structures, accessory buildings, and structures, and
paved or impervious areas. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-9-4-9: COMPLIANCE WITH THIS TITLE AND OTHER APPLICABLE TITLES OF THIS CODE
REQUIRED:
Properties located in this district shall comply with all applicable
regulations of this title as well as all other applicable regulations with this
code. At a minimum, the following regulations must be adhered to:
   (A)   Landscape Requirements: All establishments shall comply with the
landscaping requirements of chapter 10 of this title.
   (B)   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: All establishments shall
comply with the off street parking and loading requirements of chapter 11 of
this title.
   (C)   Final Engineering: Provisions for stormwater management and
engineering must be made in compliance with applicable codes.
   (D)   Performance Standards: Processes and equipment employed within the
general industrial district shall be limited to those which comply with the
performance standards of chapter 12 of this title.
   (E)   Sign Regulations: The signs on the property shall comply with the
Darien sign code (title 4, chapter 3 of this code). (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
ARTICLE A. CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
5A-9A-1: Purpose And Intent
5A-9A-2: Definitions
5A-9A-3: Compliance With Applicable Laws
5A-9A-4: Certificate Of Zoning Compliance/State Law
5A-9A-5: Permitted Locations For Cannabis Dispensing Organizations
5A-9A-6: Use Standards/Regulations
5A-9A-7: Parking Requirements
5A-9A-8: Signage
5A-9A-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   (A)   The intent of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety and
welfare of the City and its residents by establishing regulations in regard to
the cultivation, processing, dispensing and transportation of cannabis within
the corporate limits of the City of Darien.
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to ensure new cannabis business
establishments are integrated with surrounding uses and are compatible in
character with the surrounding neighborhood or area of the zoning district in
which they are located.
   (C)   The zoning and regulations contemplated herein shall only apply to
cannabis business establishments licensed and operating under state law. (Ord.
0-34-19, 12-16-2019)
5A-9A-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms, wherever they appear in this chapter, shall be
construed as herein defined. Additionally, the City adopts all other
definitions set forth in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act and the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, as if fully set forth
herein.
                                      Marijuana, hashish, and other substances
                                      that are identified as including any
                                      parts of the plant Cannabis sativa and
                                      including derivatives or subspecies, such
                                      as indica, of all strains of cannabis,
                                      whether growing or not; the seeds
                                      thereof, the resin extracted from any
                                      part of the plant; and any compound,
                                      manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture,
                                      or preparation of the plant, its seeds or
                                      resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol
                                      (THC) and all other naturally produced
                                      cannabinol derivatives, whether produced
                                      directly or indirectly by extraction;
CANNABIS:                             however, "cannabis" does not include the
                                      mature stalks of the plant, fiber
                                      produced from the stalks, oil or cake
                                      made from the seeds of the plant, any
                                      other compound, manufacture, salt,
                                      derivative, mixture or preparation of the
                                      mature stalks (except resin extracted
                                      from it), fiber, oil or cake, or the
                                      sterilized seed of the plant that is
                                      incapable of germination. "Cannabis" does
                                      not include industrial hemp as defined
                                      and authorized under the Industrial Hemp
                                      Act. "Cannabis" also means cannabis
                                      flower, concentrate and cannabis-infused
                                      products.
                                      A cultivation center, craft grower,
CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT:      processing organization, infuser
                                      organization, dispensing organization or
                                      transporting organization.
                                      A facility operated by an organization or
                                      business that is licensed by the
                                      Department of Agriculture to cultivate,
                                      dry, cure, and package cannabis and
                                      perform other necessary activities to
                                      make cannabis available for sale at a
                                      dispensing organization or use at a
                                      processing organization. A craft grower
                                      may contain up to five thousand (5,000)
                                      square feet of canopy space on its
                                      premises for plants in the flowering
CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER:                state. The Department of Agriculture may
                                      authorize an increase or decrease of
                                      flowering stage cultivation space in
                                      increments of three thousand (3,000)
                                      square feet by rule based on market need,
                                      craft grower capacity, and the licensee's
                                      history of compliance or noncompliance
                                      with a maximum space of fourteen thousand
                                      (14,000) square feet and shall not be
                                      located within one thousand five hundred
                                      feet (1,500') of another craft grower or
                                      cultivation center.
                                      A facility operated by an organization or
                                      business that is licensed by the Illinois
                                      Department of Agriculture to cultivate,
                                      process, transport and perform necessary
                                      activities to provide cannabis and
CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER:          cannabis-infused products to licensed
                                      cannabis business establishment(s). A
                                      cultivation center may not contain more
                                      than two hundred ten thousand (210,000)
                                      square feet of canopy space for plants in
                                      the flowering stage for cultivation of
                                      cannabis as provided in state law.
                                      A facility operated by an organization or
                                      business that is licensed by the Illinois
                                      Department of Financial and Professional
                                      Regulation to acquire cannabis from
                                      licensed cannabis business establishments
CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION:     for the purpose of selling or dispensing
                                      cannabis, cannabis-infused products,
                                      cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
                                      supplies to purchasers or to qualified
                                      registered medical cannabis patients and
                                      caregivers.
                                      A facility operated by an organization or
                                      business that is licensed by the Illinois
CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR      Department of Agriculture to directly
INFUSER:                              incorporate cannabis or cannabis
                                      concentrate into a product formulations
                                      to produce a cannabis-infused product.
                                      A facility operated by an organization or
                                      business that is licensed by the Illinois
                                      Department of Agriculture to either
CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR   extract constituent chemicals or
PROCESSOR:                            compounds to produce cannabis concentrate
                                      or incorporate cannabis or cannabis
                                      concentrate into a product formulation to
                                      produce a cannabis product.
                                      An organization or business that is
                                      licensed by the Illinois Department of
CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR Agriculture to transport cannabis on
TRANSPORTER:                          behalf of a cannabis business
                                      establishment or a community college
                                      licensed under the Community College
                                      Cannabis Vocational Training Program.
                                      Smoking, eating, drinking, chewing,
CONSUME, CONSUMING OR CONSUMPTION:    applying topically or otherwise
                                      ingesting.
                                      A facility operated by an organization or
                                      business that is registered by the
                                      Illinois Department of Financial and
                                      Professional Regulation to acquire
                                      medical cannabis from a registered
                                      cultivation center for the purpose of
                                      dispensing cannabis, paraphernalia, or
                                      related supplies and educational
MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSING           materials to registered qualifying
ORGANIZATION:                         patients, individuals with a provisional
                                      registration for qualifying patient
                                      cardholder status, or an Opioid Pilot
                                      program participant as set forth in the
                                      Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis
                                      Program Act, 410 Illinois Compiled
                                      Statutes130/1, et seq., and as it may be
                                      amended from time to time, and the
                                      regulations promulgated thereunder.
                                      A facility operated by an organization or
                                      business that is registered by the
                                      Illinois Department of Agriculture to
                                      perform necessary activities to provide
                                      only registered medical cannabis
MEDICAL CULTIVATION CENTER:           dispensing organizations with usable
                                      medical cannabis as set forth in the
                                      Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis
                                      Program Act, 410 Illinois Compiled
                                      Statutes 130/1, et seq., and as it may be
                                      amended from time to time, and the
                                      regulations promulgated thereunder.
                                      The Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, 410
                                      Illinois Compiled Statutes 705/1, et
                                      seq., and the Compassionate Use of
STATE LAW/STATUTE:                    Medical Cannabis Program Act, 410
                                      Illinois Compiled Statutes 130/1, et
                                      seq., and as they be amended from time to
                                      time, and the regulations promulgated
                                      thereunder. (Ord. 0-34-19, 12-16-2019)
 
5A-9A-3: COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAWS:
Cannabis business establishments shall comply with all regulations provided in
the Cannabis regulation and Tax Act, 410 Illinois Compiled Statutes 705/1, et
seq., and the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, 410 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 130/1, et seq., and as they may be amended from time to time,
and the regulations promulgated thereunder, and the regulations provided below.
In the event that either or both of the Acts are amended, the more restrictive
of the state or local regulations shall apply; however, in the event the local
regulations conflict with state law, state law shall prevail. (Ord. 0-34-19,
12-16-2019)
5A-9A-4: CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE/STATE LAW:
A City-issued certificate of zoning compliance, state-issued license for the
specific cannabis business establishment, and a City-issued business license
are required prior to any cannabis business establishment is allowed to open
for business. (Ord. 0-34-19, 12-16-2019)
5A-9A-5: PERMITTED LOCATIONS FOR CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATIONS:
   (A)   Cannabis dispensing organizations shall be a permitted use in the
following locations:
75th Street and Lemont Road-Chestnut
Court Shopping Center (B-3 General       PINs: 09-29-300-008, 022/024
Business District)
75th Street east of Lyman Avenue in 2100
Block (Darien Towne Center) (B-3 General PINs: 09-29-400-032/033
Business District)
6800-6818 Route 83 (Darien Center) (B-
2 Community Shopping Center Business     PINs: 09-23-304-032/033, 035/036
District)
7900 S. Cass Avenue – Existing office  PIN: 09-28-412-009
building
8100 S. Cass Avenue – Outlot           PIN: 09-34-102-018
8100 S. Cass Avenue                      PIN: 09-34-102-019
Mid 8100 Block of Cass Avenue (PINS 3 &  PINs: 09-34-102-022/024
4)
8100 Block of Lemont Road                PINs: 09-32-106-007/008, 023/024, 035/
                                         036, 09-32-115-005/008
 
   (B)   Cannabis dispensing organizations shall be permitted only as a special
use in the following location:
      1.   7800 Lemont Road (OR & I Office, Research and Light Industry
District), PIN: 09-29-302-065, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   If there is a mixed use within one structure, the cannabis
dispensing organization shall not be allowed if the other business
establishments cater to children under the age of twenty-one (21).
         (b)   The petition for special use must meet the criteria for a
special use set forth in section
5A-2-2-6 of the Zoning Ordinance.
   (C)   Cannabis Dispensing Organizations shall not be allowed in the
following locations as either a permitted or special use:
75th Street, west of Lyman Avenue (2400 PIN: 09-29-301-034
block of Market Place of Darien)
Brookhaven Plaza – Existing Walgreens PIN: 09-28-402-021
Brookhaven Plaza – Interior           PIN: 09-28-402-026
Brookhaven Plaza – Existing Grocery   PINs: 09-28-402-024/025
Store
1225 Plainfield Road                    PINs: 09-28-410-001, 043
7300 Block of Route 83 between 73rd and PINs: 09-26-115-009, 018/019
74th Streets
2600 Block of 83rd Street               PIN: 09-32-116-008
8200 Block of Lemont Road               PIN: 09-32-106-030
Southwest Quadrant of Lemont Road and   PINs: 09-31-402-016/018, 09-31-415-002,
83rd Street                             004/016, 018/020
 
   (D)   Cannabis dispensing organizations shall be permitted as a special use
in all non-residential districts having properties not listed in subsections
(A) through (C), above, and subject to meeting the criteria for a special use
set forth in section
5A-2-2-6 of the Zoning Ordinance.
   (E)   The following cannabis business establishments shall be allowed as
permitted uses in the locations set forth below: cannabis craft grower;
cannabis cultivation center, including medical cannabis cultivation center;
cannabis infuser organization or infuser; processing organization or processor;
and transporting organization or transporter:
      1.   7800 Lemont Road (OR&I Office, Research and Light Industrial
District), PIN: 09-29-302-065.
      2.   Any property in the I-1 General Industrial District. (Ord. 0-34-19,
12-16-2019; amd. Ord. 0-09-20, 5-18-2020)
5A-9A-6: USE STANDARDS/REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Cannabis Dispensing Organizations: No more than one (1) license shall
be issued for a cannabis dispensing organization. This licensing limitation
does not apply to a medical cannabis dispensary that does not sell recreational
cannabis. The cannabis dispensing organization shall comply with the following:
      1.   The hours of operation may be between six o’clock (6:00) A.M. and
ten o’clock (10:00) P.M.
      2.   Operation of the dispensary is prohibited when video surveillance
equipment is inoperative.
      3.   Operation of the dispensary is prohibited when point-of-sale
equipment is inoperative.
      4.   Operation of the dispensary is prohibited when the State of
Illinois' cannabis electronic verification system is inoperative.
      5.   Operation of the dispensary is prohibited when there are fewer than
two (2) employees working.
      6.   No lounges or other methods of onsite consumption of cannabis shall
be allowed within a dispensary or smoke shop.
      7.   No cannabis lounges or cafes shall be allowed as a cannabis business
establishment within the City of Darien.
      8.   Cannabis may not be consumed within a cannabis dispensary for any
purpose and in any form including, but not limited to, samples, tastings,
edible products or by-products or by smoking or in the public right-of-way
within twenty five feet (25') of a cannabis dispensary. Signage must be posted
near the entrances and exits of the cannabis dispensary providing notice of
this policy.
   (B)   There are no business license restrictions in the OR&I Office,
Research and Light Industrial Zoning District and I-1 General Industrial Zoning
District for the following cannabis business establishments:
      1.   Cannabis craft grower;
      2.   Cannabis cultivation center, including medical cannabis cultivation
center;
      3.   Cannabis infuser organization or infuser;
      4.   Processing organization or processor;
      5.   Transporting organization or transporter. (Ord. 0-34-19, 12-16-2019)
5A-9A-7: PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
The cannabis business establishment shall be required to comply with the
parking requirements applicable to the underlying zoning district. (Ord. 0-34-
19, 12-16-2019)
5A-9A-8: SIGNAGE:
Signage shall comply with the standards of the underlying zoning district and
state law. (Ord. 0-34-19, 12-16-2019)
CHAPTER 10
LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
5A-10-1: Purpose
5A-10-2: General Provisions
5A-10-3: Standards
5A-10-4: Required Site Landscaping In Route 83 Corridor
5A-10-5: Perimeter Yard Landscape Material Requirements
5A-10-6: Parking Lot Requirements
5A-10-7: Foundation And Refuse Disposal Area Landscaping
5A-10-8: Right-Of-Way Landscaping
5A-10-9: Existing Vegetation
5A-10-10: Landscape Plan
5A-10-1: PURPOSE:
This Chapter establishes the requirement to provide landscape material in yards
and other designated open spaces. Providing landscape material reduces runoff
and provides visual relief to paved areas, and minimizes the harmful or
nuisance effects resulting from noise, heat and glare. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-10-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Applicability: The provisions of this Chapter apply to all
development, except detached single-family dwellings. Those portions of
property not devoted to buildings, pavement, or other permanent improvements,
shall be landscaped and well maintained. All areas of the site, including
street rights of way, which are not paved, shall be landscaped with trees,
shrubs, flowers, and/or grass to retard water runoff, restrict blowing trash
and litter, and deter improper and unsafe access and site use by the public.
"Landscaping" shall mean, at a minimum, the use of trees and "ground cover"
defined as grass, shrubs, or other material allowing water to seep through the
ground. Decorative rock shall not be considered landscape material.
   (B)   Additional Landscaping Encouraged: All requirements specified in this
Chapter are minimum requirements. The provision of landscaping in excess of
these requirements is encouraged and may be required when necessary to achieve
the purpose of these regulations.
   (C)   Minor Revisions To Approved Landscape Plans: Once a landscape plan has
been approved and a building permit issued, the Zoning Enforcement Officer may
authorize minor revisions to the approved plan including the substitution of
equivalent plantings and ground covers where such revisions do not diminish the
benefits of the approved plan. As such, revisions shall require the written
approval of the Zoning Enforcement Officer. A revision shall be considered
minor when there is no reduction in the quality or quantity of plant material,
no significant change in size or location of plant material, and new plants are
of the same general category and have the same general design characteristics
as the materials being replaced. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-10-3: STANDARDS:
   (A)   Plant Selection:
      1.   All plants shall conform to the "American Standard for Nursery
Stock" ANSI Z60.1, latest edition, and shall be installed according to the
current standards of the American Association of Nurserymen.
   (B)   Plants Installed On A Project Site: All plants installed on a project
site shall be hardy in USDA Zone 5.
   (C)   Plant Material Selected: Plant material used in conformance with the
provisions of this Chapter shall be selected to provide:
      1.   Climate hardiness of plant material;
      2.   Adaptability of the proposed plant material to the specific
conditions of the site (sun, shade, dry or wet soils, etc.);
      3.   Inclusion of native plant material where appropriate;
      4.   Plant materials that offer variety in leaf sizes and shapes and
overall heights;
      5.   Overall year-round ornamental effect.
   (D)   Healthy And Disease-Free: Plant material shall be healthy, free of
insects and diseases and physical damage (bark bruises, scrapes, cracked
branches, etc.).
   (E)   Minimum Planting Size: Unless otherwise specified, the minimum size
for plant materials installed to meet the requirements of this Chapter shall be
as follows:
      1.   Deciduous shade and street trees for all uses shall be fully
branched and have a minimum caliper of three inches (3") measured six inches
(6") from the ground.
      2.   Single-trunk ornamental trees shall be fully branched and have a
minimum caliper of two inches (2") measured six inches (6") from the ground.
Multi-trunk ornamental trees shall be a minimum six feet (6') in height.
      3.   Evergreen trees shall be a minimum of six feet (6') in height and
fully branched to the ground.
      4.   Shrubs shall be supplied in one gallon or larger containers, or
balled and burlapped. Low shrubs shall be a minimum twenty four inches (24") in
height at installation. Tall shrubs shall be a minimum thirty six inches (36")
in height at installation.
   (F)   Maintenance Of Landscaping:
      1.   Parking areas, building exteriors, and all other parts of the tract
visible from the public way, shall be maintained in a sightly, well-kept
condition. Landscaping shall be maintained in good condition so as to present a
healthy, neat, and orderly appearance, and shall be kept free from refuse and
debris.
      2.   Any dead or severely damaged or diseased plant material shall be
replaced by the owner, tenant, or their agent during the next planting season
for the particular plant or plants in question.
      3.   The branches of deciduous trees and shrubs may be selectively
thinned by up to one-third (1/3) in accordance with good horticultural
practice. In no case, however, shall trimming result in reducing the overall
size of the plant below that specified on the approved landscape plan.
   (G)   Ground Cover And Mulching Requirements:
      1.   Mulch: All trees and shrubs shall be mulched with a minimum of four
inch (4") depth shredded bark or other all-organic mulch. All flower and ground
cover beds shall be mulched with a minimum of two inch (2") depth shredded bark
or other all-organic mulch.
      2.   Distance From Fire Equipment: Only ground cover material or sod
shall be utilized within ten feet (10') of any fire hydrant or other fire
equipment.
      3.   Storm Water Control: Except where occupied by planting beds, mulched
beds, or storm water control facilities, all other pervious surface areas shall
be sodded. Storm water control facilities may be seeded with grass types
appropriate for such facilities.
   (H)   Obstructions: No plants shall be placed in such a way as to obstruct
pedestrian or vehicular traffic or cause damage to roadways, underground
utilities, or other public works. Species of trees known to cause damage to
roadways, underground utilities, or other public works shall not be used in an
area where such damage could occur. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-10-4: REQUIRED SITE LANDSCAPING IN ROUTE 83 CORRIDOR:
Each person required to obtain site plan approval pursuant to this Section
shall provide, as part of their application thereof, a landscape plan. Said
plan shall comply with Section
5A-10-10 of this Chapter as well as with the minimum standards set forth
herein:
   (A)   Standards For Required Landscaping: All landscaping plans required
hereunder shall be subject to the following standards:
      1.   Grassed Areas: All areas of the site plan not proposed to be
improved with structures, paved areas, walks, retention or detention areas,
lighting or other approved landscaping, shall be improved with Kentucky blue
grass sod.
      2.   Minimum Plantings: The applicant shall minimally provide one
approved planting for each seven hundred twenty five (725) square feet of gross
lot area. For each required planting, there shall be provided an additional ten
(10) square feet of approved ground cover adjacent thereto.
      3.   Approved Plantings And Ground Cover: The following shall constitute
approved plantings and ground covers for inclusion in the landscape plan
required hereunder:
         (a)   Shade Trees: Shade trees shall be provided and shall not be less
than three inches (3") in caliper measured six inches (6") from the ground. The
following trees are prohibited:
            Box elder
            Catalpa
            Mulberry
            Poplar
            Tree-of-heaven
            Willow
         (b)   Evergreens: Evergreens shall be provided and shall be a minimum
of six feet (6') in height.
         (c)   Ornamental Trees: Ornamental trees shall be provided and shall
not be less than two inches (2") in caliper measured six inches (6") from the
ground and not less than six feet (6') in height.
         (d)   Border Plantings And Foundation Plantings: Border plantings and
foundation plantings shall not be less than three feet (3') in height.
         (e)   Living Ground Coverages: Living ground coverages shall be
provided at a density sufficient to guarantee total coverage within two (2)
years of the date of the initial planting.
      4.   Prohibited Planting And Ground Coverings: The Zoning Enforcement
Officer may prohibit plantings and ground coverings or plantings not
specifically permitted herein, under circumstances where it can be demonstrated
to the satisfaction of the Zoning Enforcement Officer that adverse effects will
result from the inclusion of the proposed plantings and ground covering in the
landscape plan.
      5.   Credits: Credit against the requirements of this Section shall be
allowed for existing vegetation and other landscape features of a quality and
of a size as required herein, which the applicant proposes to preserve and/or
enhance on an equal basis. In all cases, the Zoning Enforcement Officer may
attach such conditions to the granting of the credits provided for herein, as
may serve to secure or enhance the continued well-being of all vegetation for
which credit is being given during the period of construction upon the site
covered by the plan.
   (B)   Application Of Standards To The Landscape Plan: In reviewing the
landscape plan, the Zoning Enforcement Officer may require such changes or
modifications in the types or location of permitted plantings and ground
coverings as the Zoning Enforcement Officer may deem reasonable to the end that
such required landscaping shall not adversely affect any improvement or
structure limited to required storm water management or detention or other
public utilities located upon the site. It shall be an objective of this
Section that the requirements and standards set forth herein shall be applied
in a manner so as to maximize the screening of proposed uses (including
parking, loading, and storage) from adjacent roads and highways and from
residential uses located upon adjacent parcels of property.
   (C)   Additional Requirements: All landscaping as required within this Title
shall be in addition to all other landscaping requirements contained within
this Code including, but not limited to, such provisions as parkway trees,
detention or retention areas, landscaping, and the landscaping of off-street
parking and loading locations. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-10-5: PERIMETER YARD LANDSCAPE MATERIAL REQUIREMENTS:
The selection of type and number of plants and other features is to be
determined by the petitioner's landscape architect or designer, provided that
by adding the points of selected materials, the total equals the number of
points required below:
   (A)   Front, Corner Side, Interior Side And Rear Yards: Except as provided
in subsection (B) of this Section at a minimum, front, corner side, interior
side and rear yards as set forth in the applicable zoning districts shall be
landscaped based on the following formula:
4.5 x (the foot length of the yard as measured at the lot line) = number of
points required for landscape materials
   (B)   Interior Side And Rear Yards For Nonresidentially Zoned Property
Adjoining Residentially Zoned Property: In lieu of the requirements in
subsection (A) of this Section, interior side and rear yards, as set forth in
the applicable zoning districts for nonresidentially zoned property adjoining
residentially zoned property, shall be based on the following formula:
6 x (the foot length of the yard as measured at the lot line) = number of
points required for landscape materials
   (C)   Additional Requirements In The B-3 District: In addition to the
landscaping and screening requirements set forth herein, where a side lot line
or rear lot line in a B-3 District coincides with a side or rear lot line in an
abutting residence district, the City may require that the site plan for the
development of said lot provide for a berm at least three feet (3') high to be
located in such rear or side yard.
   (D)   Point System: Plants and features are assigned the following point
system, which shall be used to calculate the number of different plant
materials and features required, in order to meet the total points required in
subsections (A) and (B) of this Section.
 
Shade trees          100 points
Evergreen trees      60 points
Ornamental trees     50 points
Tall shrubs (5 feet) 15 points
Low shrubs (3 feet)  10 points
 
(Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-10-6: PARKING LOT REQUIREMENTS:
All parking lots shall provide landscaping in the parking lot as follows:
   (A)   Landscaping Required Adjacent To Parking Spaces: Perimeter parking lot
landscape areas immediately adjacent to parking spaces shall be landscaped with
one shade tree and thirty seven (37) shrubs for each one hundred (100) linear
feet of parking.
   (B)   Landscaping Required Adjacent To Vehicle Maneuvering Areas: Perimeter
parking lot landscape areas immediately adjacent to vehicle maneuvering areas,
not including parking spaces, shall be considered perimeter yards and shall
conform to the requirements of Section
5A-10-5 of this Chapter, except that additional year- round plant materials
shall be planted to provide one hundred percent (100%) screening of mechanical
equipment and delivery areas.
   (C)   Landscape Islands Required For Parking Circulation Delineation:
      1.   Landscaping shall be provided in curbed landscape islands at the end
of each parking row for the full length of the parking stall. The width of the
landscape island shall be a minimum of nine feet (9') back-to-back, including
the curbs on both sides of the island. Single depth landscape islands shall
include one shade tree and sixteen (16) low shrubs. Double depth landscape
islands shall include two (2) shade trees and thirty two (32) low shrubs.
      2.   Landscape islands shall be provided to define driveways and
circulation patterns and shall be a minimum of nine feet (9') in width.
   (D)   Intermediate Landscape Islands Required: For parking lots with more
than fifteen (15) parking spaces, one intermediate landscape island shall be
provided for the full length of a parking space for every fifteen (15) parking
spaces. The width of the landscape island shall be nine feet (9'), including
the curbs on either side of the island. Single depth landscape islands shall
include one shade tree and sixteen (16) low shrubs. Double depth landscape
islands shall include two (2) shade trees and thirty two (32) low shrubs. Up to
fifty percent (50%) of the required intermediate landscape island area may be
combined to create center islands, located between two (2) bays of head-in
parking. These combined islands must be a minimum of nine feet (9') in width
and must extend the entire row of parking. Three (3) shade trees plus thirty
seven (37) low shrubs, excluding ground cover or turf, shall be planted for
each one hundred (100) linear feet of combined intermediate landscape islands.
In addition, all areas closer than three feet (3') to any curb of a combined
intermediate landscape area shall be mulched, sodded or planted with other
approved ground cover materials to avoid damage from overhanging car bumpers
and doors. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-10-7: FOUNDATION AND REFUSE DISPOSAL AREA LANDSCAPING:
   (A)   Foundation Landscaping: Foundation landscaping shall be provided on
all sides of a principal building and shall comply with the following:
      1.   Foundation landscaping shall be located in a planting bed a minimum
of ten feet (10') in width.
      2.   The required foundation landscaping area shall remain open and free
of all paving except where sidewalks and driveways that lead directly into the
building are necessary for ingress and egress. In no case shall the foundation
landscaping area be reduced to extend across less than fifty percent (50%) of
the building face.
      3.   Foundation landscaping shall be comprised of a combination of shade
trees, ornamental trees, evergreens, shrubs, and ground cover. Particular
attention should be paid toward screening mechanical equipment, air-
conditioning units, or any other visible outside equipment, service areas,
including dumpster pads, loading docks, bicycle parking areas, providing
transitions between the building and ground plane, visual breaks along
monotonous building facades, and enhancing walkways, entrance seating areas,
bus stops, or any other pedestrian areas.
   (B)   Refuse Disposal Facilities And Required Landscaping: Suitable areas
for the storage of trash shall generally be provided in the rear yard, subject
to approval by the Zoning Enforcement Officer, and shall be designed and
constructed as to allow no view of the trash storage from the street, to
prevent waste from blowing around the site or onto adjacent properties or
public rights of way, and to permit safe, easy removal of trash by truck or
hand, and shall comply with the following:
      1.   Refuse disposal facilities landscaping shall be provided on two (2)
sides of any required refuse disposal area immediately adjoining a building,
and on three (3) sides of any freestanding refuse disposal area.
      2.   Refuse disposal facilities landscaping shall be located in a
planting bed a minimum of ten feet (10') in width adjacent to any structure,
except that a planting bed, five feet (5') in width, shall be allowed when a
refuse disposal area is setback five feet (5') from a rear or side lot line in
compliance with Section
5A-5-9 of this Title.
      3.   The required refuse disposal facilities landscaping shall remain
open and free of all paving.
      4.   Refuse disposal facilities landscaping shall be comprised of a
combination of shade trees, ornamental trees, evergreens, shrubs, and ground
cover. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-10-8: RIGHT-OF-WAY LANDSCAPING:
All landscaping as required in this Chapter shall be in addition to all other
landscaping requirements contained within Section
5B-1-7 of this Code including, but not limited to, requirements for parkway
trees. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-10-9: EXISTING VEGETATION:
In the event that it can be demonstrated that existing vegetation meets the
intent of the landscape requirements of this Chapter, existing vegetation may
be credited for landscape materials required by this Chapter. Such vegetation
shall meet specifications for new plant materials and be located within the
area for which credit has been given. The developer shall note on the landscape
plan the landscape materials which would have been required if the existing
vegetation did not exist. If any of the vegetation dies, it shall be replaced
with the material identified on the plan. Said plant material shall be
guaranteed for one year from time of final engineering approval. (Ord. 0-03-00,
4-3-2000)
5A-10-10: LANDSCAPE PLAN:
   (A)   Landscape Plan Required: A landscape plan shall be required for all
exterior construction and development activity. Such landscape plan shall
conform to the requirements specified in this Chapter. Landscape plans must be
submitted to the Zoning Enforcement Officer and approved by the City Council as
part of the site plan approval process. The construction of detached single-
family residences shall be exempted from this requirement.
   (B)   Content Of Landscape Plan: All landscape plans submitted for approval
shall contain or have attached thereto the following information:
      1.   The location and dimensions of all existing and proposed structures,
parking lots and drives, roadways and rights of way, sidewalks, bicycle paths,
ground signs, refuse disposal areas, bicycle parking areas, fences,
freestanding electrical equipment, tot lots and other recreational facilities,
and other freestanding structural features as determined necessary by the
Zoning Enforcement Officer.
      2.   All required setback and yard lines.
      3.   The exact location, quantity, size and name, both botanical and
common names, of all proposed planting materials on-site and in the adjacent
right of way.
      4.   The location of existing buildings and structures on adjacent
property within one hundred feet (100') of the site.
      5.   Existing and proposed grading of the site, including proposed
berming, indicating contours, at one foot (1') intervals.
      6.   Specification of the type and boundaries of all proposed ground
cover.
      7.   Elevations of all fences proposed for location on the site.
      8.   Elevations, cross sections, and other details as determined
necessary by the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
      9.   The location, quantity, size and name, both botanical and common
names, of all existing deciduous trees five inches (5") in caliper or greater
and evergreen trees fifteen feet (15') in height or greater.
      10.   Details for any underground sprinkling system that may be utilized.
      11.   The following legend shall be provided on all landscape plans:
PERIMETER YARD LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS
Yard                         Common Name Botanical Qty Species Total Points
                                         Name          Points*
Front                        1.
(Linear Footage) * (Factor)  2.
= Points Required            3.
    * 4.5 =            Etc.
    Totals Front Yard
Corner Side                  1.
(Linear Footage) * (Factor)  2.
= Points Required            3.
    * 4.5 =            Etc.
    Totals Corner Side Yard
Interior Side
(Linear Footage) * (Factor)
= Points Required            1.
    * 4.5 =            2.
OR                           3.
    * 6.0 =            Etc.
(6.0 when adjacent
residential)
    Totals Interior Side
Yard
Rear
(Linear Footage) * (Factor)
= Points Required            1.
    * 4.5 =            2.
OR                           3.
    * 6.0 =            Etc.
(6.0 when adjacent
residential)
    Totals Rear Yard
*Shade Tree = 100 points; Evergreen Tree = 60 points; Ornamental Tree = 50
points; Tall Shrub (5 feet) = 15 points; Low Shrub (3 feet) = 10 points
(Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
CHAPTER 11
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
5A-11-1: Scope And Application
5A-11-1-1: Scope Of Regulations
5A-11-1-2: Existing Parking And Loading Facilities
5A-11-1-3: Permissive Parking And Loading Facilities
5A-11-1-4: Submission Of Plot Plan
5A-11-1-5: Time Of Construction Of Off-Street Parking And Loading Facilities
5A-11-2: Off-Street Parking
5A-11-2-1: General Requirements
5A-11-2-2: Off-Street Parking Requirements
5A-11-2-3: Accessible Parking Requirements
5A-11-3: Driveway Requirements
5A-11-4: Off-Street Loading
5A-11-4-1: General Requirements
5A-11-4-2: Off-Street Loading Requirements
5A-11-5: Off-Street Parking And Loading Table; Parking And Loading Classes
5A-11-1: SCOPE AND APPLICATION:
5A-11-1-1: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
The off-street parking and loading provisions of this Title shall apply as
follows:
   (A)   For all buildings and structures erected and all uses of land
established after the effective date hereof, or any amendment hereto, accessory
off-street parking and loading facilities shall be provided as required by the
regulations which follow. However, where a building permit for a building or
structure has been issued in accordance with law prior to the effective date
hereof, or any amendment hereto, and completion is accomplished within eighteen
(18) months of the effective date hereof, or any amendment hereto, said
building permit may be completed and off- street parking and loading facilities
in the amounts required for the issuance of said building permit may be
provided, all in accordance with the approved plans on the basis of which the
building permit has been issued, and further, may, upon completion, be occupied
under a certificate of occupancy by the use for which originally designated.
   (B)   When the existing intensity of use of any building, structure, or
parcel of land constructed before or after the effective date hereof is
increased by the addition of dwelling units, gross floor area, design,
capacity, employees, or other units of measurement specified herein for
required off-street parking or loading facilities, off-street parking and
loading facilities as required herein shall be provided for such increase in
intensity of use. When the intensity of use of any building, structure, or
parcel of land is increased as specified above, the off-street parking and
loading requirements of this Title shall be applied to the entire building,
structure, or parcel of land and off-street parking and loading facilities
shall be provided in accordance with the off-street parking and loading
requirements of this Title.
   (C)   When the existing intensity of use of any building, structure, or
parcel of land constructed before or after the effective date hereof shall be
decreased through the reduction of dwelling units, gross floor area, design
capacity, employees, or other units of measurement specified herein for
required off- street parking or loading facilities, and further, when the
decrease would result in a requirement for fewer total off-street parking or
loading spaces, off-street parking and loading facilities may be reduced
accordingly, provided that existing off-street parking and loading facilities
shall be so decreased only when the facilities remaining will at least equal or
exceed the off-street parking or loading requirements resulting from the
application of the standards of this Title to the entire building, structure,
or parcel of land as modified.
   (D)   Whenever the existing use of a building or structure constructed
before or after the effective date hereof shall thereafter be changed to a new
use, off-street parking, or loading facilities shall be provided as required
for such new use. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-11-1-2: EXISTING PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES:
Accessory off-street parking and loading facilities in existence on the
effective date hereof, or any amendment hereto, shall not hereafter be reduced
below, or if already less than, shall not be further reduced below, the
requirements for a similar new building, structure, or use of land under the
provisions of this Title. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-11-1-3: PERMISSIVE PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES:
Nothing in this Title shall be deemed to prevent the voluntary establishment of
off-street parking or loading facilities to serve any existing use of land or
buildings; provided, that all regulations herein governing the location, design
and operation of such facilities are adhered to.
However, once any such off-street parking or loading facilities are
established, they shall be decreased only when the facilities remaining will at
least equal or exceed the off-street parking or loading requirements resulting
from application of the standards of this Title to the entire use of the
building, structure, or parcel of land as modified. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-11-1-4: SUBMISSION OF PLOT PLAN:
Any application for a certificate of occupancy and building permit shall
include therewith a plot plan, drawn to scale and fully dimensioned, indicating
all off-street parking or loading facilities to be provided in compliance with
this Title. Data shall also be provided specifying the use of the building,
structure, or parcel of land, and the number of dwelling units, gross floor
area, design capacity, number of employees, or other units of measurement
specified herein for determining the number of off-street parking or loading
spaces required by this Title. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-11-1-5: TIME OF CONSTRUCTION OF OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES:
Off-street parking and loading facilities, as required by this Title, shall be
constructed at the time of erection, establishment, alteration, or enlargement
of the building, structure, or use of land they are required to serve. No
certificate of occupancy shall be issued by the Zoning Enforcement Officer
until the required parking and loading facilities have been installed. (Ord. 0-
03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-11-2: OFF-STREET PARKING:
5A-11-2-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Location:
      1.   All Uses: All off-street parking spaces required to serve a
building, structure, or use erected or established after the effective date
hereof or any amendment hereto, or subsequently altered or enlarged, shall be
located on the same lot as the building, structure, or use served, or, except
for single-family and two-family residences, within three hundred feet (300')
walking distance of such building, structure, or parcel of land if said spaces
are located in the same zoning district.
      2.   Nonconforming Parking Lots: Owners of property nonconforming as to
off-street parking, except for single-family and two-family residences, who
elect to provide off-street parking and become conforming, may locate such
parking on land other than the lot on which the building, structure, or use is
located; provided, that such parking shall be located within three hundred feet
(300') walking distance of said building, structure, or parcel of land.
Provided, however, that the owners of such property may only provide off-street
parking for a nonresidential use within a residential area after having
received approval to do so by the City Council.
   (B)   Joint Parking Facilities:
      1.   Off-street parking facilities for separate uses may be provided
collectively, if the total number of spaces so provided is not less than the
sum of the separate requirements governing location of accessory off-street
parking spaces in relation to the use served, and is located not more than
three hundred feet (300') walking distance from all of the buildings,
structures, and uses which such parking is intended to serve.
      2.   Further, no off-street parking space or portion thereof shall serve
as a required space for more than one use unless a variance is granted pursuant
to the provisions of Section
5A-2-2-3 of this Title.
      3.   In the case of joint parking facilities, parking may occur in the
required yard without regard to side lot line or rear lot line at the point of
combination of the parcels.
   (C)   Control Of Off-Site Or Joint Parking Facilities:
      1.   Off-Site Facilities: In cases where the required off-street parking
facilities are permitted on land other than the lot on which the building,
structure, or use served is located, such facilities shall be in the same
possession, whether by deed or long-term lease, as the lot occupied by the
building, structure, or use to which the parking facilities are accessory. A
copy of the deed or lease shall be filed with the City Clerk.
   In addition, appropriate covenants shall be filed for record in the office
of the county recorder as follows:
         (a)   For the lot on which the required parking is located, covenants
shall be filed by the owner of said lot, providing that such lot shall provide
and be maintained for the required number of off street parking spaces during
the existence of the building, structure, or use for which such parking is
intended.
         (b)   For the lot on which the building, structure, or use is located,
covenants shall be filed by the owner of said lot, providing that the building
or structure, shall be used or the use maintained only for as long as the
required number of off street parking spaces are provided, in accordance with
this title or any amendment hereto. Such covenants shall be reviewed by the
city attorney as to content and form.
      2.   Joint Facilities: In cases where the required off street parking
facilities are collectively provided and used, written covenants and easements
assuring their retention, maintenance, and use for such purposes shall be
executed by the parties concerned. Such covenants and easements shall be filed
with the city clerk, reviewed as to content and form by the city attorney, and
filed for record in the office of the county recorder.
   (D)   Access: Except on lots accommodating single-family dwellings, each off
street parking space shall open directly upon an aisle or driveway of such
width and design as to provide safe and efficient means of vehicular access to
such parking space as provided in subsection (F) of this section. All off
street parking facilities shall be designed with appropriate means of vehicular
access to a street in a manner which will least interfere with traffic movement
and as may be provided in the applicable zoning district regulations or other
ordinances of the city. All driveways shall conform to all applicable driveway
specifications adopted by the city.
   (E)   Computation: When the determination of the number of off street
parking spaces required by this title results in a requirement of a fractional
space, any fraction of less than one- half (1/2) may be disregarded, while a
fraction of one-half (1/2) or more shall be counted as one parking space. Off
street parking spaces required on an employee basis shall be based on the
maximum number of employees on duty or residing, or both, on the premises at
any one time. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
   (F)   Design And Maintenance:
      1.   Plan: The design and construction of parking lots or areas shall be
subject to the standards specified by this title, and to other such standards
in this title, or other ordinances of the city, as may be adopted by the city
council from time to time.
      2.   Character: Accessory off street parking spaces may be open to the
sky or enclosed in a building, provided, that enclosed parking spaces shall
have a vertical clearance of at least seven feet (7').
      3.   Parking Space, Stall, And Aisle Dimensions And Arrangements: The
stall and aisle dimensions and arrangements of all parking areas shall meet the
following criteria:
         (a)   The minimum stall width shall be nine feet (9').
         (b)   The minimum stall length shall be eighteen feet (18'), except
for parallel parking which shall be twenty four feet (24') in length.
         (c)   The minimum aisle width shall be dependent on the parking angle
of the parking stall and on whether aisle traffic is one- way or two-way. All
two-way aisles shall be twenty four feet (24') in width. Parking shall be
designed in compliance with the following table:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7457706f7aaf2d7e388d2de0fb2caab75b34723e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2098.gif]
 
Legend
a   Parking angle
b   Stall width
c   Depth to wall or curb
d   Aisle width
e   Module width (wall to wall or curb to curb)
 
a             b           c                   d           e
Parking Angle Stall Width Space Depth To Wall Aisle Width Module Wall To Wall
45 degrees    9'          17'4"               13'         47'8"
60 degrees    9'          19'                 17'         55'
90 degrees    9'          18'                 24'         60'
 
(Ord. 0-01-13, 2-4-2013)
      4.   Surfacing And Striping: All open off street parking facilities and
maneuvering areas, including parking spaces accessory to a single-family
dwelling, shall be constructed with asphalt, concrete or other approved hard
surface paver material in compliance with the engineering specifications as
approved by city council, and as may be amended from time to time. All off
street parking shall be restricted to a hard surface required by this section.
Residential driveways nonconforming to the surfacing requirement as of the date
of this title, may be continued until such time as the principal structure is
completely reconstructed. (Ord. 0-38-08, 10-6-2008)
      5.   Lighting: Any lighting used to illuminate off street parking areas
shall be designed in accordance with the standards of the Illuminating
Engineers Society (IES). The lighting shall be directed away from adjoining
properties and public streets in such a way so as not to create a nuisance.
(See section
5A-12-4-3 of this title.)
      6.   Storm Drainage: All parking lots or areas shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with the city stormwater control regulations and
subject to the review and recommendations of the city engineer.
      7.   Barrier Curbs Required: All parking lots shall be provided with six
inch (6") barrier curbs. Wheel stops are not allowed in parking lots.
      8.   Landscape Requirements: All parking lots must be designed in
compliance with chapter 10 of this title.
   (G)   Overnight Parking Restrictions: There shall be no overnight parking of
semitruck, semitrailer, or any truck weighing over eight thousand (8,000)
pounds on private property, or on public right of way, with the exception of
truck parking areas permitted by the zoning district and construction trailers
permitted by the zoning enforcement officer.
   (H)   Display Of Vehicles For Sale: Off street parking facilities shall not
be used for the parking of a motor vehicle or vehicles for the purpose of
displaying the same for sale unless the primary use of the property on which
the parking facility is located is in the business of selling or leasing used
or new motor vehicles; however, this section shall not prohibit an owner or
occupant of property in areas zoned residential from displaying vehicles for
sale on the property's off street parking facilities provided the vehicle is
owned by the owner or occupant of the residential property. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-
2000)
5A-11-2-2: OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
Off street parking spaces shall be provided in accordance with the specific
parking and loading classes as hereinafter set forth in the off street parking
and loading table, found in section
5A-11-5 of this chapter. The zoning enforcement officer or designee shall
determine the parking and loading class of a use which, though not contained by
name in a parking and loading class, is deemed to be similar in nature and
clearly compatible with the listed uses. Parking spaces for accessory uses not
specifically enumerated within a parking and loading class shall be assumed to
be included in the principal (permitted or special) use requirement. (Ord. 0-
03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-11-2-3: ACCESSIBLE PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
Accessible parking spaces shall be provided in compliance with the Illinois
accessibility code 1 . The standards described below are consistent with the
Illinois accessibility code. For all requirements regarding accessible
(handicapped) parking spaces, the above referenced code supersedes and adds to
the standards established by this title.
   (A)   Size: Each accessible parking stall shall consist of parking spaces
measuring eight feet (8') in width and an adjacent access aisle, measuring
eight feet (8') in width, diagonally striped with a high quality yellow paint
recommended by the paint manufacturer for pavement striping. The standard
length of an accessible parking stall shall be the same as all other parking
stalls.
   (B)   Number: All parking lots required by this title shall provide the
following number of accessible parking stalls:
Number Of Parking Spaces Provided Required Number Of Accessible Spaces
1 to 20                           1
Number Of Parking Spaces Provided Required Number Of Accessible Spaces
1   to 20                         1
21  to 50                         2
51  to 75                         3
76  to 100                        4
101 to 150                        5
151 to 200                        6
201 to 300                        7
301 to 400                        8
401 to 500                        9
501 to 1,000                      2 percent
Over 1,000                        20 + 1 per over 1,000
 
   (C)   Access: The required access aisle must have a smooth transition with
adjacent walk surfaces, either by joining at a common level of use or a curb
ramp.
   (D)   Identification: Each accessible parking space shall be equipped with a
sign which complies with section 11-301 of the Illinois rules of the road.
Signs shall be vertically mounted on a post or a wall, at front center of the
parking space, no more than five feet (5') horizontally from the front of the
parking space, and set four feet (4') from finished grade of the parking space
to the bottom of the sign. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. 410 ILCS 25/1.
5A-11-3: DRIVEWAY REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Driveways And Access Points In Residence Districts:
      1.   Pavement Width: The pavement width shall not exceed twenty four feet
(24') within a public street right of way, except that the driveway may include
a flair at the street not to exceed a radius of three feet (3'). Within the
front or corner side yard, the pavement width shall not exceed a total width of
thirty five feet (35'), except for circular driveways permitted by this
section. A ribbon along both sides of a driveway, not to exceed eighteen inches
(18") on a side, consisting of paver brick, decorative stone or similar
material, shall be permitted, so long as the setback requirements are met.
      2.   Multiple Curb Cuts For Circular Drives On Interior Lots: Two (2)
curb cuts forming one circular drive shall be allowed on interior residential
lots that contain a minimum of one hundred feet (100') of street frontage. The
width of circular drives on private property shall not exceed thirteen feet
(13') in pavement width, except for any pavement that provides direct access
into an attached garage.
      3.   Multiple Curb Cuts On Corner Lots: On corner lots, two (2) curb cuts
shall be allowed on lots with a minimum of one hundred feet (100') of street
frontage along both the front and corner side lot lines. The curb cuts may
either be unconnected with one curb on each street frontage or may be connected
to form one circular drive pavement. No curb cut may be closer than fifty feet
(50') from any intersecting street right of way line (40 feet on cul-de-sacs
and dead end streets). A third curb cut shall be allowed on the secondary
street frontage of a corner lot, only if it is set back a minimum of one
hundred fifty feet (150') from the intersecting street right of way lines.
      4.   Minimum Distance From Property Line: The minimum distance of any
driveway used for a single-family attached or detached dwelling shall be five
feet (5') from any property line and cannot be located in a platted easement.
For other uses (permitted or requiring special use approval) in the residential
districts, the separation between the property line and the driveway shall be a
minimum of twenty feet (20'). Residential driveways nonconforming to the
setback requirements as of the date of this title may be continued until such
time as the principal structure is completely reconstructed, subject to a site
inspection by city staff to assess site drainage conditions prior to the
issuance of a permit. Joint driveways may occur in the required yard without
regard to the side lot line or rear lot line at the point of combination of the
parcels. (Ord. 0-38-08, 10-6-2008)
   (B)   Driveways And Access Points In Business, Office And Industrial
Districts:
      1.   Location Of Access Points: Points of vehicular ingress and egress
from the site shall be limited to the adjacent major and/or secondary
thoroughfares only and site plans shall be reviewed by the zoning enforcement
officer for location and design of curb cuts and driveways. Such design and
location shall at least comply with the following standards, unless otherwise
recommended by the city engineer, for proper and safe ingress and egress from
the site:
         (a)   Maximum Number Of Driveways: Driveways for each piece of
property shall be limited to one in the first one hundred fifty front feet
(150') of street frontage and one per additional one hundred front feet (100')
of street frontage.
         (b)   Minimum Width: The minimum width of driveways at the property
line shall be as follows: driveways designed for one-way traffic shall be at
least twelve feet (12') and no greater than fifteen feet (15') wide; driveways
designed for two-way traffic shall be at least twenty four feet (24') and no
greater than thirty feet (30') wide. Any minimum width not in compliance with
these regulations shall require the approval of the City Engineer.
         (c)   Minimum Distance From Property Line: The minimum distance of any
driveway from any property line shall be regulated within the off-street
parking facilities setback in each zoning district, with the exception of joint
parking facilities.
         (d)   Minimum Distance Between Driveways:
            (1)   Business Districts: The minimum distance between driveways
shall be fifty feet (50') measured from the two (2) closest driveway curb cuts.
            (2)   Office And Industrial Districts: The minimum distance between
driveways on a site or lot shall be two hundred feet (200') measured from the
two (2) closest driveway curb cuts.
         (e)   Minimum Distance From A Street Intersection:
            (1)   Business Districts: The minimum distance of a driveway from a
street intersection shall be fifty feet (50') measured from the corner of the
intersection of the street right of way to the nearest end of the curb cut.
            (2)   Office And Industrial Districts: The minimum distance of a
driveway into the site from a street intersection shall be one hundred feet
(100') measured from the point of intersection of the curb lines of the street
rights of way to the nearest end of the driveway curb cuts.
         (f)   Minimum Distance From Crosswalk: The distance from the end of
the driveway curb cut to the nearest crosswalk shall not be less than ten feet
(10').
         (g)   Maximum Curb Radii: All driveways shall have curb radii not less
than fifteen feet (15') nor more than necessary to accommodate the largest
vehicle which must maneuver on-site as shown by the appropriate truck turning
template.
         (h)   Angle Between Curb Line And Center Of Driveway: The angle
between the curb line of the street and the center line of the driveway shall
not be less than sixty degrees (60°).
         (i)   Medians: Where a driveway is permitted into a street having a
barrier median, a break shall not be made in that median unless competent
engineering judgment indicates that left turn bays can be constructed and
signalized if necessary, and further, that no hazard or impediment is created
for through traffic.
         (j)   Common Driveways:
            (1)   Business Districts: Business establishments adjacent to,
adjoining, or integrated in a shopping center, or cluster commercial
facilities, shall use common driveways with other business establishments in
that center. However, driveways from adjoining properties shall not be cross-
connected if the result is to effectively increase the number of driveways
available to the properties if their frontage were not summed.
            (2)   Office And Industrial Districts: Office-industrial
establishments adjacent to, or integrated in an industrial park or similar
cluster facilities, shall use a common access with other office-industrial
establishments in that park or cluster facility. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-11-4: OFF-STREET LOADING:
5A-11-4-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Location: All required off-street loading facilities shall be located
on the same lot as the use served except where central loading facilities are
provided, in accordance with the provisions of subsection (B) of this Section.
   (B)   Central Loading: Central loading facilities may be substituted for
off-street loading berths on the individual lots, provided the following
conditions are fulfilled:
      1.   Each lot served shall have direct access to the central loading area
without crossing streets.
      2.   The total number of off-street loading berths provided shall meet
the minimum requirements herein specified, based on the sum of the several
types of uses served. Area of types of uses may be totaled before computing
number of loading berths.
      3.   No lot served shall be more than five hundred feet (500') removed
from the central loading area.
      4.   Written covenants and easements assuring the retention, maintenance,
and use of the loading facilities for such purposes shall be executed by the
parties concerned. Such covenants and easements shall be filed with the City
Clerk, reviewed as to content and form by the City Attorney, and filed for
record in the office of the County Recorder.
   (C)   Yard Requirements For Off-Street Loading Facilities:
      1.   Off-street loading facilities which are located in a building or
structure, shall comply with the yard requirements of the zoning district in
which located.
      2.   Unenclosed off-street loading facilities shall comply with the
following yard requirements:
         (a)   Loading facilities shall not be located in any front yard or
corner side yard.
         (b)   Loading facilities shall be permitted in the interior side yard
or rear yard, provided they shall not be located within twenty feet (20') of
any property line, except in the case of central loading facilities in which
case the area of a required interior side yard may be occupied by off-street
loading facilities.
         (c)   Whenever an off-street loading facility abuts or adjoins a lot
in a residence district, the off-street loading facility shall not be nearer
than thirty feet (30') from such property line.
   (D)   Size: Unless otherwise specified, a required off-street loading berth
shall be at least twelve feet in width by at least thirty feet in length (12' x
30'), exclusive of aisle and maneuvering space, and shall have a vertical
clearance of at least fourteen feet (14').
   (E)   Access: Each required off-street loading berth shall be designed with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street in a manner which will least
interfere with traffic movements as may be provided in the applicable zoning
district regulations or other ordinances of the City.
   (F)   Computation: When determination of the number of off-street loading
berths required by this Title results in a requirement of a fractional berth,
any fraction of less than one-half (1/2) may be disregarded while a fraction of
one-half (1/2) or more, shall be counted as one loading berth.
   (G)   Screening And Landscaping: Off-street loading facilities adjoining a
right of way or residential property shall be screened with fences, hedges or
walls of at least seventy five percent (75%) opacity all year long along such
property lines. Lighting of the facilities shall be directed away from
surrounding property and public streets in such a way so as not to create a
nuisance.
   (H)   Surfacing: All open off-street loading berths shall be improved with a
compacted macadam base, not less than seven inches (7") thick, surfaced with
not less than two inches (2") of asphaltic concrete or some comparable all-
weather dustless material.
   (I)   Utilization: Space allocated to any off-street loading use shall not,
while so allocated, be used to satisfy the space requirements for any off-
street parking facilities or portions thereof.
   (J)   Minimum Facilities: Uses for which off-street loading facilities are
required herein, but which are located in buildings of less floor area than the
minimum prescribed for such required facilities, shall be provided with
adequate receiving facilities, accessible by motor vehicle off any adjacent
service drive on the same lot. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-11-4-2: OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS:
Off-street loading berths shall be provided in accordance with the specific
parking and loading classes as hereinafter set forth in the off-street parking
and loading table found in Section
5A-11-5 of this Chapter. The Zoning Enforcement Officer or designee shall
determine the parking and loading class of a use which, though not contained by
name in a parking and loading class, is deemed to be similar in nature and
clearly compatible with the listed uses. Loading berths for accessory uses not
specifically enumerated within a parking and loading class shall be assumed to
be included in the principal (permitted or special) use requirement. (Ord. 0-
03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-11-5: OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING TABLE; PARKING AND LOADING CLASSES:
Parking And Loading Classes:
 
No. 1 Residential Uses
No. 2 Manufacture and Industrial Uses
No. 3 Transportation, Communication and Utilities
No. 4 Retail and Wholesale Trade
No. 5 Services and Institutions
No. 6 Cultural Uses, Entertainment and Sports
 
All uses listed are pertinent to this Zoning Ordinance only to the extent they
are permitted or special uses herein provided or otherwise allowed to operate.
Parking And Loading Class No. 1
RESIDENTIAL USES
 Parking Requirements Loading Requirements
Parking And Loading Class No. 1
RESIDENTIAL USES
                         Parking Requirements       Loading Requirements
Dwelling, single-family                              
Dwelling, two-family      2 spaces per dwelling unit None
Limited apartment          
dwellings
Dwelling, multi-family    2 spaces per dwelling unit
Apartment for the elderly 1 space per dwelling unit  For buildings containing
Apartment hotel           plus 1 per employee        20,000 to 200,000 square
                                                     feet of gross floor area,
Dormitory                 5 spaces per 1,000 square  1 off-street loading berth
Fraternity                feet of gross floor area   shall be provided, plus 1
                                                     additional loading berth
Convent                   2 spaces per 1,000 square  for each additional
Rectory                   feet of gross floor area   200,000 square feet of
                                                     gross floor area or
                          1 space per each 4 beds    fraction thereof
Convalescent homes        based on the rated design
Nursing homes             capacity plus 1 for each
                          vehicle used in the
                          conduct of enterprise
 
 
Parking And Loading Class No. 2
MANUFACTURE AND INDUSTRIAL USES
                          Parking Requirements       Loading Requirements
Abrasive manufacture
Asphalt products
Bakery
Boot and shoe manufacture
Bottling companies
Brick and structural clay
products manufacturing
Chemical processing
Contractor and             1 space for each 1,000     For buildings containing
construction offices       square feet of gross floor 7,000 to 40,000 square
Dairying                   area                       feet
Dry-cleaning plant
Electronic, scientific and
precision instrument
manufacturing
Fuel and ice plants
General manufacturing
Laboratory, research and
testing
Laundry
Light machinery
production, appliances and
business machines
Machine shop
Mining operations
Paper products
Pilot plants
Pottery and ceramics
manufacture
Printing and publishing    1 space for each 1,000     For buildings containing
establishments             square feet of gross floor 7,000 to 40,000 square
Restricted production and  area                       feet
repair
Stone products manufacture
Steel manufacture
Wearing apparel
manufacture
Any similar production,
processing, cleaning,
servicing, testing and
repair
Warehousing, storage, and  1 space for each 3,000      
distribution facilities    square feet
 
Parking And Loading Class No. 3
TRANSPORTATION, COMMUNICATION AND UTILITIES
 Parking Requirements Loading Requirements
Parking And Loading Class No. 3
TRANSPORTATION, COMMUNICATION AND UTILITIES
                          Parking Requirements       Loading Requirements
                           Spaces as required by the
Airport                    Zoning Enforcement
Bus terminal               Officer, or his designee,
Heliport                   after review by the Plan
Railroad passenger         Commission plus additional
terminal                   parking spaces for retail
                           service uses
Air freight terminal
Newspaper distribution     2 spaces per each 3
facility                   employees                  1 loading berth shall be
Railroad freight terminal                             provided for buildings
Microwave relay towers
Radar installations and
towers
Radio and television       1 space per employee
stations and towers
Parking garage
Parking lot
Telegraph office           4 spaces per 1,000 square
Telephone operator and     feet of gross floor area
business office
Public and private utility 2 spaces per each 3
installation               employees
Auto graveyards                                       1 loading berth shall be
Dumps                      2 spaces per each employee provided for buildings
Junkyards
Sanitary landfill
Cartage and express        2 spaces for each 3        For buildings containing
facilities                 employees                  5,000 to 40,000 square
Motor freight terminal                                feet
 
Parking And Loading Class No. 4
RETAIL AND WHOLESALE TRADE
 Parking Requirements Loading Requirements
Parking And Loading Class No. 4
RETAIL AND WHOLESALE TRADE
                                                 Parking Requirements                                      Loading
                                                                                                            Requirements
Air-conditioning and heating contractor                                                                     For
Antique store                                                                                               buildings
Apparel store                                                                                               7,000 to
Art and school supply store                       4 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area        60,000
Art store, retail                                                                                           square feet
Art studio                                                                                                  of gross
Auto service station                                                                                        floor area
Bakery, retail
Battery and tire shop
Book and stationery store
Building material sales and storage
Camera and photographic store
Carpet and floor covering store                   4 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area
Clothing and costume rental
Contractor's yards and offices                                                                              For
Delicatessen                                                                                                buildings
Department store                                                                                            7,000 to
Drugstore                                                                                                   60,000
Eating Establishments:                                                                                     square feet
   Dining areas (indoor and outdoor tables and 1 space/3 seats                                           of gross
chairs)                                                                                                     floor area
   Sit down serving counter                    1 space/2 seats
   Carryout serving counter                    1 space/15 square feet of waiting area
   Banquet rooms                               1 space/3 seats feet or 1 space/15 square feet of dining
                                                  area
   With drive-through                          15 stacking spaces   Parking Requirements   Loading
                                                  Requirements
Drinking Establishments:                          1 space/2 seats                                           For
   Indoor and outdoor table and chair areas                                                              buildings
                                                                                                            7,000 to
                                                                                                            60,000
   Bar and standing area                       1 space/7 square feet                                     square feet
                                                                                                            of gross
                                                                                                            floor area

Electrical showrooms and shops
Florist
Garden supply, tool and seed store
Garage for the storage, servicing and repair of
motor vehicles                                                                                              For
Gift stores                                                                                                 buildings
Greenhouse and nursery                                                                                      7,000 to
Grocery or food store                             4 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area        60,000
Hardwood store                                                                                              square feet
Hobby shop                                                                                                  of gross
Home furnishings                                                                                            floor area
Ice cream stores
Jewelry stores
Liquor stores
Machinery sales
Meat and fish market
Musical instruments sales and services
Paint, glass and wallpaper store
Phonograph, record and music store
Photography studio
Picture framing
Plumbing showroom and shops                       4 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area        For
Sewing machine sales and service                                                                            buildings
Shoe store                                                                                                  7,000 to
Sporting goods store                                                                                        60,000
Toy store                                                                                                   square feet
Trailer, boat and camper sales                                                                              of gross
Any similar retail use                                                                                      floor area
Shopping center or mixed-use building under       4 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area
200,000 square feet

Shopping center or mixed-use building over        5 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
200,000 square feet                               area   Parking Requirements   Loading Requirements


Household appliance store
Furniture store                                   2 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area        For
Motor vehicles sales                                                                                        buildings
                                                                                                            7,000 to
                                                                                                            60,000
Drive-in facilities for uses in Class 4, unless   20 reservoir/stacking parking spaces or 5 parking spaces  square feet
otherwise noted                                   per drive-in window, whichever is greater                 of gross
                                                                                                            floor area
 
Parking And Loading Class No. 5
SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONS
 Parking Requirements Loading Requirements
Parking And Loading Class No. 5
SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONS
                                               Parking Requirements                                     Loading
                                                                                                         Requirements
Blueprinting
Business machine repair
Employment agency                               4 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area       1 loading
Machinery repair                                                                                         berth shall
Photocopying                                                                                             be provided
                                                                                                         for
                                                                                                         buildings
                                                                                                         containing
                                                                                                         10,000 to
                                                                                                         100,000
                                                                                                         square feet
                                                                                                         of gross
                                                                                                         floor area
                                                                                                         plus 1
                                                                                                         additional
Bank                                                                                                     loading
Civic buildings                                 4 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area       berth for
                                                                                                         each
                                                                                                         additional
                                                                                                         100,000
                                                                                                         square feet
                                                                                                         of gross
                                                                                                         floor area
                                                                                                         or fraction
                                                                                                         thereof



Currency exchange
Financial establishments                        4 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area       1 loading
Savings and loan associations                                                                            berth shall
Offices - business or professional              5 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area       be provided
Drive-in facilities for uses listed in Parking  20 reservoir (stacking) spaces or 4 reservoir spaces per for
Class No. 5 unless otherwise noted              drive-in teller window and/or automated teller machine,  buildings
                                                whichever is greater                                     containing
                                                                                                         10,000 to
                                                                                                         100,000
                                                                                                         square feet
                                                                                                         of gross
Animal kennel and hospitals                                                                              floor area
Catering                                                                                                 plus 1
Cemetery, crematory, mausoleum                                                                           additional
Clothes pressing                                                                                         loading
Dry-cleaning facility                                                                                    berth for
Funeral parlor                                  4 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area       each
Laundry - hand                                                                                           additional
Laundry - receiving station                                                                              100,000
Laundry - self-service                                                                                   square feet
Machinery service                                                                                        of gross
                                                                                                         floor area
                                                                                                         or fraction
                                                                                                         thereof


Shop and clothing repair
Tailor shop                                     4 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area
Ticket agency                                                                                            1 loading
Any repair, rental and servicing establishment                                                           berth shall
Car Washes:                                                                                             be provided
   Drive-through car wash accessory to a gas 8 stacking spaces                                        for
station                                                                                                  buildings
   Automated car wash (as a principal use)   40 stacking spaces                                       containing
   User operated car wash                    5 stacking spaces per bay                                10,000 to
Barbershop                                      4 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area       100,000
Beauty shop                                                                                              square feet
Hotel                                           1 space per each dwelling unit plus 1 space per each     of gross
Motel                                           employee plus additional parking spaces for the retail/  floor area
                                                service/entertainment areas                              plus 1
                                                                                                         additional
                                                                                                         loading
                                                                                                         berth for
                                                                                                         each
                                                                                                         additional
                                                1.5 spaces per each 1,000 square feet of gross floor     100,000
Health or medical institution or sanitarium     area   Parking Requirements   Loading Requirements square feet
                                                                                                         of gross
                                                                                                         floor area
                                                                                                         or fraction
                                                                                                         thereof


Dental clinic or office                         5 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area
Medical clinic or office                                                                                 1 loading
Childcare center                                                                                         berth shall
Daycare center                                  2 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area       be provided
Nursery school                                                                                           for
Preschool                                                                                                buildings
Boarding school                                                                                          containing
Elementary school                               1 space per employee                                     10,000 to
Junior high school                                                                                       100,000
Senior high school                              1 space per each employee plus 1 space per each 6        square feet
                                                students based on rated design capacity                  of gross
College                                         1 space per each 2 employees plus 1 space per each       floor area
Junior college                                  student based on rated design capacity                   plus 1
University                                                                                               additional
                                                                                                         loading
                                                                                                         berth for
                                                                                                         each
                                                                                                         additional
Business school                                 1 space per employee plus 1 space per each student based 100,000
Commercial school                               on rated design capacity                                 square feet
Trade school                                                                                             of gross
                                                                                                         floor area
                                                                                                         or fraction
                                                                                                         thereof

Vocational school                               1 space per employee plus 1 space per each student based
                                                on rated design capacity                                 1 loading
Dance school                                    1 space per each employee plus 1 space per each 3        berth shall
Music school                                    students based on rated design capacity                  be provided
Vocal school                                                                                             for
Chapel                                                                                                   buildings
Church                                          1 space per 3 seats                                      containing
Synagogue                                                                                                10,000 to
Temple                                                                                                   100,000
                                                                                                         square feet
                                                                                                         of gross
                                                                                                         floor area
                                                                                                         plus 1
                                                                                                         additional
                                                                                                         loading
                                                                                                         berth for
Philanthropic and charitable institutions       1 space per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area        each
Religious retreat                                                                                       additional
                                                                                                         100,000
                                                                                                         square feet
                                                                                                         of gross
                                                                                                         floor area
                                                                                                         or fraction
                                                                                                         thereof
 
Parking And Loading Class No. 6
CULTURAL USES, ENTERTAINMENT AND SPORTS
 Parking Requirements Loading Requirements
Parking And Loading Class No. 6
CULTURAL USES, ENTERTAINMENT AND SPORTS
                          Parking Requirements       Loading Requirements
Art gallery
Historic site              2 spaces per 1,000 square
Library                    feet of gross floor area
Museum
Community center                                      1 loading berth shall be
Convention hall            1 space per 1,000 square   provided for buildings
Exhibition hall            feet of gross floor area   containing 10,000 to
Meeting hall                                          100,000 square feet of
Recreation building                                   gross floor area, plus 1
Amphitheater                                          additional loading berth
Auditorium                 1 space per 4 seats based  for each additional
Fairgrounds                on rated capacity          100,000 square feet of
Field house                                           gross floor area or
Theater                    1 space per 21/2 seats     fraction thereof
                           based on rated capacity
                           Reservoir parking equal to
Drive-in theater           10 percent of rated
                           capacity of use
Amusement park             3 spaces per 1,000 square
Golf, driving range        feet of gross floor area
Golf, miniature            plus 3 spaces per 1,000
Kiddie park                square feet of gross land
                           area
Billiard hall              10 spaces per 1,000 square
Bowling alley              feet of gross floor area   1 loading berth shall be
Pool hall                  plus 3 spaces per 1,000    provided for buildings
Skating rink               square feet of gross land  containing 10,000 to
                           area                       100,000 square feet of
Golf course, full size     60 spaces per 9 holes      gross floor area, plus 1
Golf course, Par 3         (regular, gold)            additional loading berth
Golf course, pitch and     4 spaces per 9 holes (Par  for each additional
putt                       3)                         100,000 square feet of
Camping grounds            1 space per 2,000 square   gross floor area or
Outdoor rifle, trap, skeet feet of gross land area    fraction thereof
shooting range
Athletic field
Clubs or lodges, private   1 space per 5,000 square
Grounds of recreational    feet of gross land area
clubs and community
centers, noncommercial
Public parks and           1 space per 5,000 square
playgrounds                feet of gross land area    1 loading berth shall be
Tennis courts and club                                provided for buildings
                                                      containing 10,000 to
                                                      100,000 square feet of
                                                      gross floor area, plus 1
                           1 space per 5,000 square   additional loading berth
Swimming pool              feet of gross land area    for each additional
                           plus 1 space per 75 square 100,000 square feet of
                           feet of water area         gross floor area or
                                                      fraction thereof
 
(Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
CHAPTER 12
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
5A-12-1: Intent
5A-12-2: Compliance
5A-12-3: Measurement
5A-12-4: Standards
5A-12-4-1: Noise
5A-12-4-2: Odors
5A-12-4-3: Glare Or Heat
5A-12-4-4: Vibration
5A-12-4-5: Smoke And Particulate Matter
5A-12-4-6: Gases, Toxic Or Noxious Matter
5A-12-4-7: Fire And Explosion Hazard
5A-12-4-8: Register Of Pollutants
5A-12-4-9: Waste
5A-12-1: INTENT:
It is the intent of this chapter to provide that commercial, research and
related activities, and industrial activities shall be established and
maintained with proper appearance from streets and adjoining properties and to
provide that each such permitted use shall be a good neighbor to adjoining
properties by the control of emission of noise, odor, glare, vibration, smoke,
dust, liquid wastes, and other nuisances.
The architectural and engineering plans shall bear the signature and seal of
the appropriate qualified professional and the certification that all
performance standards will be complied with based upon the submitted plans and
documents. The city reserves the right to conduct its own investigation to
determine compliance with the performance standards. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-12-2: COMPLIANCE:
The performance standards set forth in section
5A-12-4 of this chapter shall be complied with and any use which fails to
comply with these standards shall be in violation of this code and be subject
to penalties provided for such violation. It shall be deemed a violation of
this chapter for any qualified professional to falsely certify as to the
compliance of submitted plans and documents with the performance standards
specified herein. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-12-3: MEASUREMENT:
Each measurable standard shall be measured at the appropriate indicated
location. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-12-4: STANDARDS:
5A-12-4-1: NOISE:
At no point on the property line on which the operation is located shall the
sound intensity level of any individual operation or plant (other than the
operation of motor vehicles or other transportation vehicles) exceed the
decibel levels in the designated octave bands as hereinafter shown in the
following table:
MAXIMUM PERMITTED SOUND LEVEL (DECIBELS)
Octave Bank (Frequency) Industrial Or Commercial Industrial, Commercial Or
Cycles Per Sound        Adjoining Nonresidential Residence Adjoining Residence
                        District                 Properties
Octave Bank (Frequency) Industrial Or Commercial Industrial, Commercial Or
Cycles Per Sound        Adjoining Nonresidential Residence Adjoining Residence
                        District                 Properties
0 to 75                 79                       72
75 to 150               74                       67
150 to 300              66                       59
300 to 600              59                       52
600 to 1,200            53                       46
1,200 to 2,400          47                       42
2,400 to 4,800          41                       38
Above 4,800             39                       38
 
Noise testing is to be accomplished at the property line of the noise emitting
source, with an octave band analyzer operated by an independently employed
person, trained, and skilled in the operation of this equipment. (Ord. 0-35-13,
12-2-2013)
5A-12-4-2: ODORS:
The emission of odorous matter in such quantities as to be readily detectable
at any point along a property line or which is unwholesome, offensive, harmful,
or injurious to the public health, comfort, or welfare is prohibited. The
measurement of the threshold odor shall be in accordance with the American
Society for Testing and Materials Method D1391-57 "Standard Method for
Measurement of Odor in Atmosphere (Dilution Method)" (Philadelphia: American
Society of Testing and Materials, 1957). Detailed plans for the prevention of
odors crossing property lines may be required before the issuance of a building
permit. A minimum of seven (7) persons shall serve on the panel involved in
this testing. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-12-4-3: GLARE OR HEAT:
Any operation producing intense glare or heat shall be performed within a
completely enclosed building in such manner as not to create a public nuisance
or hazard along any property line. Exposed sources of light shall be controlled
so that direct or indirect illumination from any source within the property
line shall not cause illumination in excess of three (3) foot-candles in
residential areas. The measurement of glare or light shall be made at the
property line using a light meter operated by a trained operator through an
independent testing agency. Any lights used for exterior illumination shall be
planned, erected, and maintained to direct light away from adjoining properties
or public rights of way.
   (A)   Lighting: Exterior lighting proposed for use on the site shall be
planned, erected, and maintained so the light is confined to the property and
will not cast direct glare or light upon adjacent properties or public rights
of way. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-12-4-4: VIBRATION:
Any operation or activity shall not cause earthborne vibrations in excess of
the values stipulated below. Column A shall apply at or beyond the property
line; column B shall apply at or beyond a residence district boundary line.
Vibration shall be expressed as displacement in inches and shall be measured
with a three (3) component measuring system:
 
                             A                     B
Frequency (Cycles Per Second) Displacement (Inches) Displacement (Inches)
0 to 10                       0.0008                0.0004
10 to 20                      0.0005                0.0002
20 to 30                      0.0002                0.0001
30 to 40                      0.0002                0.0001
40 and over                   0.0001                0.0001
 
Impact vibrations, that are discrete pulses that do not exceed one hundred
(100) impulses per minute, shall not cause in excess of twice the displacement
values above.
Any use or portion thereof creating intense earth-shaking vibrations such as
are caused by heavy drop forges or heavy hydraulic surges, shall be set back at
least five hundred feet (500') from all property lines. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-
2000)
5A-12-4-5: SMOKE AND PARTICULATE MATTER:
In addition to the performance standards specified herein, the emission of
smoke or particulate matter in such manner or quantity as to endanger or be
detrimental to the public health, safety, comfort, or welfare is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance.
For the purpose of grading the density of smoke, the Ringelmann Chart,
published and used by the United States Bureau of Mines, shall be employed. The
evaluation of smoke by the Ringelmann Chart must be accomplished by a State of
Illinois Certified Smoke Reader. Particulate matter size shall be determined by
measurement through a 325-mesh sieve which will, in fact, accumulate all +44
micron particles and prove helpful in the measurement process. The emission of
smoke or particulate matter of a density greater than No. 2 on the Ringelmann
Chart is prohibited, except as otherwise provided herein.
The emission from all sources within any property of particulate matter
containing more than ten percent (10%) by weight of particles having a
particulate diameter larger than forty four (44) microns is prohibited. Dust
and other types of air pollution, borne by the wind from such sources as
storage areas, yards, roads and the like within property boundaries, shall be
kept to a minimum by appropriate landscaping, paving, oiling, fencing, or other
acceptable means. Emission of particulate matter from such sources in excess of
the weight limitation herein specified is hereby prohibited.
The emission of more than ten (10) smoke units per hour per stack is
prohibited, including smoke of a density in excess of Ringelmann No. 2.
However, during one 1-hour period in each day, each stack may emit up to twenty
(20) smoke units when blowing soot or cleaning fires. Only during fire cleaning
periods, however, shall smoke of Ringelmann No. 3 be permitted, and then for
not more than four (4) minutes.
The rate of emission of particulate matter from all sources within the
boundaries of any property shall not exceed a net figure of one pound per acre
during any one hour, after deducting from the gross hourly emission per acre
the corrective factors set forth in the following tables for height, velocity
and temperature of emission, respectively.
Determination of the total net rate of emission of particulate matter within
the boundaries of any property shall be made as follows:
   (A)   Determine the maximum emission in pounds per hour from each source of
emission and divide this figure by the number of acres of property area,
thereby obtaining the gross hourly rate of emission in pounds per acre.
   (B)   From each gross hourly rate of emission derived in subsection (A) of
this Section, deduct the appropriate correction factor (interpolating as
required) for height, velocity and temperature of emission set forth in the
following corresponding tables, thereby obtaining the net rate of emission from
all sources of emission within the boundaries of the property. Such total shall
not exceed one pound per acre of property area during any one hour:
ALLOWANCE FOR HEIGHT OF EMISSION1
Height Of Emission Correction
Above Grade (Feet) Pounds/Hours/Acre
Height Of Emission Correction
Above Grade (Feet) Pounds/Hours/Acre
50                 0.01
100                0.06
150                0.10
200                0.16
300                0.30
400                0.50
 
ALLOWANCE FOR VELOCITY OF EMISSION1
Exit Velocity     Correction
(Feet Per Second) Pounds/Hours/Acre
Exit Velocity     Correction
(Feet Per Second) Pounds/Hours/Acre
0                 0.00
20                0.03
40                0.09
60                0.16
80                0.24
100               0.50
 
ALLOWANCE FOR TEMPERATURES OF EMISSION1
Temperature Of Emission Correction
(Degrees Fahrenheit)    Pounds/Hours/Acre
Temperature Of Emission Correction
(Degrees Fahrenheit)    Pounds/Hours/Acre
200                     0.000
300                     0.001
400                     0.002
500                     0.003
1,000                   0.01
1,500                   0.04
2,000                   0.10
 
NOTE TO TABLES:
   1.   Interpolate for intermediate value not shown in table.
(Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-12-4-6: GASES, TOXIC OR NOXIOUS MATTER:
No use shall, for any period of time, discharge across the boundaries of the
property wherein it is located gases, toxic or noxious matter in such
concentrations as to endanger or be detrimental to the public health, safety,
comfort or welfare or cause injury or damage to property or business. Detailed
plans for the elimination of fumes or gases shall be required before the
issuance of a building permit. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-12-4-7: FIRE AND EXPLOSION HAZARD:
The manufacture, storage, processing, and use in any manner of all materials
shall be done in accordance with the Darien building code and in conformity
with the National Fire Protection Association's National Fire Codes; the
Building Officials and Code Administrators International, Inc.'s Building,
Mechanical, and Fire Prevention Codes; State and Federal Departments of
Transportation; and all other applicable local, State, and Federal standards.
The manufacture, storage, processing, and use in any manner of a material that
exceeds any or all of the following criteria as determined by Standard 325M
Fire Hazard Properties of Flammable Liquids, Gases, and Volatile Solids of the
National Fire Protection Association's National Fire Codes is prohibited:
   (A)   If the degree of health hazard is rated greater than three (3).
   (B)   If the degree of reactivity is rated greater than one.
   (C)   If the sum of the health hazard, flammability, and reactivity
classifications is greater than seven (7).
If a material is not evaluated by the above standard, it shall not be assumed
that it is approved. The material in question shall be evaluated on the basis
of its physical and chemical properties. Certification by an independent
testing laboratory may be required. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000)
5A-12-4-8: REGISTER OF POLLUTANTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to install, erect, construct, reconstruct,
alter or add to, or cause to be installed, erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered or added to, any fuel burning, combustion or process equipment or
device or any equipment pertaining thereto, or any stack or chimney connected
therewith, within the City excepting domestic heating plants, domestic refuse-
burning equipment, locomotives and internal combustion engines, in the City,
until there has been filed in duplicate by the owner, contractor, installer or
other person, or his agent with the City, an application for a permit
accompanied by a complete listing of emissions into the atmosphere that result
from the operation of the aforesaid equipment or processes, both as to kind and
quantity and, in addition thereto a listing of the type and capacity of the
equipment used for the collection, absorption, or suppression of each and an
estimate of its efficiency, and until a permit therefor has been granted by the
Corporate Authorities of the City. Said submitted register of pollutants shall
be accompanied by an affidavit of a qualified person stating that it is
complete and correct and that the proper operation of the plant or process, as
designed, will not result in any violation of this title. Businesses in the O,
OR&I, and I-1 Districts that apply for a business license shall certify that
they will not store, utilize, process, or manufacture hazardous chemicals in
quantities subject to the tier II reporting requirements as defined by USEPA,
except for the utilization of lead-acid batteries to power heavy duty equipment
such as forklifts. Any business that has a hazardous chemical release or
violation of Federal, State, or local regulations shall notify the City
immediately. (Ord. 0-13-19, 4-1-2019)
5A-12-4-9: WASTE:
All sewage and industrial wastes shall be treated and disposed of in such
manner as to comply with the water quality standards applicable to the
classification assigned to the receiving waters by the City, the State of
Illinois, and the United States Environmental Protection Agency. Approval by
the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency of all plans for waste disposal
facilities shall be required before issuance of any building permit. (Ord. 0-
03-00, 4-3-2000)
CHAPTER 13
ZONING DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
5A-13-1: Definitions
5A-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms, wherever they occur in this title, shall be
construed as herein defined:
ABUT:                     To have a common property line or district line.
                          (A)   An "accessory building, structure or use" is one which:
                             1.   Is subordinate and incidental to and serves a principal building or structure
                          or a principal use;
                             2.   Is subordinate in area, extent or purpose to the principal building or
                          structure, or the principal use served;
                             3.   Contributes to the comfort, convenience or necessity of occupants of the
                          principal building or structure or the principal use served; and
                             4.   Is located on the same lot as the principal building or structure, or the
                          principal use served with the single exception of such accessory off- street parking
                          facilities as are permitted to locate elsewhere than on the same lot with the building
                          or use served.
                          (B)   An "accessory building or use" includes, but is not limited to, the following:
                             1.   A garden house, and private greenhouse;
                             2.   A shed, garage or building for domestic storage;
                             3.   Storage of merchandise normally carried in stock on the same lot with any
                          retail service or business use, unless such storage is excluded by the district
                          regulations;
                             4.   Storage of goods used in or produced by manufacturing activities on the same
                          lot or parcel of ground with such activities unless such storage is excluded by the
                          district regulations;
                             5.   Swimming pool, tennis court or other athletic facilities for private use by
                          the occupant and his guest;
ACCESSORY BUILDING,          6.   Off-street motor car parking areas, and loading and unloading facilities;
STRUCTURE OR USE:            7.   Carports;
                             8.   Public utility facilities, including telephone, electric, gas, water and sewer
                          lines, their supports, and incidental equipment;
                             9.   A residential unit for the family of one person and his or her family where
                          such occupancy is accessory to a business which requires a full-time watchman,
                          attendant or residential professional; and
                             10.   Solar energy system. A device that collects solar energy from the sun and
                          converts it into thermal, mechanical, or electrical energy.
                                (a)   Solar energy system, building- mounted: Has solar collectors that are
                          panels or building-integrated components that are attached to walls or roof of a
                          building.
                                (b)   Solar energy system, building- integrated: Has solar collectors that are
                          within roof shingles,
                             skylights, shading devices, or other similar architectural components and are not
                          panels.
                                (c)   Flush-mounted solar panels: Are solar collector panels that are mounted
                          flat on a wall or roof typically with six inches (6") more or less between the entire
                          panel and wall or roof surface to allow for mounting brackets, piping, wiring, and
                          stormwater drainage.
                                (d)   Solar energy system, large ground array: Has solar collectors mounted on
                          poles or racks that are attached to the ground that typically occupy a large portion
                          of a lot or lots and is intended to serve one or more buildings or uses on the same
                          lot or other lots or is sold back to the electric utility provider.
ADDITION:                 An extension or increase in floor area or height of a building or structure.
ADJACENT:                 To lie near or close to; in the neighborhood or vicinity of.
ADJOINING:                Touching or contiguous.
                          Any area of land which is used or intended for use for the landing and taking off of
AIRPORT:                  aircraft, and any appurtenant areas which are used or intended for use for airport
                          buildings or other airport facilities located thereon.
ALTERATION:               Any change in size, shape, occupancy or use of a building or structure.
                          An enterprise which provides one or more forms of entertainment including, but not
                          limited to, bowling alleys, sports complexes, pool halls, dance halls, skating rinks
AMUSEMENT ESTABLISHMENT:  and establishments utilizing more than four (4) automatic amusement devices as either:
                          a) an accessory use to a restaurant offering complete meals; or b) an accessory use to
                          an approved amusement establishment.
ANIMAL HOSPITAL OR        A building, structure or portion thereof designed or used for the care, observation or
CLINIC:                   treatment of domestic animals, but not including kennels.
                          A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family structure which is arranged, designed,
APARTMENT:                used or intended to be used as a single housekeeping unit. Complete kitchen facilities
                          (sink and cooking and storage facilities), permanently installed, must always be
                          included for each apartment.
APARTMENT HOTEL:          See definition of Hotel, Apartment.
                          An open area, other than a street, used for the display or sale or rental of new or
AUTOMOBILE AND TRAILER    used automobiles or trailers and where no repair work is done except for minor
SALES AREA:               incidental repair of automobiles or trailers to be displayed, sold or rented on the
                          premises.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR         A building, structure or portion thereof designed or used for the general repair,
FACILITY:                 engine rebuilding, reconditioning, collision service or painting of motor vehicles.
                          A building, structure or portion thereof, or a parcel of land used for the following:
                          (A)    Dispensing, sale or offering for sale at retail directly to the public,
                          gasoline stored only in underground tanks, kerosene, lubricating oil or grease for
                          operation of motor vehicles.
                          (B)    Sale and installation of minor accessories and general repair of motor
                          vehicles, but not including engine rebuilding, collision service or the painting of
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE        motor vehicles; and
STATION:                  (C)    Washing of motor vehicles where no chain conveyor, blower or steam-cleaning
                          device is employed.
                          Automobile service stations shall not include sale or storage of motor vehicles or
                          trailers (new or used). Storage of motor vehicles and trailers means the parking of
                          motor vehicles and/or trailers on the lot for more than thirty (30) days or the
                          parking of motor vehicles or trailers for any period of time if said motor vehicles
                          and trailers are not displaying a current Illinois license plate.
AWNING:                   A roof-like cover, temporary in nature, which projects from the wall of a building or
                          overhangs the public way.
                          A level, open platform projecting out from the wall or walls of a principal or
BALCONY:                  accessory building or structure and which is constructed more than four feet (4')
                          above the grade of the adjoining ground.
BASEMENT:                 That portion of a building or structure which is partly or completely below grade.
                          A tract of land bounded by streets, or a combination of streets and public parks,
BLOCK:                    cemeteries, railroad rights of way, bulkhead lines or shorelines or waterways, or
                          corporate boundary lines of the City.
BUILDABLE AREA:           The space remaining on a lot after the minimum yards and open space requirements have
                          been met.
                          Any structure with roof and substantial walls securely and permanently affixed to the
                          land and entirely separated on all sides from any other structure either by space or
                          by shared building walls in which there are no communicating doors, windows or
BUILDING:                 openings; and which is designed, built, used or intended for the support, shelter,
                          enclosure or protection of persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind.
                          Any structure with interior areas not normally accessible for human use, such as gas
                          holders, oil tanks, water tanks, grain elevators, coal bunkers, oil cracking towers
                          and other similar structures are not considered as buildings.
                          The vertical distance measured from the established grade level opposite the center of
BUILDING HEIGHT:          the front of the building to the highest elevation of the roof in the case of a slant
                          or flat roof; to the deck line of a mansard roof; and to the mean height level between
                          eaves and ridge of a gable, hip or gambrel roof.
                          Any building which lawfully exists upon the effective date hereof or amendment of this
                          Title and which does not conform to the regulations herein prescribing the required
BUILDING, NONCONFORMING:  yards, coverage, height and setbacks, minimum required spacing between buildings on a
                          single lot, and minimum required usable open space for the district in which the
                          building is located.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL:      A nonaccessory building in which the principal use of the lot on which it is located
                          is conducted.
BUILDING SETBACK:         The minimum distance to be maintained between a public right of way and the nearest
                          supporting member of any building or structure on the lot or parcel of land.
                          A line which is parallel to a public right of way and which extends across the entire
BUILDING SETBACK LINE:    width or length of the lot beyond which no supporting member of a building or
                          structure may extend.
BUILDING, TEMPORARY:      A building not designed for permanent human occupancy or for the permanent protection
                          of animals, chattels or property of any kind.
                          A term used to describe the size of buildings or structures, and their relationships
                          to each other and to open areas and lot lines, and therefore includes:
                          (A)   The size of buildings or structures;
                          (B)   The area of the lot upon which a building or structure is located, and the
                          number of dwelling units within such buildings or structures in relation to the area
BULK:                     of the lot;
                          (C)   The shape of buildings or structures;
                          (D)   The location of exterior walls of buildings or structures in relation to lot
                          lines, to other walls of the same building or structure, to legally required windows,
                          or to other buildings or other structures; and
                          (E)   All open area relating to buildings or structures and their relationship
                          thereto.
                          A place of business carrying on an operation, the ownership or management of which is
BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT:   separate and distinct from those of any other place of business located on the same or
                          other lot.
                          A roof-like structure, whether projecting from a wall or freestanding, and supported
CANOPY:                   in whole or in part by vertical supports from the ground, and erected primarily to
                          provide shelter from the weather.
CAR WASH:                 A building, structure or portion thereof containing facilities for washing motor
                          vehicles.
CAR WASH, AUTOMATED (As A A permanent commercial facility utilizing a production line method using a conveyor,
Principal Use):           blower, steam cleaning device or other mechanical devices where the passenger
                          typically is not in the vehicle.
CAR WASH, DRIVE- THROUGH  A car wash that is accessory to a principal use (i.e., gasoline station) where an
(As An Accessory Use):    enclosed structure is provided for the mechanical washing of vehicles while the
                          passenger typically remains in the vehicle.
CAR WASH, USER OPERATED:  Providing bays, water, equipment, or soap, for the complete or partial hand washing of
                          automobiles by customer.
CARPORT:                  An open sided (on at least 2 sides), roofed automobile shelter, usually formed by
                          extension of the roof from the side of the building.
                          When the connector from an electric vehicle supply equipment (or standard outlet) is
CHARGING:                 inserted into the electric vehicle inlet, and electrical power is being transferred
                          for the purpose of recharging the batteries on board the electric vehicle.
                          The standardized indicators of electrical force, or voltage at which an electric
                          vehicle's battery is recharged. Typical electric vehicle charging levels and
                          specifications are:
                          (A)   Level 1: AC slow battery charging. The charging station delivers electric power
                          to a vehicle's charging module which conve1is the AC power to DC power and delivers it
                          to the battery. Voltage is one hundred twenty (120) volts.
CHARGING LEVEL:           (B)   Level 2: AC medium battery charging. The charging station delivers electric
                          power to a vehicle's charging module which converts the AC power to DC power and
                          delivers it to the battery. Voltage is between two hundred eight (208) volts for
                          commercial use and two hundred forty (240) volts for residential use.
                          (C)   Level 3: DC fast or quick battery charging. Sometimes referred to as "DC fast".
                          The charging station bypasses a vehicle's on-board charger to directly deliver
                          electricity to the vehicle's high voltage battery. Voltage is equal to, or greater
                          than four hundred eighty (480) volts.
                          Equipment that has as its primary purpose, the transfer of electric energy by
                          conductive or inductive means to a battery or other energy storage device located
                          onboard an electric vehicle. Various types of charging stations include:
                          (A)   Accessible Charging Station: A charging station incorporated into or immediately
                          adjacent to a handicapped parking space as "handicapped parking space" is defined by
                          the Illinois Vehicle Code.
                          (B)   Private Charging Station: A charging station that is:
CHARGING STATION:            1.   Privately owned and has restricted access (e.g., single-family home, executive
                          parking, designated employee parking, etc.); or
                             2.   Publicly owned and has restricted access (e.g., fleet parking with no access
                          to the general public).
                          (C)   Public Charging Station: A charging station that is:
                             1.   Publicly owned and publicly available (e.g., park and ride, public parking
                          lots, on street parking, etc.); or
                             2.   Privately owned and publicly available (e.g., shopping center parking, non-
                          reserved parking in multi-family parking lots, etc.).
                          A building, structure or portion thereof, the principal use of which is for offices of
CLINIC, MEDICAL OR        an organization or group practice of specializing physicians or dentists or both, and
DENTAL:                   contains facilities for examination and treatment of patients but without facilities
                          for overnight lodging.
                          A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide members paying dues to support
                          the organization and who meet periodically for the promotion of some common object,
CLUB OR LODGE:            such as literature, science, politics, good fellowship, athletics, etc., which owns,
                          hires or leases a building or structure, or portion thereof, the use of such premises
                          being restricted to members and their guests.
COMMON AREA:              An area or areas of reasonable contiguous open space available to residents of a
                          planned unit development for common use. (See also definition of Open Space.)
COMPANION VARIATION:      See definition of Variation, Companion.
COMPLEMENTARY:            Of the same or similar type.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:       The comprehensive plan for the city of Darien, including all exhibits, appendices, and
                          amendments thereto, as adopted by the city council of the city of Darien.
CONTIGUOUS:               In actual contact.
                          A building or structure intended, designed or used for the care of the aged or infirm,
CONVALESCENT HOME:        or for those suffering bodily disorders and which neither has facilities nor renders
                          services normally associated with a hospital.
CURB:                     Shall mean and include the edge of the street pavement or the edge of the traveled
                          portion of an improved street surface where there is no curb.
CUSTOMARY:                Common usage.
DAYCARE CENTER:           A nonresidential facility offering daytime supervision, care, instruction, or
                          recreation to preschool children and/or adults.
                          A logarithmic unit of measurement which defines the range of sound pressure levels
DECIBEL:                  (LP) between the minimum audible value at one thousand (1,000) cps and the maximum
                          audible value of LP, at which effects, other than hearing, begin to appear.
DIRECTOR:                 The director of community development of the city of Darien.
DISTRICT BOUNDARY LINE:   A line which marks the separation between two (2) zoning districts.
DISTRICT, BUSINESS:       Any one of the following zoning districts: B-1, B-2 and B-3.
DISTRICT, OFFICE AND      Any one of the following zoning districts: O, OR&I, and I-1.
INDUSTRIAL:
DISTRICT, RESIDENCE:      Any one of the following zoning districts: R-1, R-2 and R-3.
                          A portion of the corporate area of the City within which, on a uniform basis, certain
                          other uses of land and building are permitted and certain other uses of land and
DISTRICT, ZONING:         building are prohibited as set forth in this Title, or within which certain yards and
                          other open spaces are required or within which certain lot areas, dwelling sizes and
                          density requirements are established or within which a combination of such aforesaid
                          regulations are applied.
                          A building or structure which provides lodging for students attending a college,
DORMITORY:                university, educational facility or boarding school and which is operated by the
                          college, university, educational facility or boarding school.
                          A building, structure or portion thereof where liquors are sold to be consumed on the
DRINKING ESTABLISHMENT:   premises but not including eating establishments where the principal use is serving
                          food.
                          An establishment or part thereof in which are provided facilities where selling,
DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT:   purchasing and consuming goods and services are intended to occur primarily in
                          patrons' automobiles parked on the premises or where commodities are purchased by
                          customers waiting in automobiles for consumption off the premises.
DRY-CLEANING              A business that handles on the premises the washing, drying, dry cleaning and ironing
ESTABLISHMENT:            of clothes including pickup and delivery services.
DUPLEX:                   See definition of Dwelling, Two-Family.
                          A building, structure or portion thereof designed or used exclusively for residential
DWELLING:                 purposes, including single-family, two-family, duplexes and multiple- family
                          dwellings, dormitories and apartment hotels, but not including mobile homes or other
                          trailers.
DWELLING, LIMITED         A dwelling in a building, structure or portion thereof containing three (3) or four
MULTIPLE- FAMILY:         (4) dwelling units.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-       A dwelling in a building, structure or portion thereof containing five (5) or more
FAMILY:                   dwelling units.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY:  A dwelling containing one dwelling unit only.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY   A dwelling joined to two (2) other dwellings by party walls, or vertical cavity walls,
ATTACHED:                 and aboveground physically unifying horizontal structural elements.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY   A dwelling which is surrounded on all sides by open space on the same lot, but
DETACHED:                 excluding mobile homes.
DWELLING, TWO- FAMILY:    A detached building or structure containing two (2) dwelling units only, designed for
                          and occupied by two (2) families.
                          One or more rooms which are arranged, designed or used as living quarters for one
DWELLING UNIT:            family only. Individual bathrooms and complete single kitchen facilities, permanently
                          installed to serve the entire family, shall always be included within each dwelling
                          unit.
EATING ESTABLISHMENT:     A building, structure or portion thereof within which food is offered for sale and
                          which permits consumption within the building or structure.
EDUCATIONAL FACILITY:     An institution for instruction in academic fields, a skill or business.
EFFICIENCY UNIT:          A dwelling unit consisting of one principal room for living, sleeping and eating plus
                          facilities for cooking and a complete bath and toilet facility.
                          A vehicle that stores electric energy to be used for propulsion. An electric vehicle
                          shall be defined as a "motor vehicle," as defined in the Illinois Vehicle Code; and
                          (A)   Which displays the State of Illinois EV license tag; or
ELECTRIC VEHICLE:         (B)   Any vehicle defined by the air resources board as "off-vehicle charge capable"
                          meaning having the capability to charge a battery from an off-vehicle electric energy
                          source that cannot be connected or coupled to the vehicle in any manner while the
                          vehicle is being driven.
                          "Make ready" electrical equipment including panels with circuit breakers,
ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING switchboards, transformers, conduit, wiring, junction boxes, conduit hangers, and
INFRASTRUCTURE:           other interconnections necessary and integral to delivering electrical power from a
                          facility for charging electric vehicles.
                          Equipment designed to safely supply power from a facility or structure to electric
ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING vehicles. Electric vehicle charging stations include hard-wired electric vehicle
STATION:                  charging stations and electric vehicle charging stations that plug in to standard wall
                          outlets and may also integrate communication, metering, GPS, and other features that
                          assist electric vehicle drivers and the host facility.
                          Equipment designed to safely supply power from a facility or structure to electric
                          vehicles. Electric vehicle supply equipment includes hard-wired electric vehicle
ELECTRIC VEHICLE SUPPLY   charging stations, electric vehicle charging stations that plug in to standard wall
EQUIPMENT:                outlets and portable electric vehicle chargers. Electric vehicle supply equipment may
                          also integrate communication, metering, GPS, two-way electricity flow management, and
                          other features that assist electric vehicle drivers and the host facility.
                          An individual, two (2) unrelated persons or two (2) or more persons related to the
FAMILY:                   other by blood, marriage, legal adoption, or legal custody, including his or their
                          domestic servants, maintaining a common household in a dwelling unit.
                          The use of land for agricultural purposes, including agriculture, floriculture,
FARMING:                  forestry, grazing of dairy animals, greenhouses, hatcheries, horticulture, nurseries,
                          orchards, paddocks, truck farming, vitaculture and raising of fur-bearing animals and
                          poultry.
                          A structure which is used as a boundary or means of protection or confinement and
FENCE:                    which is made of manufactured material, such as, but not limited to, wire, mesh,
                          chainlink, wood or stone material.
                          Fence-type structures such as landscape fences (i.e., split rail) that are three feet
FENCE, ARCHITECTURAL:     (3') or less in height, and which are less than twenty five feet (25') in length, and
                          not used as a means of confinement.
FENCE, OPEN:              A fence that is constructed so that at least fifty percent (50%) of the superficial
                          surface consists of regularly distributed apertures.
                          A fence that is constructed so that it almost entirely conceals from view, adjoining
FENCE, SOLID:             properties, streets or alleys, or any activities behind it from the view of adjoining
                          properties, streets or alleys.
FLAG LOT:                 See definition of Lot, Flag.
                          The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of a building or structure
                          measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the center line of
                          walls separating two (2) buildings or structures, computed as the sum of the following
                          areas:
                          (A)   Floor space devoted to the principal use of the premises, including accessory
                          storage areas located within selling or working space such as counters, racks or
                          closets;
                          (B)   Floor area devoted to the production or processing of goods or to business or
                          professional offices;
                          (C)   The basement floor area;
                          (D)   Any basement floor area devoted to retailing activities;
                          (E)   Elevator shafts and stairwells at each floor;
                          (F)   Floor space used for mechanical equipment (except equipment, open or enclosed,
FLOOR AREA:               located on the roof);
                          (G)   Penthouses;
                          (H)   Attic space having headroom of seven feet (7') or more;
                          (I)   Interior balconies and mezzanines;
                          (J)   Enclosed porches;
                          (K)   Space devoted to accessory uses; and
                          (L)   Areas used for storage.
                          Space devoted to off-street parking or loading facilities including aisles, ramps and
                          maneuvering space, shall not be included in the floor area. The floor area of
                          structures devoted to bulk storage of materials, including, but not limited to, grain
                          elevators and warehouses, shall be computed by counting each ten feet (10') of height,
                          or fraction thereof, as being equal to one floor. For the purposes of computing this
                          fraction, any height of more than five feet (5') shall be considered as equal to one
                          floor; any height of five feet (5') or less shall not be counted as one floor.
                          The floor area ratio of the building or other structure on any lot is determined by
                          dividing the floor area of such building or structure by the area of the lot on which
                          the building or structure is located. When more than one building or structure is
                          located on a lot, then the floor area ratio is determined by dividing the total floor
FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR):   area of all buildings or structures by the area of the lot, or, in the case of a
                          planned unit development, by the gross area of the site. The floor area ratio
                          requirements, as set forth under each zoning district, when multiplied by the area of
                          the lot in square feet, shall determine the maximum permissible floor area for the
                          building or structure on the lot.
                          A building, structure, parcel of land or portion thereof, in which:
FREIGHT TERMINAL:         (A)   Freight is shipped by airplane, motor truck or railroad; or
                          (B)   Freight is received, assembled, sorted, and/or rerouted for local, intrastate or
                          interstate shipment.
FREQUENCY:                The number of oscillations per second in a sound wave representing an index of the
                          pitch of the resulting sound.
                          The line of demarcation between private property and that open to the general use of
FRONTAGE:                 the public, such as a street, alley, stream or park. Where two (2) sides of a parcel
                          of property face or abut upon streets, alleys, streams or parks, it shall be deemed to
                          have frontage on both sides.
GOLF COURSE:              Public, semipublic or private grounds over which the game of golf is played, including
                          accessory buildings and land uses incidental thereto.
                          The established elevation of the street roadway or street sidewalk adjoining the front
                          lot line, at a point opposite the middle of the building wall facing such front lot
                          line. Where no such grade has been established, the grade shall be the elevation of
GRADE:                    the street sidewalk at such point and where no sidewalks exist, the grade shall be the
                          average elevation of the street roadway adjacent to the front lot line; except in
                          cases of unusual topographic conditions as determined by the Zoning Enforcement
                          Officer, grade shall be the average elevation of the finished surface of the ground
                          adjoining the exterior walls of a building at the base of a structure.
                          For the purpose of vision clearance at intersections (see Section
                          5A-5-7-2 of this Title) street grade shall mean the lowest point of the two (2)
GRADE, STREET:            adjoining intersecting streets measured at the curb line, for a distance of fifty feet
                          (50') along each street measured from the point of intersection of the two (2) curb
                          lines of the two (2) adjoining intersecting streets.
GROSS AREA:               The total land area designated for a particular use, including all public and private
                          rights of way. (See also definition of Net Site Area.)
                          A person who occupies or has the right to occupy a lodging house, rooming house,
GUEST, PERMANENT:         boarding house, hotel, apartment hotel or motel accommodation as his domicile and
                          place of permanent residence.
GUEST, TEMPORARY:         A person who is a guest in a dwelling unit for a period not in excess of thirty (30)
                          days.
                          An accessory use to the principal use of a building or structure as a dwelling unit
HOME OCCUPATION:          for the gainful employment of a member of the family residing in the premises,
                          involving the production, provision or sale of goods and services.
                          An institution which maintains and operates facilities for the diagnosis, treatment,
HOSPITAL:                 medical care, or surgical care of persons suffering from illness, disease, injury,
                          deformity or other abnormal physical conditions and which permits overnight lodging
                          for patients, but excluding medical or dental clinics or offices.
                          A combined hotel and multiple-family dwelling where more than fifty percent (50%) of
HOTEL, APARTMENT:         the accommodations are in dwelling units occupied or intended for occupancy by
                          permanent guests securing such accommodations by prearrangement for a continuous
                          period of thirty (30) days or more.
                          An establishment containing lodging, rooms for occupancy by transient guests, which is
                          commonly known as a hotel or motel in the City and which provides customary hotel
HOTEL OR MOTEL:           services such as maid, telephone and secretarial, bellboy and desk services; the use
                          and upkeep of furniture and furnishings, and the laundering of linens. A hotel may
                          include a restaurant or cocktail lounge, public banquet halls, ballroom or meeting
                          rooms.
ILLINOIS ROUTE 83         See definition of Route 83 Corridor.
CORRIDOR:
                          A building or structure which is occupied by a religious nonprofit corporation or
INSTITUTION, RELIGIOUS:   organization and which is operated for public or semipublic use, including churches,
                          synagogues, rectories and convents.
                          A parcel of land where waste, scrap, discarded or salvaged materials are bought, sold,
                          exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled or handled, including, but not limited
                          to, scrap iron and other metals, vehicles and machinery in inoperable condition,
JUNKYARD:                 paper, rags, rubber tires, and bottles. The term "junkyard" includes automobile
                          graveyards, automobile wrecking yards, house wrecking yards and storage areas, and
                          used lumberyards; but does not include uses established entirely within enclosed
                          buildings and structures.
                          A building, structure, parcel of land or portion thereof in which four (4) or more
                          dogs, cats or other household domestic animals over four (4) months of age are kept,
KENNEL:                   or in which more than two (2) such animals are maintained, boarded, bred or cared for,
                          in return for remuneration or are kept for the purpose of sale, but not for veterinary
                          care or treatment.
                          A building, structure or portion thereof which is devoted to experimental study such
LABORATORY:               as testing and analyzing but not including the manufacturing of products for sale
                          either directly or indirectly.
LODGE:                    See definition of Club Or Lodge.
LOT:                      A parcel or tract of land indicated as such upon a plat recorded in the office of the
                          County Recorder.
LOT AREA:                 The area of any lot within its exterior lot lines, excluding any area lying within a
                          street, right of way or easement for public or private access or egress.
                          A lot of which at least two (2) adjacent sides abut for their full lengths upon street
LOT, CORNER:              rights of way. The point of intersection of the street right-of-way lines is the
                          corner.
LOT COVERAGE:             The part or percent of the lot occupied by buildings, structures, or any impervious
                          surface, including accessory buildings or structures.
LOT DEPTH:                The average horizontal distance between the front lot line and the rear lot line.
                          Lots that do not meet the minimum lot width requirements of the Ordinance, where the
LOT, FLAG:                lots include a narrow access corridor to the building portion of the lot which is
                          located behind another lot with normally required lot widths.
LOT LINE:                 A property boundary line of any lot held in single or separate ownership. (See also
                          definition of Property Lines.)
   Lot Line, Corner SidThat boundary of a corner lot which abuts a street but is not the front lot line.
                          That boundary of a lot which is along a street right of way. For landlocked or
   Lot Line, Front:    partially landlocked land, the front lot line is that lot line that faces the access
                          to the lot.
   Lot Line, Interior  A boundary of a lot which does not abut a street right of way and which is not a rear
Side:                     or front lot line.
   Lot Line, Rear:     That boundary of a lot which is most distant from and is, or is most nearly, parallel
                          to, the front lot line.
   Lot Line, Side:     An interior lot line which is not a front lot line or a rear lot line. If it is
                          located along a street right of way, it shall be deemed a corner side lot line.
LOT OF RECORD:            A lot which is part of a subdivision which has been recorded in the Office of the
                          Recorder of Deeds of DuPage County.
LOT WIDTH:                The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured through the buildable
                          area.
                          A transportable, factory-built home, designed to be used as a year-round dwelling and
                          built prior to the enactment of the Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and
MOBILE HOME:              Safety Standards Act of 1974, which became effective June 15, 1976. Single-family
                          detached housing that is manufactured under the National Manufactured Housing
                          Construction and Safety Standards Act for 1974, includes structures known as
                          manufactured homes or mobile homes.
MODEL HOME:               A building or structure which is used as an example of the type of dwelling units
                          which may be purchased or rented.
MOTOR VEHICLE:            See definition of Vehicle, Motor.
                          The ratio between the total number of dwelling units and the total land area
NET RESIDENTIAL DENSITY:  designated for dwelling units, exclusive of all public and private rights of way and
                          nonresidential uses.
NET SITE AREA:            The area of a lot, parcel or tract, excluding boundary rights of way. (See also
                          definition of Gross Area.)
NON-ELECTRIC VEHICLE:     Vehicle that does not meet the definition of Electric Vehicle (EV).
                          A space, building or structure, or combination thereof for the growing of live trees,
                          shrubs, evergreens or plants offered for retail sale on the premises, including
NURSERY, PLANT MATERIAL:  products used for gardening or landscaping. The definition of nursery within the
                          meaning of this Title does not include any space, building or structure used for the
                          sale of fruits, vegetables or Christmas trees.
NURSING HOME:             See definition of Convalescent Home.
OCTAVE BAND:              Means of dividing the range of sound frequencies into octaves in order to classify
                          sound according to pitch.
ODOR THRESHOLD:           The minimum concentration of odorous matter in the air that can be identified as an
                          odor.
OFF-STREET PARKING OR     A building, structure, parcel of land or portion thereof, which provides off-street
LOADING FACILITY:         parking spaces or loading berths, including parking access driveways and aisles, and
                          which is either a principal or accessory use.
OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE  An open, hard-surfaced area of land other than a right of way, and access driveways
OR LOADING BERTH:         and aisles, the use of which is for the standing, loading and unloading of motor
                          vehicles.
OFFICIAL MAP:             The map showing the streets, highways, parks and other land uses theretofore laid out,
                          adopted and established by law and any amendments or additions thereto.
OPACITY:                  The degree of obstruction of light; the greater opacity, the greater the obstruction
                          of light.
                          Land used or occupied for the purpose of buying, selling or renting merchandise stored
OPEN SALES LOT:           or displayed out- of-doors prior to sale. Such merchandise includes, but is not
                          limited to, automobiles, trucks, motor scooters, motorcycles, boats or similar
                          commodities.
OPEN SPACE:               That portion of a lot or parcel of land unoccupied by buildings, structures, rights of
                          way and off-street parking or loading facilities.
ORDINANCE:                Reference to ordinance shall, unless the context requires another interpretation, be
                          construed as the Darien Zoning Ordinance.
                          A principal building or structure intended and used for the storage of motor vehicles
PARKING GARAGE:           pursuant to previous arrangements and to transients, and where no equipment, parts,
                          fuel, grease or oil is sold and vehicles are not equipped, serviced, repaired, hired
                          or sold.
                          An accessory building or structure or an accessory portion of the principal building
PARKING GARAGE,           or structure which is intended and used to store private motor vehicles owned by
ACCESSORY:                members of the family or families residing upon the premises or by the owners,
                          employees or patrons of the business or industrial uses.
                          An open area, other than a public right of way, intended and used for the storage of
PARKING LOT:              motor vehicles pursuant to previous arrangements and to transients, and where no
                          equipment, parts, fuel, grease or oil is sold and vehicles are not equipped, serviced,
                          repaired, hired or sold.
                          An open area, other than a public right of way, which is accessory to the principal
PARKING LOT, ACCESSORY:   use of the lot and which is intended and used to store private motor vehicles owned by
                          members of the family or families residing upon the premises or by the owners,
                          employees or patrons of the business or industrial uses.
PARKING MODULE:           One access aisle servicing a row of parking on each side of the aisle.
PARKING RESERVOIR:        Off-street parking spaces allocated to motor vehicles awaiting entrance to a drive-in
                          establishment.
PARKING STALL LENGTH:     Longitudinal dimension of the stall perpendicular to the aisle.
PARKING STALL WIDTH:      The width of a parking stall measured crosswise to the vehicle.
PARKING, WALKING          The distance measured from the nearest point of the parking facility to the nearest
DISTANCE:                 point of the building that such facility is required to serve.
PARTICULATE MATTER:       Material, which is suspended in or discharged into the atmosphere in finely, divided
                          form, as a liquid or solid.
                          A level plane or platform which is located adjacent to one or more faces of a
PATIO/TERRACE:            principal or accessory building and which is constructed not more than four feet (4')
                          above the grade level of the adjoining ground, but excluding driveways and parking
                          facilities.
                          Criteria established to control smoke and particulate matter, noise, odor, toxic or
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:    noxious matter, vibration, fire and explosion hazards, glare and heat, and radiation
                          hazards generated by or inherent in uses of buildings, structures or land.
PILOT PLANT:              A building or structure used for the testing of commercial or industrial processes and
                          products for the manufacturing of products for testing purposes.
                          A parcel of land which is of sufficient size as defined in the applicable zoning
                          district regulations and the planned unit development regulations of Chapter 3 of this
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT  Title, and which is under single ownership or unified control and which may be granted
(PUD):                    variations from specific land use regulations and design standards in order to
                          accomplish the purposes of the planned unit development regulations as specified in
                          Chapter 3 of this Title.
                          For the purposes of regulated and nonregulated intersections, as defined and as
                          regulated in Section
PLANTS:                   5A-5-7-2 of this Title, the word "plants" shall include trees, except those whose
                          branches have been trimmed to a point not less than six feet (6') above the ground, or
                          which have no such branches.
                          A map indicating graphically, a proposed land subdivision of resubdivision prepared in
PLAT:                     a form suitable for filing for record with the necessary affidavits, dedications and
                          acceptances, and with complete bearings and dimensions of all lines defining lots and
                          blocks, streets, alleys, public areas and other dimensions of land.
PORCH:                    A roofed-over structure, projecting out from the wall or walls of a main structure and
                          commonly open to the weather in part.
PREMISES:                 A parcel of land and all buildings and structures thereon.
PRESCHOOL:                See definition of School, Nursery.
PROPERTY:                 The word "property" shall mean and include public as well as private property.
PROPERTY LINES:           The lines bounding a lot.
PUBLIC OR PRIVATE UTILITY Any person, firm, corporation or municipal department which is authorized to furnish,
FACILITY:                 under public regulation, electricity, gas, steam, telephone communications,
                          transportation, sewer or water.
RETAIL, GENERAL:          The general sale of commodities to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY:             Any public or private, existing or dedicated sidewalk, street, highway or other
                          thoroughfare.
                          Described in the U.S. Bureau of Mines Information Circular 8333, and on which are
RINGELMANN CHART:         illustrated graduated shades of gray for use in estimating the light-obscuring
                          capacity of smoke and smoke density.
RINGELMANN NUMBER:        The number of the area on the Ringelmann Chart that coincides most nearly with the
                          visual density of emission or the light-obscuring capacity of the smoke.
                          That territory located within the corporate limits of the City of Darien which had
ROUTE 83 CORRIDOR:        frontage along the west side of Route 83. The Route 83 Corridor runs generally from
                          67th Street on the north to 69th Street on the south and from Plainfield Road on the
                          north to just south of 74th Street on the south.
SANITARIUM:               See definition of Hospital.
SCHOOL:                   An institution, either public or private, which offers systematic instruction in any
                          branch or branches of knowledge.
SCHOOL, MUSIC OR DANCE:   A school which offers instruction in the performing arts.
SCHOOL, NURSERY:          An instructional facility for preschool children.
SCHOOL, TRADE OR          A school, which offers instruction in nonacademic but skilled subjects such as typing,
VOCATIONAL:               shorthand, business machines, carpentry, drafting and automobile mechanics.
SERVICES, GENERAL:        The business or occupation of doing work for others for a fee such as shoe repair or
                          clock repair.
                          A building or structure or a group of buildings or structures in which is located a
SHOPPING CENTER:          group of business establishments, and which is planned, developed, owned and managed
                          as a unit.
                          A single-family dwelling, or a residential dwelling unit in a multi-unit structure,
                          condominium, cooperative, timeshare or similar joint property ownership arrangement
                          that is rented for a fee for less than 30 consecutive days. "Short-term rental"
                          includes vacation rentals. "Short-term rental" does not include:
SHORT-TERM RENTAL:        (A)   A dwelling that is used for any non-residential purpose, including educational,
                          health care, retail, restaurant, banquet space, event center or other similar uses;
                          (B)   A bed and breakfast establishment as defined in Section 2 of the Bed and
                          Breakfast Act; or
                          (C)   Transient accommodations, including hotels and motels that are not classified as
                          residential property for real property taxation purposes.
SMOKE:                    The visible discharge from a chimney, stack, vent, exhaust or combustion process,
                          which is made up of particulate matter.
                          The number obtained when the smoke density in the Ringelmann Number is multiplied by
                          the time of emission in minutes. For the purpose of this calculation:
                          (A)   A Ringelmann density reading shall be made at least once a minute during the
SMOKE UNIT:               period of observation;
                          (B)   Each reading is then multiplied by the time in minutes during which it is
                          observed; and
                          (C)   The various products are then added together to give the total number of smoke
                          units observed during the entire observation period.
SOUND LEVEL:              The intensity of sound of an operation or use as measured in decibels.
SOUND LEVEL METER:        An instrument standardized by the American Standards Association for measurement of
                          the intensity of sound.
                          The space provided for vehicles that are awaiting service at a drive-through or drive-
                          in facility. For purposes of this definition, no area within any car wash structure
STACKING:                 may count toward meeting the stacking requirement; however, the space directly
                          adjoining a drive-through window shall be included in the stacking requirement.
                          Stacking spaces shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20') in length and nine feet (9')
                          in width.
STACKING SPACES:          See definition of Parking Reservoir.
STORY:                    That part of a building or structure between any floor and the floor next above, and
                          if there be no floor above, then the ceiling above. A basement is not a story.
                          That portion of a building or structure under a gable, hip or mansard roof, the wall
STORY, HALF:              plates of which on at least two (2) opposite exterior walls are not more than four and
                          one-half feet (41/2') above the finished floor of each story.
                          Any change, other than incidental repairs, which prolongs the life of the supporting
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION:    members of a building or structure, such as the addition, removal or modification of
                          bearing walls, columns, beams, girders or foundations.
STRUCTURE:                An object which is constructed or erected and which requires permanent location on the
                          land or attachment to an object having permanent location on the land.
                          A structure which lawfully exists upon the effective date hereof or amendment of this
STRUCTURE, NONCONFORMING: Title and which does not conform to the bulk or use regulations or to the required
                          conditions of the zoning district in which located by reason of the adoption or
                          amendment of these regulations.
STRUCTURE, PRINCIPAL:     A building or structure in which a principal use is conducted.
STRUCTURE, TEMPORARY:     A structure not permanently located, placed, or affixed to the ground.
                          Any aboveground or in-ground structure used or capable of being used for swimming,
SWIMMING POOL:            wading or bathing (including drained pools), twenty four inches (24") or more in
                          depth, or with a surface area exceeding seventy five (75) square feet.
TERRACE:                  See definition of Patio/Terrace.
USE:                      The purpose or activity, for which the land or building or structure thereon is
                          designed, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained.
                          The use of any building, structure or parcel of land which lawfully is occupied and
                          maintained upon the effective date hereof or amendment of this Title and which does
USE, NONCONFORMING:       not conform to the use regulations or to the required conditions of the zoning
                          district in which it is located by reason of the adoption or amendment of these
                          regulations.
                          A use which may be lawfully established in a particular zoning district or districts,
USE, PERMITTED:           providing it conforms with all requirements, regulations and standards of such zoning
                          district.
USE, PRINCIPAL:           The primary purpose or function of a building, structure or parcel of land. A
                          principal use may be either a permitted use or a special use.
                          A use which, because of its unique characteristics, may be allowed in a specified
USE, SPECIAL:             zoning district permitting it as a conditional use, only after special consideration
                          of its impact upon neighboring land and of public need for the use at the particular
                          location.
USE, TEMPORARY:           A use of a building, structure or parcel of land which is impermanent and in existence
                          for a limited amount of time.
                          A waiver of the terms of the Zoning Title where, due to conditions peculiar to the
VARIATION:                property, a literal enforcement of this Title would result in unnecessary and undue
                          hardship.
VARIATION, COMPANION:     A variation accompanied by a request for an amendment, special use or plat
                          application.
VARIATION, USE:           A variation which grants a use in a zoning district which is not a permitted or a
                          special use in such district, without using the amendment procedure.
VEHICLE, MOTOR:           Any self-propelled, wheeled conveyance that does not run on rails and that carries
                          passengers, goods and equipment.
VIBRATION:                The periodic displacement, measured in inches, of earth at designated frequency cycles
                          per second.
VIOLATION:                The act of disregarding, disobeying, neglecting, omitting or refusing to comply with
                          the regulations or enforcement of this Title.
WHOLESALE:                A business which primarily sells in quantity or bulk to a person or entity for resale.
                          An open space which is located at grade between a building or structure and the
                          adjoining lot lines and which is unobstructed or unoccupied by any portion of the
                          building or structure from the ground upward, except as provided in Section
YARD:                     5A-5-7 of this Title. An "actual yard" differs from a "required yard" in that the
                          "actual yard" includes the "required yard" plus any yard provided between the
                          "required yard" and the structure and/or building. The "required yard" is the minimum
                          yard as required by the applicable zoning district.
    Yard, Corner Side: A yard which is bounded by the front yard line, corner side yard line, rear yard line,
                          and corner side lot line.
   Yard, Front:        A yard which extends across the full width of the lot and which is bounded by the side
                          lot lines, the front lot line and the front yard line.
   Yard, Interior Side:A yard which is bounded by the front yard line, interior side yard line, rear yard
                          line, and side lot line.
   Yard, Rear:         A yard which extends across the full width of the lot and which is bounded by the side
                          lot lines, the rear lot line, and the rear yard line.
                          A line in a lot that is parallel to the lot line along which the applicable yard
                          extends and which is not nearer to such lot line at any point than the required depth
YARD LINE:                or width of the applicable yard. A building, structure or other obstruction shall not
                          encroach into the area between the yard line and such adjacent lot line, except for
                          such permitted obstructions in yards as are set forth in section
                          5A-5-7 of this title.
   Yard Line, Corner   A line which extends across the lot and is parallel to the corner side lot line and
Side:                     which is not nearer to the corner side lot line at any point than the required corner
                          side yard depth.
   Yard Line, Front:   A line which extends across the lot and is parallel to the front lot line and which is
                          not nearer to the front lot line at any point than the required front yard depth.
   Yard Line, Interior A line which extends across the lot and is parallel to the interior side lot line and
Side:                     which is not nearer to the interior side lot line at any point than the required
                          interior side yard depth.
   Yard Line, Rear:    A line which extends across the lot and is parallel to the rear lot line and which is
                          not nearer to the rear lot line at any point than the required rear yard depth.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7457706f7aaf2d7e388d2de0fb2caab75b34723e/IMAGES/0-0-0-2100.gif]
ZONING DISTRICT MAP:      The map incorporated herein as a part of this title designating zoning districts.
                          The Director of Community Development is the officer responsible for enforcing and
ZONING ENFORCEMENT        administering all requirements of this title. (Ord. 0-03-00, 4-3-2000; amd. Ord. 0-12-
OFFICER:                  07, 4-2-2007; Ord. 0-03-18, 2-5-2018; Ord. O-11-23, 6-19-2023; Ord. O-24-23, 11-20-
                          2023)
 
 
TITLE 5B
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Subdivision Regulations   1
Land And Cash Donations   2
CHAPTER 1
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5B-1-1: Title
5B-1-2: Purpose, Scope And Jurisdiction
5B-1-3: General Regulations
5B-1-4: Rules And Regulations
5B-1-5: Preliminary Plat Procedures And Requirements
5B-1-6: Final Plat Procedures And Requirements
5B-1-7: General Design And Development Standards
5B-1-8: Design Standards For Land Improvements
5B-1-9: Acceptance Of Improvements And "As-Built" Drawings
5B-1-10: Filing Fees For Plats
5B-1-11: Building Codes And Other Applicable Ordinances
5B-1-12: Occupancy Permit
5B-1-13: Variations And Amendments
5B-1-14: Enforcement
5B-1-15: Record Of Plats
5B-1-16: Validity
5B-1-17: Violation; Penalty
5B-1-18: Exhibits
5B-1-1: TITLE:
This Ordinance shall be known as the Subdivision Regulations of the City of
Darien, DuPage County, Illinois, and may be cited and referred to as
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS. (Ord. 0-21-71, 11-15-1971, as amended 1-25-1975)
5B-1-2: PURPOSE, SCOPE AND JURISDICTION:
The purpose of these Subdivision Regulations is to set forth rules, regulations
and standards to guide the subdivision of land, in order to promote the public
health, safety and general welfare within the jurisdiction of the City of
Darien (hereinafter called the "City"). The Subdivision Regulations shall be
administered to insure orderly growth and development, the conservation,
protection and proper use of land and adequate provision for traffic
circulation, utilities and services and to provide for the orderly and
harmonious development of the City, for the coordination of streets within new
subdivisions and other existing or planned streets and to secure a uniform
system of utilities and services and otherwise to promote realization of the
Comprehensive Plan.
All subdivisions hereafter planned within the incorporated limits of the City,
and within the area of planning jurisdiction as established by statute, shall,
in all respects be in full compliance with these Subdivision Regulations. (Ord.
0-21-71, 11-15-1971, as amended 1-25-1975)
5B-1-3: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Subdivision Of Land: After the adoption of these Subdivision
Regulations, no subdivision of land as defined within subsection
5B-1-4(B) of this Chapter shall take place without complying with the
provisions of this Title and any other ordinances of the City relating to the
subdivision of land as therein defined. (Ord. 0-21-79, 6-18-1979)
   (B)   Sale Of Land: No lot, tract or parcel of land within any proposed
subdivision shall be offered for sale nor shall any sale be consummated,
contracted for sale or option for sale given until a subdivision plat has been
reviewed and officially approved by the City Council and recorded with the
Recorder of Deeds, DuPage County, Illinois.
   (C)   Improvements Of Land: No improvements, such as sidewalks, water
supply, storm water drainage, sewage facilities, gas service, electric service
or lighting, grading, paving or surfacing of any street, shall be made within
any proposed subdivision by any owner or owners or his or their agent, or by
any utility whether publicly or privately owned or operated, at the request of
such owner or owners or by his or their agent until the plats for the
subdivision and also the plans for the improvements have been reviewed by the
City Engineer and officially approved by the City Council and the plats have
been recorded with the Recorder of Deeds, DuPage County Illinois.
   (D)   Development Of Land In Stages: Where a tract of land is proposed to be
subdivided in several stages over a period of years and the owner requests
approval in parts he shall, at the time of submission of the first part, submit
a detailed plan of the entire tract to be developed with appropriate sectioning
to demonstrate to the Darien Plan Commission that the total design as proposed
for the entire subdivision is acceptable under the terms of the Subdivision
Regulations. The Plan Commission and the City Council may give preliminary
approval to the overall plan and final approval on the parts as submitted from
time to time. (Ord. 0-21-71, 11-15-1971, as amended 1-25-1975)
   (E)   Subdivision Improvement Schedule: The developer shall file with the
City Clerk an agreement on the form provided by the City for the completion of
all public improvements in accordance with the Subdivision Public Improvement
Completion Schedule approved by the City Council on February 20, 1989.
   (F)   Public Improvement Construction Permit And Fees: The developer or his
contract agent shall acquire a construction permit prior to beginning
construction of any public improvement, including, but not limited to, earth
movement, streets, sidewalks, streetlights, sanitary sewers, storm sewers,
water lines and common landscaping in common areas and right of ways. Such
construction permit will be issued upon payment of the appropriate fees in
accordance with the permit fee schedule in Section
6B-3-10 of this Code. (Ord. 0-29-90, 5-21-1990)
   (G)   Additional Fees: In addition to any other fees required by the City's
ordinances, whenever the City determines that the nature of any real estate
development is such that the effective approval or supervision thereof would
require review by specialized experts, the costs incurred by the City with
respect thereto shall be the responsibility of the owner or developer thereof,
and payment of all such costs and fees shall be a condition precedent to the
receipt of any certificate of occupancy with respect to such development. These
costs and services include, but are not limited to: 1) plan review by model
code agencies; 2) environmental impact review; 3) on-site resident engineering
services; 4) architectural, landscaping, forestry preservation or wetland
review services. (Ord. 0-35-91, 6-3-1991)
5B-1-4: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Rules: The language set forth in the text of these Subdivision
Regulations shall be interpreted in accordance with the following rules of
construction:
      1.   The singular number includes the plural and the plural the singular;
      2.   The present tense includes the past and future tenses and the future
the present;
      3.   The word "shall" is mandatory, while the word "may" is permissive;
      4.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter;
      5.   Whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in the text of
these subdivision regulations, its meaning shall be construed as set forth in
the definition thereof.
   (B)   Definitions:
   ALLEY: A public right of way with a width not exceeding twenty four feet
(24') which affords a secondary means of access to abutting property.
   BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets or by a combination of one or more
streets and parks, cemeteries, shorelines of waterways, corporate limit lines
or other lines of demarcation which prevent the passage of traffic.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR: The Building Inspector of the City of Darien, Illinois,
or his duly authorized representative.
   BUILDING LINE: The line nearest the front and across a lot establishing the
minimum open space to be provided between the front line of the building and
the front lot line. The front line of porches, vestibules, balconies and other
obstructions if nearer the front lot line shall be controlling.
   CITY: The City of Darien, Illinois.
   CITY CLERK: The City Clerk of the City of Darien.
   CITY COUNCIL: The Mayor and City Council of the City of Darien, Illinois.
   CITY ENGINEER: The City Engineer of the City of Darien, Illinois, or his
duly authorized representative.
   COLLECTOR STREET: A medium capacity street containing two (2) to four (4)
moving lanes and serving as a feeder street connecting local service streets to
the arterial street system. It also provides street continuity within
residential neighborhoods.
   CUL-DE-SAC: A minor street with only one outlet and permanently terminated
to include vehicle turnaround at the closed end.
   EASEMENT AREA: A designated parcel of land on, over or under which a
liberty, privilege or advantage for use of land is recorded as distinct from
ownership of the land and granted either to the public, a particular person or
firm, or a combination of both.
   FINAL PLAT: The final map or plan of a subdivision presented to the City for
approval in form acceptable to the Recorder of Deeds of DuPage County.
   FRONTAGE ROAD: A collector street which is parallel to, adjacent to and
separated from the main traveled pavement surface of a thoroughfare.
   HALF STREET: A street where less than the ultimate total required right-of-
way width has been dedicated along one or more exterior property lines of a
subdivision.
   HOUSE SERVICES: The portions of piping running from a utility service main
to serve individual parcels of property, including sewer and water services.
   LAND IMPROVEMENT: Any sanitary sewage system, water distribution systems,
storm drainage systems, public utility systems, sidewalk systems, street
systems, street lighting systems, pedestrianways, no-access strips, off-street
parking areas and other improvements.
   LOT: A parcel of land of record in the office of Recorder of Deeds of DuPage
County.
   LOT, BUTT: A lot at the end of a block and located between two (2) corner
lots.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot having a frontage on two (2) nonintersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
   MAJOR ARTERIAL STREET: A high capacity street of four (4) to six (6) lanes
for moving vehicles and spaced approximately one and one-half (11/2) miles
apart as part of the Chicago Metropolitan Area arterial system.
   MINOR ARTERIAL STREET: A high capacity street of four (4) moving lanes,
spaced one-half (1/2) to one mile apart from major arterials and supplementing
the areawide major arterial system.
   MINOR STREET: A street of limited continuity used primarily for access to
abutting properties and to serve local needs of a neighborhood.
   NO-ACCESS STRIP: A land area at least twelve feet (12') wide along the rear
lot line of a double-frontage lot and abutting a thoroughfare within which no
vehicular driveways shall be permitted.
   OFFICIAL PLAN: The composite of the functional and geographic elements of
the Comprehensive Plan, or any segment thereof, in the form of plans, maps,
charts, text of reports and the Official Map, as adopted by the City of Darien.
   OWNER: Any person, group of persons, firm, association, partnership, private
corporation, public or quasi-public corporation, or a combination of any of
them, or other legal entity having sufficient proprietary interest in the land
sought to be subdivided or divided to commence and maintain proceedings under
the provisions of these subdivision regulations.
   PARKWAY: A strip of land situated within the dedicated street right of way
and: 1) located between the roadway and right-of-way line, or 2) a median
located between the roadways.
   PAVEMENT WIDTH: The distance from back to back of curbs.
   PEDESTRIANWAY: A right of way across or within a block and designated for
pedestrian use.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT: A tentative map or plan of a proposed subdivision
indicating a proposed layout submitted to the City for its consideration.
   PUBLIC WORKS SUPERVISOR: The Public Works Supervisor of the City of Darien,
Illinois, or his duly authorized representative.
   RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land dedicated to the public for access purposes
including, but not limited to, streets, alleys and pedestrianways and which may
include surface access by vehicles or pedestrian overhead access, when
permitted, for utilities and underground access for sewers and utilities.
   ROADWAY: The improved portion of the street available for vehicular traffic.
   SIDEWALK: That portion of a street right of way or pedestrianway paved or
otherwise surfaced and intended for pedestrian use only.
   STREET: A public or private right of way which provides for access to
abutting property.
   STREET WIDTH: The shortest distance between the right-of-way lines of a
given street. Pavement width is the distance from back to back of curbs.
   SUBDIVIDER: Any owner commencing proceedings under these subdivision
regulations.
   SUBDIVISION: The division of any parcel of land shown as a unit or as part
of a unit or as contiguous units on the last preceding transfer of ownership
thereof into two (2) or more parcels, sites or lots any one of which is less
than five (5) acres in area for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of
transferring ownership, except however, that the division or partition of land
into parcels of more than five (5) acres not involving any new streets or
easements of access and the sale or exchange of parcels between adjoining lot
owners where such sale or exchange does not create additional building sites
shall not be considered subdivisions; or
The improvement of one or more parcels of land for residential, commercial or
industrial structures or groups of structures involving the subdivision and
allocation of land as streets or other open spaces for common use by the
owners, occupants or lease holders, or as easements, for the extension and
maintenance of public sewer, water, storm drainage or other public utilities
and facilities; provided, however,
That where no new streets or roads are involved, division of land for
agricultural purposes where the resulting parcels are more than three (3) acres
or larger in size, divisions of property by testamentary or intestate
provisions or divisions of property upon court order shall not be considered
subdivisions.
The term "subdivision" or "subdividing" as used within this Title and the
ordinances of the City shall refer not only to developments which require the
division of a tract into two (2) or more parcels but shall relate to any
improvement of a tract of land or any right of way or easement even if such
improvement does not entail the division of a tract into two (2) or more
parcels.
   THOROUGHFARE: A major or minor arterial street. A street with a high degree
of continuity and serving as a principal trafficway between the various
districts of Darien and its environs. (Ord. 0-21-71, 11-15-1971, as amended 1-
25-1975; amd. Ord. 0-21-79, 6-18-1979)
5B-1-5: PRELIMINARY PLAT PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS:
Before subdividing any tract or parcel of land in the City and the
unincorporated area of planning jurisdiction as established by State statute an
owner shall submit a preliminary plat and a final plat to be acted upon by the
City authorities in accordance with the following requirements. Prior to the
preparation of the preliminary plat drawings, and only after obtaining written
authority from the Plan Commission, the owner shall consult with the City
Engineer, and other City officials if required, to determine conformance with
the Official Plan and Zoning Ordinance and compliance with this and other
applicable City ordinances. Requirements for collector and minor streets,
school sites, recreation sites, community facilities, shopping centers,
sanitation, water supply and drainage facilities and their relationships to
other developments, existing or proposed, in the vicinity shall be determined
in advance of the preparation of preliminary plans.
   (A)   Subdivisions Of Not More Than Two Lots:
      1.   When an application for approval of a subdivision plat containing
not more than two (2) lots and located within the City limits is submitted, the
City Clerk shall refer such plat to the City Council and upon consideration
thereof and after receiving a report from the Plan Commission, finding the
intent and purpose of these subdivision regulations not violated, the City
Council may approve such plat without further procedure.
      2.   The plat of such a subdivision submitted by the owner for approval
shall meet all requirements for a final plat as required by these subdivision
regulations.
   (B)   Preliminary Plat Procedures:
      1.   The owner shall file an application for approval of the preliminary
plat with the City Clerk. Seven (7) copies of the preliminary plat and the
required filing fee shall accompany the application.
      2.   The City Clerk shall refer five (5) copies of the preliminary plat
to the Plan Commission, one copy to the City Engineer and one copy to the
Public Works Supervisor.
      3.   The Plan Commission shall notify the owner as to the time and place
of the Plan Commission meeting at which he will be afforded an opportunity of
being heard. The City Engineer shall furnish the Plan Commission a report on
his review of the preliminary plat.
      4.   The Plan Commission shall approve or disapprove the application for
preliminary plat approval within ninety (90) days from the date of filing the
application or the filing by the applicant of the last item of required
supporting data, whichever date is later, unless such time is extended by
agreement.
      5.   When the preliminary plat has been acted upon by the Plan Commission
it shall be referred to the City Council. If the Plan Commission approves the
plat it shall so indicate on the plat, and if it disapproves such plat it shall
furnish the City Council a written statement setting forth the reasons for
disapproval. The City Council shall accept or reject such plat within thirty
(30) days after its regular slated meeting following the action of the Plan
Commission. (Ord. 0-21-71, 11-15-1971, as amended 1-25-1975)
      6.   Upon approval of a preliminary plat by the City Council, the owner
shall have one year to apply for final plat approval. In the event such
application is not made, the preliminary approval shall be null and void and of
no force and effect. The following notice of approval shall be stamped upon the
prints thereof and required signatures affixed. (Ord. 0-21-71, 11-15-1971, as
amended 1-25-1975; amd. Ord. 0-35-79, 8-20-1979)
   NOTICE OF APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT
Notice is hereby given that the preliminary plat of the subdivision shown
hereon has received approval by the City Council of the City of Darien,
Illinois, and upon compliance by the owner with the necessary requirements or
qualifications, the City Council will receive the final plat for consideration,
if submitted by the owner in such form and within such time as required by
Subdivision Regulations of the City of Darien. Unless this preliminary approval
and the conditions are accepted within ten (10) days, this approval is null and
void.
Application for final plat approval shall be made within one hundred eighty
(180) days, and in the event such application is not so made, the preliminary
plat approval hereby given shall be null and void and of no force and effect.
            City Council, City of Darien, Illinois
            Date    , 19      
            By    
   Mayor
            Attest:    
   City Clerk
   ACCEPTANCE:
   In consideration of the
   preliminary approval hereby
   given, the terms hereof are
   hereby accepted:
         
   Owner
         
   Attest:
      7.   Distribution Of Approved Prints: The six (6) approved prints of such
preliminary plat shall be distributed by the City Clerk as follows:
         (a)   Two (2) prints to the Plan Commission;
         (b)   One print to the City Engineer;
         (c)   One print shall be retained by the City Clerk for filing;
         (d)   One print shall be returned to the owner; and
         (e)   One print to the Public Works Supervisor.
      8.   Conditional Approval: Approval of the preliminary plat by the Plan
Commission and City Council shall be conditioned upon stipulations as set forth
in this Section.
   (C)   Preliminary Plat Requirements:
      1.   Identification And Description:
         (a)   Proposed name of subdivision not duplicating the name of any
plat heretofore recorded in DuPage County, Illinois.
         (b)   Location by section, township and range, and by other legal
description necessary to clearly locate and describe the subdivision area.
         (c)   A current survey prepared and certified by an Illinois
registered land surveyor showing the topography, the boundary lines and the
area being subdivided and all improvements drawn to a scale not smaller than
one inch (1") to one hundred feet (100').
         (d)   Names and addresses of the owner having control of the tract and
the surveyor who prepared the plat.
         (e)   North point (true point).
         (f)   Date of survey and preparation.
      2.   Existing Conditions:
         (a)   Boundary lines of proposed subdivision in accordance with
subsection (C)1(c) of this Section.
         (b)   Total acreage of subdivision.
         (c)   Existing zoning districts in proposed subdivision and adjacent
tracts.
         (d)   Location, widths and names of all existing or previously platted
streets or other rights of way showing type of improvement (if any), railroad
and utility rights of way, parks and other public open spaces, permanent
buildings and structures, easements and section and corporate lines within the
tract and to a distance of at least two hundred feet (200') beyond the tract.
         (e)   Location and size of existing sewers, water mains, culverts or
other underground facilities within the tract and to a distance of at least two
hundred feet (200') beyond the tract, also indicating such data as grades,
invert elevations and locations of catch basins, manholes and hydrants.
         (f)   Location map, if required by the Plan Commission, drawn at a
scale of not less than one inch equals one thousand feet (1" = 1,000'), showing
boundary lines of adjoining, unsubdivided or subdivided land within an area
bounded by nearest arterial streets or other natural boundaries, but not less
than one-half (1/2) mile beyond the subdivision boundaries in subdivisions
located beyond the City limits, identifying type of use and ownership of
surrounding land and showing alignments of existing streets.
         (g)   Topographic data including the location of watercourses, marshes
and other significant features and existing contours at vertical intervals of
not more than two feet (2'), except in unusual topographical conditions; such
vertical intervals may be required to be altered as determined by the City
Engineer. Topographical data shall refer to the United States Geological Survey
Datum. Soil boring data and seepage tests may be required at locations and
depth as determined by the City Engineer.
         (h)   Locations of or reference to locations of existing monuments or
survey markers used in preparation of survey and grade elevation of each
monument and marker.
         (i)   Letter of approval from DuPage County Soil and Water
Conservation District.
      3.   Proposed Subdivision Design Features:
         (a)   The proposed subdivision layout shall be in substantial accord
with the Official Plan as amended from time to time.
         (b)   Layout of streets showing right-of-way widths and street names
(not duplicating the name of any street heretofore used in the City or its
environs unless the street is an extension of or in line with an already named
street and provided it can be connected with such street in which event that
name shall be used) and showing proposed through streets extended to boundaries
of subdivision.
         (c)   Location and width of alleys, pedestrianways and easements.
         (d)   Layout, numbers, area in square feet and dimensions of blocks
and lots to the nearest foot.
         (e)   Building line and all dimensions from lot lines.
         (f)   The proposed City zoning districts for subdivisions to be
annexed.
         (g)   Areas (other than those listed in subsections (C)2(b), (C)2(c)
and (C)2(d) of this Section), if any, intended to be dedicated or reserved for
nonresidential purposes, indicating in each the approximate acreage and
proposed use. Such areas shall be designated by letter or number.
         (h)   Proposed location of sanitary sewers, storm sewers, drainage
courses and channels, methods of handling storm water, surface water disposal,
sewage disposal and waste disposal plans.
         (i)   No land will be approved for occupancy in a subdivision which is
subject to periodic flooding, which lies in flood plain areas as designated on
the most recent applicable flood maps of the National Topographic Map Series
published by the Geological Survey of the U.S. Department of Interior, or which
contains inadequate drainage facilities, unless the owner agrees to make all
necessary improvements and agrees to all required covenants which will, in the
opinion of the City Engineer, City Attorney and Plan Commission, be binding,
make such land safe for occupancy and provide necessary safeguards for adjacent
property which will be affected by the grading, drainage or other changes being
permitted or required for this subdivision.
   (D)   Land Improvement Plans And Specifications: After the approval of the
preliminary plat and prior to filing an application for approval of a final
plat, the owner shall submit to the City Clerk preliminary plans and
specifications prepared by a registered engineer for required land improvements
and detained grading plans of lots and blocks. The City Engineer and other
public officials having jurisdiction shall approve or disapprove such
preliminary plans and specifications or may set forth the revision necessary
for approval. (Ord. 0-21-71, 11-15-1971, as amended 1-25-1975; amd. Ord. 0-35-
79, 8-20-1979)
5B-1-6: FINAL PLAT PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Final Plat Procedures:
      1.   Within one year after approval of the preliminary plat by the Mayor
and City Council, the owner shall file an application for approval of the final
plat with the City Clerk. Such application shall be accompanied by the original
inked tracing on linen, vellum or plastic film, six (6) prints of the final
plat and six (6) copies of all required supporting data, drawings and
documents. The application shall be referred to the Plan Commission for its
recommendation and report. The final plat shall retain the design
characteristics of the approved preliminary plat, except that the Mayor and
City Council may require such changes or revisions as are deemed necessary in
the interest and needs of the City in keeping with the provisions of these
subdivision regulations. (Ord. 0-21-71, 11-15-1971, as amended 1-25-1975; amd.
Ord. 0-35-79, 8-20-1979)
      2.   In case application for approval of a final plat is made for a part
or parts of an approved preliminary plat the City Council may extend the time
for application of approval of final plats for other parts of the approved
preliminary plat until later date or dates beyond the foregoing one year
period.
      3.   Within ninety (90) days from the date of filing the last required
document or other paper, or within ninety (90) days from the date the
application for approval of the final plat was filed with the City Clerk,
whichever date is later, the Mayor and City Council shall, by resolution,
approve or disapprove such plat. Upon the adoption of the resolution approving
a final plat the City Clerk shall certify such approval and affix the Corporate
Seal of the City on the final plat.
      4.   Upon approval of the final plat by the Mayor and City Council, and
upon receipt of any remaining required documents, the City Clerk shall record
the final plat, providing the cost of recording has been paid by owner.
      5.   After recording, the original and one copy of the recorded plat and
one copy of all supporting data shall be retained in the City Clerk's files,
two (2) sets of such materials shall be retained by the City Engineer, and one
set shall be retained by the Public Works Supervisor.
   (B)   Final Plat Requirements:
      1.   General: All information required on the preliminary plat, except
that required in subsections
5B-1-5(C)2(c) to (C)2(h) inclusive of this Chapter, and subsections
5B-1-5(C)3(d), (C)3(e), (C)3(f) and (C)3(h) of this Chapter shall be shown
accurately and drawn with black waterproof drawing ink on linen, vellum or
plastic film in a manner so that clear and legible transparencies or contact
prints or photostatic copies can be made.
      2.   Identification And Description: The following shall be shown on
plats:
         (a)   Proposed name of subdivision.
         (b)   A full and detailed description of the land embraced in the
plat, showing the township and range in which such land is situated and the
sections and parts of sections platted, and in the case of replatting or
resubdividing, a description of the part of, and the name of, the original plat
which is replatted or resubdivided containing the name of the town, city,
village or addition platted, the name of the owner required to sign the plat
and the surveyor making it. If there is any excepted parcel within the plat
boundary it must be accurately described by metes, bounds and courses.
         (c)   Scale of plat as one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100').
         (d)   North point (indicating true north).
         (e)   Date of preparation.
      3.   Delineation Of Final Plat: The following shall be shown on final
plats:
         (a)   Boundary of the plat based on an accurate traverse, with all
angular and linear dimensions. Error of closure of such boundary survey shall
not exceed one in ten thousand (1 in 10,000) (1 foot for each 10,000 feet of
perimeter survey).
         (b)   All blocks, lots, streets, alleys, pedestrianways, easements and
building lines within or adjacent to the plat shall be shown. All of the above
shall have all angular and linear dimensions given and all radii, internal
angles, bearings, points of curvature, tangents and lengths of all curves. All
dimensions or data shall be required for any future relocation. All dimensions
shall be given to the nearest hundredth of a foot (1/100').
         (c)   True angles and distances to the nearest established official
monuments, not less than three (3) of which shall be accurately described on
the plat.
         (d)   Municipal, township or section lines accurately tied to the
lines of the subdivision by distances and angles.
         (e)   Block and lot numbers of all blocks and lots. Names of all
existing adjoining streets and all streets in the subdivision.
         (f)   Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any areas to be
dedicated or reserved for public use or for the exclusive use of property
owners within the subdivision.
         (g)   Location of all iron stakes and all permanent monuments required
by this chapter.
         (h)   Any protective covenants.
         (i)   Statements covering easement provisions.
         (j)   All other information required by state statutes.
In addition to all other requirements herein contained, there shall be
submitted with the final plat a document over the signature of the engineer or
surveyor who prepared such plat indicating the total square footage of each lot
shown on the final plat.
      4.   Certificates: The following certificates shall be on the final plat
when submitted:
         (a)   Owner's certificate.
         (b)   Notary's certificate of owners.
         (c)   Surveyor's certificate.
         (d)   County clerk's certificate on unpaid taxes.
         (e)   Plat certification by county board of supervisors if outside the
city.
         (f)   Sanitary district certificate on unpaid assessments.
         (g)   City engineer's certificate of improvements.
         (h)   City treasurer's certificate on unpaid assessments.
         (i)   Plan commission certificate.
         (j)   City council certificate of approval.
The application for approval of the final plat shall not be deemed completed
until all certificates, other than the city certificates, have been duly
executed.
      5.   Supporting Documents: The final plat shall be accompanied by the
following supporting documents prepared by a registered professional engineer
and based upon the conditions of approval of the preliminary plans and
specifications approved by the city engineer and other public officials having
jurisdiction, such approval to be certified on the final plat when submitted:
         (a)   Complete plans;
         (b)   Specifications; and
         (c)   Cost estimates of the improvements to be installed. (Ord. 0-21-
71, 11-15-1971, as amended 1-25-1975)
   (C)   Agreements And Performance Guarantee:
      1.   Sworn Statement: Any owner filing an application for approval of a
final plat shall submit a properly executed sworn statement and agreement
listing the public improvements he proposes to make at his expense in the
subdivision, the time of completion of said improvements and the method of
payment for the improvements. This agreement shall provide for:
         (a)   The method of selection of the contractors engaged to construct
the improvements;
         (b)   Require and provide for their approval by the city engineer; and
         (c)   Require them to submit evidence of insurance covering their
employees with companies and in amounts satisfactory to the city attorney.
These improvements shall be completed by the owner in accordance with plans and
specifications approved by the city engineer within three (3) years following
the approval of the final plat by the mayor and city council; all inspection
fees shall be paid by the owner and one set of specifications and the original
tracing of the improvement drawings corrected to show all actual "as-built"
improvements shall be filed with the city engineer and one set with the public
works supervisor prior to acceptance of the improvements by the mayor and city
council.
      2.   Security For Subdivision Improvements: Prior to the approval of any
final plat of subdivision, the applicant shall provide cash or an irrevocable
letter of credit in an amount equal to not less than one hundred ten percent
(110%) nor more than one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the full cost of
the improvements as estimated by the city engineer and conditioned on the
completion and acceptance by the city of all improvements. The form of the
security shall be approved by the city engineer who shall generally approve the
irrevocable letter of credit in the form set forth in section
5B-1-18, exhibit K, of this chapter. The applicant may provide a surety bond in
lieu of cash or an irrevocable letter of credit, but only when the city council
specifically approves that a surety bond may be provided in lieu of cash or an
irrevocable letter of credit and said surety bond is acceptable to the city
attorney. The form of the surety bond shall be approved by the city engineer
who shall generally approve the surety bond in the form set forth in section
5B-1-18, exhibit M, of this chapter.
The improvements to be covered by such security shall include, but not be
limited to, streets, streetlights and signals, sidewalks, required landscaping,
water facilities, storm and flood water runoff channels and basins and
structures, erosion, sediment control and land movement requirements and where
an essential part of the development, common recreational facilities. The
installation of sanitary sewers need not be secured so long as a comparable
security is posted with the governmental authority in charge of sewage
treatment.
      3.   Certification By City Clerk: The city clerk shall not certify the
approval of the city council on the final plat until the required security,
written evidence from the proper governmental agencies if other than the city,
of their willingness and ability to accept and maintain all dedicated areas or
improvements and any other undertaking, as required by this section, has been
filed. (Ord. 0-01-01, 1-15-2001)
   (D)   City Engineer's Services And Fees:
      1.   Cost Of City Engineer Review And Inspections: The cost for the
review of plans and specifications, conferences with the owner's engineers and
assistance by the city engineer of the city and inspection by the public works
supervisor shall be paid by the owner. The fee charged shall be in accordance
with the resume of fees and requirements for public improvements on file with
the city clerk and shall be paid prior to the final plat approval. All required
land improvements to be installed under the provisions of this title shall be
subject to periodic inspection by the public works supervisor or his duly
authorized representative. The cost for such periodic inspection service shall
be charged to the owner based on the resume of fees and requirements for public
improvements on file with the city clerk. The fee shall become due and payable
at such time as any construction is to be initiated on the project.
      2.   Additional Costs Of Inspection: Costs of inspections will include
the city's cost for personnel, equipment and material involved which will
result in an adjusted billing at the completion of the project and the cost of
obtaining the city engineer's review and recommended acceptance of land
improvements. (Ord. 0-21-71, 11-15-1971, as amended 1-25-1975)
      3.   Certificates Of Completion: Upon compliance of said improvements,
the owner shall file with the city clerk a statement by a registered Illinois
professional engineer that all construction has been in accordance with
engineering plans and specifications and meets the requirements set forth by
the city ordinances and practices. Upon review of this statement and periodic
inspection of the improvements, the city engineer shall file with the mayor and
city council a statement indicating the recommended acceptance or rejection of
said improvements on behalf of the city. If the improvements are accepted by
the city council, the improvements shall be considered complete and the
security released accordingly. (Ord. 0-01-01, 1-15-2001)
      4.   Delinquent Fees And Interest Due: Fees that are not paid within
thirty (30) days after the date they become due and payable shall bear interest
at the rate of eighteen percent (18%) per annum. (Ord. 0-40-84, 11-5-1984)
5B-1-7: GENERAL DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   (A)   General: Every subdivision approved shall be in accordance with all
applicable sections of the zoning ordinance and the comprehensive plan of the
city as now adopted or hereafter adopted or amended.
   (B)   Street Design Standards:
      1.   The Major Street Plan: The arrangement, character, extent, width and
location of all major and minor arterials and collector streets shall conform
to the major street plan of the city as approved by the city plan commission
and as adopted by the city council or hereafter adopted or amended.
      2.   Significant Traffic Generators: Where a subdivision of land is
designated for land uses which are significant traffic generators such as
stadiums, places of public assembly, public buildings, parks, multiple-family
dwellings, business, office and/or industrial complexes, the plan commission
may require, in addition to the major street plan, the provision of arterial
and/or collector streets along the boundaries of such uses or within the
proposed subdivision to provide for the safe and efficient movement of traffic,
and in respect to areas where on- street parking is expected and permitted.
      3.   Street Layout: The street layout shall be devised for the most
advantageous development of the entire neighborhood area. Where necessary to
the neighborhood street pattern, existing streets in adjoining subdivisions
shall be continued and shall be at least as wide as such existing streets and
in alignment with them. In addition, the street layout shall provide for the
future projection of principal streets into unsubdivided lands adjoining the
subject plat.
      4.   County, State Or Federal Roads, Highways And Expressways: Where a
subdivision contains or is abutting a county, state or federal road, highway or
expressway, the street design standards of the appropriate governmental
jurisdiction having the greater width and design standards shall apply.
      5.   Provision For Future Subdivision: If a tract of land is subdivided
into larger parcels than ordinary building lots, such parcels shall be arranged
to allow the opening of future streets and logical further subdivision in
accordance with the design requirements for lots and streets as set forth in
the zoning and subdivision ordinances.
      6.   Specifications For Streets: The development of streets within the
jurisdiction of the City shall conform to the following minimum standards.
 
                Right Of Way Pavement Width
Major arterial   200 feet     80 feet
Minor arterial   100 feet     60 feet
Collector street 80 feet      37 feet
Minor street     66 feet      30 feet
 
      7.   Sidewalks: Sidewalks shall be required on both sides of all streets
unless otherwise agreed by the City pursuant to a valid agreement and shall be
located one foot (1') from the property line and within the street right of
way. Sidewalks shall be four feet (4') wide in all single-family residential
districts and a minimum of five feet (5') wide in all other districts. Planting
strips shall be provided between the sidewalk and curb.
      8.   Alleys: Twenty four foot (24') right of way paved twenty feet (20')
wide.
      9.   Pavements, Curbs And Gutters, Sidewalks And Driveway Aprons: In
accordance with City standards and specifications.
      10.   Water Distribution And Sanitary Sewer System: In accordance with
the requirements of the City.
      11.   Storm Sewers Or Other Adequate Drainage Provisions: In accordance
with the requirements of the City.
      12.   Separation Strips: Provide a thick stand of permanent grass with
sufficient suitable soil to maintain growth. (Ord. 0-21-71, 11-15-1971, as
amended 1-25-1975)
      13.   Street Trees: Shall be required and shall be placed equidistant
between sidewalk and curb as provided by the Plan Commission as to distance
from any sidewalk or curb, and shall be spaced not more than fifty feet (50')
apart in all planting strips or as otherwise required by the Plan Commission.
Trees shall be of the approved varieties and not less than two inch (2")
caliper and shall be White, Blue and Green Ash, Thornless Honeylocust, Red
Maple, American Linden, Oak-Pine and Red, Hackberry, Cut Leaf Maple and Rubrum
Maple. No more than twenty five percent (25%) of the trees shall be of one
variety. (Ord. 0-13-84, 5-21-1984)
         (a)   Suggested Trees For Planting In Darien:
Major Thoroughfares And Commercial Property
(Relative Tolerance To Damage From Deicing Salts)
 
Austrian Pine        Black Pine
Colorado Blue Spruce Imperial Honeylocust
Norway Maple         Russian Olive
White Ash            White Poplar
 
Residential Parkways
(Same As Highway And Including)
 
Crimson King Maple Schwelder Maple
Hackberry          Ohio Buckeye
Beech:             Ash:
European           White
Copper             Green
Purple             Ginkgo (Male only)
Honeylocusts
 
Residential - Private
(Same As Highway And Parkway And Including)
Moraine Ash   Crabapple:
Birch:        Flowering
Canoe         Red Jade
River         Radiant
Cherry:       Maple:
European Bird Amur
Sergeant      Paperbark
Oak:          Tetarian
Northern Red  Autumn Flame Red
White         Tulip Tree
 
         List Of References:
            (1)   The Morton Arboretum, Lisle, Illinois, Webster R. Crowley,
Head Plant Information.
            (2)   Cooperative Extension Service, United States Department of
Agriculture, University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois, Gregory Stack (including
booklets).
            (3)   Village of Westmont, Department of Public Works.
            (4)   Village of Clarendon Hills, Department of Public Works.
Trees Not Recommended
(Should Be Prohibited)
 
Box Elder            Silver Maple
Tree of Heaven       Catalpa (all species)
Black Walnut         Common Mulberry
Black Cherry         Black Locust
Willow (all species) Chinese Elm
Eastern Cottonwood   American Elm
Sycamore              
 
      14.   Street Lighting: In accordance with City standards and design in
conformance with the proper section of these subdivision regulations.
      15.   Street Name Signs: In accordance with City standards at all
intersections.
   (C)   Block Design Standards:
      1.   In residential subdivisions the maximum length of blocks shall be
one thousand three hundred twenty (1,320) lineal feet. No blocks shall be less
than six hundred sixty (660) lineal feet in length unless approved by the Plan
Commission.
      2.   In manufacturing and business subdivisions, maximum length of blocks
shall be as approved by the Plan Commission.
      3.   The shape of blocks shall be determined by the Plan Commission after
consideration of topographical features, the basic street system and traffic
pattern, lot depths and areas designated for public and other nonresidential
land uses.
      4.   Where a subdivision borders upon or is traversed by a thoroughfare
the Plan Commission may require a frontage road for access on one or both sides
of such thoroughfare approximately parallel to it and at a distance removed
from it to provide suitable use for land served by such frontage road.
   (D)   Lot Design Standards:
      1.   Lots shall abut on a street.
      2.   Side lines of lots shall be at right angles to straight streets and
on radial lines on curved streets unless otherwise approved by the Plan
Commission.
      3.   Double frontage lots shall be avoided except that in residential
areas along thoroughfares lots shall face on the interior street with no access
to such thoroughfares. In that event a no-access strip at least twelve feet
(12') in width shall be provided along the rear of said lot and a planting
screen as approved by the Plan Commission shall be provided within said strip.
      4.   Minimum lot areas, dimensions and setback lines shall conform to the
provisions of the Zoning Ordinance for the district in which the subdivision is
located within the incorporated areas of the City. Lot sizes in those areas
outside the corporate limits of the City shall be in conformance with the
ordinance regulating lot sizes outside the corporate boundaries.
      5.   Corner residential lots shall be ten feet (10') wider than normal. A
residential lot abutting a corner lot shall be wider than the average interior
lot in order to permit a wider side yard adjacent to the corner.
      6.   Residential lots fronting on major and minor arterial streets shall
not be permitted.
      7.   Lots abutting upon watercourses, drainageways, channels or streams
shall have an additional depth or width as required by the City Engineer and
the Plan Commission in order to provide acceptable building sites.
   (E)   Easements:
      1.   Utility distribution or transmission installations serving the
subdivision, and when required, storm water drainageways, shall be located in
easements as designated on the subdivision plat of record. Such easements shall
be located along the rear lot lines or side lot lines at locations of
extensions of utility installations between blocks or to provide continuity of
drainageway. They shall occupy not less than the rear ten feet (10') of lot
depth on each lot and not less than six feet (6') adjacent to side lot lines
where necessary. Additional easements at other locations on the lot or
additional widths may be required for specific conditions by the City Council
on advice of the City Engineer.
      2.   Where a subdivision is traversed by a natural drainageway, channel
or stream there shall be provided a drainage easement conforming substantially
with the flood plain areas bordering such watercourse. The flood plain areas
shall be as determined by the City Engineer and approved by the City Council.
   (F)   Public Use Areas: When an area of land for public use, in addition to
streets, pedestrianways and utility easements, shall be required by the Plan
Commission to be located in whole or in part in a subdivision, the owner shall
designate on the preliminary plat and final plat such land to be dedicated for
public use.
   (G)   Topography, Natural Vegetation And Flooding:
      1.   Natural Features: In the subdivision of any lands within the
jurisdiction due regard shall be shown to preserve all natural features such as
tree growth, water courses and other similar elements which, if preserved, will
add attractiveness to the proposed development.
      2.   Natural Topography: The natural topography shall be retained, if
appropriate, to control and restrict runoff into adjoining properties.
      3.   Flood Elevations: Proposed first floor elevations of all buildings
shall be carefully studied and analyzed in relation to existing topography,
proposed street grades, existing twelve inch (12") or over caliper trees and
other pertinent site features and a report of such study by the owner shall be
given to the Plan Commission with the preliminary plat request.
      4.   Setback: Consideration may be given to varying the building setback
lines for the zoning districts for a subdivision in order to retain existing
topography, rock formations and large trees.
      5.   Questions Of Suitability: Where there is a question as to the
suitability of a lot or lots for the intended use due to the factors such as
rock formation, flooding conditions and similar conditions, the Plan Commission
shall consider withholding approval of such lots until the owner has
satisfactorily resolved such question. (Ord. 0-21-71, 11-15-1971, as amended 1-
12-1975)
      6.   Flooding: Any portion of the property being considered for
subdivision which is identified to be in flood plain, as determined from the
DuPage County Storm Water and Flood Plain Regulations, effective February 15,
1992 and as amended, shall comply with the appropriate provisions of Title 6B,
Chapter 1 of this Code for permitted uses and required improvements. (Ord. 0-
08-92, 2-3-1992)
      7.   Topsoil: No land shall be approved for subdivision which has had the
topsoil stripped or covered with fill unless such topsoil is adequately
replaced to a depth equal to that existing naturally, or to a minimum depth of
six inches (6"), whichever is greater, in areas not proposed for construction
of buildings or pavements.
   (H)   Cluster Development: In order to promote the health and general
welfare of the residents of the City and to preserve and make available open
space, the Plan Commission may grant an owner the right to vary the residential
density within a tract to be developed, leaving a substantial area free of
building lots; the right to vary shall be subject to the Planned Unit
Development section of the Zoning Ordinance. (Ord. 0-21-71, 11-15-1971, as
amended 1-12-1975)
   (I)   Dedication Of Private Streets As Public Streets: The City of Darien
does not encourage the dedication of private streets as public streets.
However, such dedication may be considered by the City Council if the following
conditions are met:
      1.   A public hearing before the Plan Commission shall be held.
      2.   The street in question shall meet a condition rating of ninety (90)
as determined by the Department of Public Works. All costs of upgrading a
street to this condition rating shall be paid by the street owner/owners.
      3.   Any street not constructed to the class "C" construction standards
for minor streets shall be rebuilt to this specification. All costs shall be
paid by street owner/owners.
      4.   Streets smaller than twenty seven feet (27') wide or without curb
and gutter shall not be considered unless rebuilt to fulfill this requirement.
      5.   City Council action to approve shall be by ordinance and approval of
plats of dedication.
   (J)   Maintenance Of Private Streets: Private streets shall be maintained by
their owners to a minimum condition rating of eighty five (85) as determined by
the Department of Public Works.
In order to encourage and help in the maintenance, the City will require the
contractor who has been awarded the City's annual street rehabilitation
contract to extend the same unit prices to the private street owners under a
separate contract. The City shall provide the contractor with a description of
the private streets covered by this and the names of the owners. The City will
also notify the street owners of this program, identifying the contractor and
encouraging them to take advantage of this program, if their street condition
so warrants it. (Ord. 0-59-87, 12-21-1987)
   (K)   Dirt Piles During Construction: Stockpiling dirt shall be permitted
while a subdivision is under construction; provided, that said dirt pile is
separated at least one lot from any existing home or any home under
construction. A dirt pile shall not encroach into the required front or rear
yard setbacks and shall not exceed a two (2) lot area. All stockpiled dirt
areas must provide erosion control by fencing or hay bales.
Stockpiled dirt must be leveled when construction of a subdivision is eighty
percent (80%) complete. (Ord. 0-26-91, 5-6-1991)
5B-1-8: DESIGN STANDARDS FOR LAND IMPROVEMENTS:
   (A)   General: The following standards are hereby required for all
subdivision improvements. The subdivision plans shall conform to standards that
will encourage good development patterns adopting the principles and standards
which are generally exhibited in the Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   Water Distribution System: The water distribution system shall be
installed to serve all properties within the subdivision and will include
pipes, fittings, hydrants with auxiliary valve, valves and valve vaults, water
service lines with a buffalo box or shut-off valve for the property to property
line for each lot.
      1.   Water Mains: Water mains shall be installed to conform with the
Comprehensive Water Plan of the City of Darien as adopted by the City Council
or as may be adopted or amended from time to time. All mains shall be a minimum
of six inch (6") diameter. Water main lines of eight inch (8") diameter or
greater are to be ductile iron pipe, cement lined or equal material as approved
by the City. Water mains will be located south of the north right- of-way line
or east of the west right-of-way line within the road right of way or on
dedicated easements. Water mains shall be buried not less than five feet (5')
below surface of the final grade as measured to the top of the pipe. A copy of
the water district system, including all mains, sizes, valve locations and
hydrants, shall be provided as built.
      2.   Water Hydrants: Water hydrants with auxiliary valves shall be
installed at intervals not to exceed four hundred feet (400'). Hydrants shall
be located south of the north right-of-way line or east of the west right-of-
way line within the road right of way. Valve boxes will be placed on all
auxiliary valves.
      3.   Valves: Valves shall be installed on mains at locations to minimize
inconvenience to customers served but in no case shall they be spaced greater
than eight hundred feet (800') apart. All valves must be placed in valve
vaults: valves of six inches to ten inches (6" to 10") in diameter, inclusive,
to be installed in a five foot (5') diameter vault; twelve inch (12") diameter
and above to be installed in a five foot (5') diameter vault. Valves shall be
located at the extension of the right of way at its intersection with the water
main wherever possible.
      4.   Curb Stops, Cocks And Boxes: Curb stops, cocks and boxes shall be
approved pattern of the inverted key type and extension type, respectively.
      5.   Water Service Pipe: All service pipe shall be Type K copper soft
tubing and joints shall be flared or wedged. Diameter of service shall be one
inch (1") minimum. Materials other than copper may be used if approval is given
by the Plan Commission and City Engineer.
      6.   Water Improvements: Construction of water improvements shall be in
accordance with the existing "Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois", and as amended and adopted by the City Council.
   (C)   Sanitary Sewer System: Sanitary sewer lines, including house service
sewer stubs to the property line for each lot, shall be installed to adequately
service all property in the subdivision.
      1.   Location Of Sanitary Sewer Lines: All sanitary sewer lines shall
conform to the Comprehensive Sanitary Sewer Plan of DuPage County. The sanitary
sewer lines will be located eight feet (8') north of the south right-of-way
line or eight feet (8') west of the east right-of-way line within the roadway
or on dedicated easements.
      2.   Design: Design of sanitary sewers shall conform to standards of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency as amended. Risers on house services
shall be provided where the sewer is greater than ten feet (10') below the
proposed ground elevation and shall be brought up to a depth minimum of ten
feet (10') below the proposed ground line.
      3.   Inspection: The City requires inspection by air tests and lamping of
all sanitary trucks and laterals. This inspection shall be conducted by an
independent contractor and shall be approved by the DuPage County Public Works
Department. Complete written reports shall be submitted to the City Engineer
and Public Works Supervisor for permanent records. Any and all expenses
incurred for this work shall be the responsibility of the owner. Records shall
include duplicate sets of photographs, sewer size, type, location, distance,
location of infiltration, sources of unsatisfactory joints and grade, all
services, etc.
      4.   Construction: Construction of sanitary sewer improvements shall be
in accordance with the existing "Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer
Main Construction in Illinois", and as required by DuPage County. (Ord. 0-21-
71, 11-15-1971, as amended 1-25-1975)
   (D)   Storm Drainage System: An adequate storm water management system shall
be designed and constructed to service the entire subdivision. It shall also
address all runoff upstream and tributary to the proposed development.
      The design criteria for the proposed storm water management system and
required engineering criteria to be submitted for review is stated in Title 6B,
Chapter 1 of this Code.
      All materials used in conjunction with the proposed storm water
management system shall comply to the Standard Specifications for Public
Improvements in the City of Darien, Illinois, as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 0-08-92, 2-3-1992)
   (E)   Public Utilities System:
      1.   Utilities Underground: All utility distribution lines for telephone,
electric and gas service in the subdivision shall be placed underground. Any
aboveground facilities shall require prior approval of the Plan Commission.
Installation of such facilities shall be made in compliance with the applicable
orders, rules and regulations of the Illinois Commerce Commission now or
hereafter effective and the owner shall be responsible for compliance with
rules and regulations, now and hereafter effective and filed with said
Commission pursuant to the Illinois Public Utilities Act, of any public utility
whose services shall be required for the subdivision with respect to the
provision of such underground facilities.
      2.   Underground Utilities In Easements: Underground telephone, electric
and gas service shall be placed within easements or dedicated public ways in a
manner which shall not conflict with other underground services. Further, all
transformer boxes shall be located so as not to be unsightly or hazardous to
the public.
      3.   Permits: Permits shall be obtained from the City of Darien and other
governing bodies having jurisdiction for the installation of communication,
electric power, gas and other utility services in public or private rights of
way or easements, as shown on the final plat.
   (F)   Sidewalk System: Sidewalks of minimum widths as required shall be
constructed and shall have a thickness of four inches (4"). Construction of
sidewalks shall be in accordance with existing "Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction, Illinois Department of Transportation" and with
the additional requirements of the City of Darien.
   (G)   Street System: All streets within the subdivision shall be improved
with a durable hard surface roadway. The pavement shall be equal to or superior
to a pavement consisting of the following requirements:
      1.   Street Plan: The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and
location of all streets shall conform to the Official Plan and shall be
considered in their relation to existing and planned streets; to reasonable
circulation of traffic within the subdivision and adjoining lands; to
topographical conditions; to runoff of sewer water; to public convenience and
safety; and in their appropriate relations to the proposed uses of the area to
be served. Streets and right-of-way widths shall conform to the Official Master
Plan adopted by the City.
         (a)   Curve Radius; Horizontal Center Lines: Where there is a
deflection in horizontal center lines within a given block at any given point
in excess of ten degrees (10°), a curve shall be inserted with a radius of not
less than:
 
Collector streets 300 feet
Minor streets     150 feet
 
         (b)   Curve Radius; Vertical Center Lines: Where there is a difference
in vertical center lines within a given block at any point in excess of six
degrees (6°), a curve shall be inserted with a radius of not less than:
 
Collector streets 300 feet
Minor streets     150 feet
 
         (c)   Alignment Of Minor Streets: Minor streets shall be so aligned
that their use by through traffic will be discouraged.
         (d)   Street Jogs: Street jogs with center line offsets of less than
one hundred twenty five feet (125') shall be avoided.
         (e)   Intersections: It must be evidenced that all street
intersections and confluences encourage safe and efficient traffic flow and, in
general, be at or near right angles, avoiding acute angles. An intersection of
more than two (2) streets shall be avoided unless specific conditions of design
indicate otherwise.
         (f)   Residential Alleys: Alleys are not permitted in residential
areas unless deemed necessary and approved by the Plan Commission.
         (g)   Cul-De-Sacs: Cul-de-sac streets in single-family residential
districts shall be not more than five hundred feet (500') in length, measured
along their center lines from the streets of origin to the end of their rights
of way, or may be longer than five hundred (500) lineal feet provided not more
than twenty (20) lots abut upon their right-of-way lines. In multiple-family
residential districts such streets shall not exceed three hundred feet (300')
in length. Roadway pavements in cul-de-sac street turnarounds shall have a
minimum diameter measured from faces of the outside curb or outside edges of
roadway pavement of one hundred feet (100') for all subdivisions and roadway
pavements in "T" type or other variations of the circular type terminus as
approved by the Plan Commission and the City Engineer.
         (h)   Half Streets: Half streets shall be prohibited except where the
City Council finds it practicable to require the dedication of the other half
of such street. Wherever an existing or dedicated half street is adjacent to a
tract to be subdivided, the other half of the street shall be platted within
such tract. A half street, where included, shall be graded at one level and the
regrading or new construction of any half street shall conform to the grade and
pavement of the adjacent half street.
         (i)   Access To Residential Property: Provisions shall be made for
vehicular and pedestrian access to residential property abutting arterial
streets either by providing: 1) marginal access streets, or 2) by backing lots
to the arterial street and providing access by a collector, minor or cul-de-sac
street one lot depth removed and with a visual barrier established in a
nonaccess reservation strip along the rear property line (abutting the arterial
street). These standards are established for the purpose of providing
protection to residential properties and to separate through and local traffic.
         (j)   Gradients: Gradients of streets shall be at least one-half
percent (0.5%) and not to exceed:
 
Collector streets 5 percent
Minor streets     7 percent
 
         (k)   Tangents: Tangents at least fifty feet (50') long shall be
introduced between reverse curves on collector streets.
      2.   Excavations: Sub-base earth excavation construction in accordance
with approved engineering plans to provide a stable sub-base no less than a CBR
value of 3.0; CBR tests shall be performed if, in the opinion of the City
Engineer, they are necessary to evaluate sub-base material.
      3.   Paving Standards:
         (a)   Types Of Construction Permitted: The following general types of
construction shall be permitted, according to the individual standards for
street classes indicated in subsections (G)3(b), (G)3(c) and (G)3(d) of this
Section.
 
Type 1 Portland cement concrete (PCC) with integral curb and gutter.
Type 2 Bituminous aggregate material base course with bituminous concrete
       binder and surface, Class I, and PCC combination curb and gutter.
       Stabilized aggregate base with bituminous concrete binder and surface,
Type 3 Class I, and PCC combination curb and gutter (aggregate may be
       stabilized by the addition of Portland Cement, asphaltic material or
       hydrated lime and fly ash).
Type 4 Gravel or crushed stone base course, Type A, with bituminous concrete
       binder and surface. Class I and PCC combination curb and gutter.
 
         (b)   Construction Standards For Major Streets:
            Type 1   Portland cement concrete with integral curb and gutter
shall have a minimum thickness of eight inches (8") reinforced with pavement
fabric. The subgrade shall be compacted.
            Type 2   Bituminous aggregate material base course shall have a
minimum compacted thickness of nine inches (9") and shall have two inches (2")
of bituminous concrete binder and one and one-half inches (11/2") of bituminous
concrete surface course and Class I with a Portland cement concrete combination
curb and gutter. The subgrade shall be compacted nongranular select borrow,
with a depth as required.
            Type 3   Stabilized aggregate base shall have a minimum compacted
thickness of ten inches (10") and shall have two inches (2") of bituminous
concrete binder and one and one- half inches (11/2") of bituminous concrete
surface course of Class I with a Portland cement concrete combination curb and
gutter. The subgrade shall be compacted nongranular select borrow, with a depth
as required.
            Type 4   Shall not be allowed.
         (c)   Construction Standards For Collector Streets:
            Type 1   Portland cement concrete with integral curb and gutter
shall have a minimum thickness of seven inches (7"). The subgrade shall be
compacted.
            Type 2   Bituminous aggregate material base course shall have a
minimum compacted thickness of seven inches (7") and shall have one and one-
half inches (11/2") of bituminous concrete binder and one and one-half inches
(11/2") of bituminous concrete surface course of Class I with a Portland cement
concrete combination curb and gutter. The subgrade shall be compacted.
            Type 3   Stabilized aggregate base shall have a minimum compacted
thickness of eight inches (8") and shall have one and one-half inches (11/2")
of bituminous concrete binder and one and one-half inches (11/2") of bituminous
concrete surface course of Class I with Portland cement concrete combination
curb and gutter with compacted subgrade.
            Type 4   Gravel or crushed stone base course. Base course Type A or
B shall have a minimum compacted thickness of twelve inches (12") and shall
have one and one-half inches (11/2") of bituminous concrete binder and one and
one-half inches (11/2") of bituminous concrete surface course of Class I with a
Portland cement concrete combination curb and gutter. The subgrade shall be
compacted.
         (d)   Construction Standards For Minor Streets:
      Type 1   Portland cement concrete with integral curb and gutter shall
have a minimum thickness of six inches (6"). The subgrade shall be compacted.
      Type 2   Bituminous aggregate material base course shall have a minimum
compacted thickness of five inches (5") and shall have one and one- half inches
(11/2") of bituminous concrete binder and one and one-half inches (11/2") of
bituminous concrete surface course of Class I with a Portland cement concrete
combination curb and gutter. The subgrade shall be compacted.
      Type 3   Stabilized aggregate base shall have a minimum compacted
thickness of six inches (6") and shall have one and one-half inches (11/2") of
bituminous concrete binder and one and one-half inches (11/2") of bituminous
concrete surface course of Class I with a Portland cement concrete combination
curb and gutter. The subgrade shall be compacted.
      Type 4   Gravel or crushed stone base course. Base course Type A or B
shall have a minimum compacted thickness of nine inches (9") and shall have one
and one-half inches (11/2") of bituminous concrete binder and one and one- half
inches (11/2") of bituminous concrete surface course of Class I with a Portland
cement concrete combination curb and gutter. The subgrade shall be compacted.
         (e)   Concrete Curb And Gutter Standards: Portland cement concrete
combination curb and gutter shall be not less than nineteen inches (19") in
width, measured from back of curb to flag of gutter. The curb shall be a
minimum of six inches (6") in height above the gutter. Curb and gutter shall
conform to State of Illinois Standard Design, Department of Transportation.
         (f)   Other Standards Required: The construction of streets and
combination concrete curb and gutter shall be in accordance with existing
"Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, State of Illinois,
Department of Transportation".
      Detail standards for street cross section and combination concrete curb
and gutter and all appurtenances shall conform to the Highway Standards adopted
by the State of Illinois, Department of Public Works and Buildings, Division of
Highway Bureau of Design. (Ord. 0-21-71, 11-15-1971, as amended 1-25-1975)
   (H)   Street Lighting System: All public ways within the subdivision shall
be adequately lighted by luminaries constructed in accordance with the lighting
standards set forth herein. The lighting system shall be designed and
constructed by the developer. The system shall be based on the following
criteria:
      1.   Horizontal Illumination:
 
Street Classification    Average Foot-Candles Value
Major and minor arterial 1.2
Collector                0.6
Minor                    0.4
 
      2.   Height And Fixture: Lighting standards shall be of a stress- spun
concrete precast butt type with the following requirements for height and
fixture:
 
                          Height
Street Classification     In Feet Fixture
Major and minor arterials 30-33   25,000-45,000 lumens, HP sodium, bracket-arm
                                  mounted, wattage 250-400 maximum
Collector                 23      13,000-25,000 lumens, HP sodium, bracket-arm
                                  mounted, wattage 150-250 maximum
Minor                     23      8,000-13,000 lumens, HP sodium, bracket-arm
                                  mounted, wattage 100-150 maximum
 
      3.   Circuits: The street lighting circuits shall be of the 120-240 volt
single-phase; triplexed; cross-linked polyethylene, 600 volt type insulation;
direct burial cable type, with the pedestal to lamp runs not smaller than #6
AWG (AL). The triplexed conductor shall run from the pedestal to the lamp
standard and shall run in a random lay method at a minimal depth of thirty two
inches (32") below the final established grade line and shall follow the back
lot lines, established side lot line easement or one foot (1') from the back of
curb outside of the pavement area on either side of the street or where such
installations would not be feasible at such other location as is approved in
writing by the City Engineer, but in all cases shall remain within the
dedicated right of way when laid parallel with the street. (Ord. 0-27-80, 8-4-
1980)
   (I)   Street Signs Identification: Street signs shall be erected so as to
identify every street within the subdivision and shall be so designed and
constructed as to conform with existing street sign standards. They shall be
installed at a height not less than seven feet (7') and shall be placed not
less than two feet (2') nor more than ten feet (10') from the edge of the
pavement. When a curved street blends into another street, street signs shall
be erected to identify each street.
   (J)   Landscape Development:
      1.   All unpaved or otherwise unimproved areas within the public right of
way or public use areas shall be graded and seeded in an approved manner.
      2.   Street trees shall be provided by the owner along all streets where
trees do not exist. Trees shall be of a species suitable for local soil and
climate conditions and adapted to street use at least two inch (2") caliper. At
street corners the trees shall be located a minimum of twenty five feet (25')
from the intersection of the street right-of-way lines. They shall be located
so as not to interfere with utilities or sidewalks and placed fifty feet (50')
apart. Trees shall be placed in the grassed area between curb and sidewalk
unless the space is less than six feet (6') wide or the City Engineer shall
determine they will interfere with sewers, water lines or underground
utilities, in which case the trees shall be planted on the lot.
      3.   In informal type street patterns, informal planting of street trees
in accordance with approved landscape development plans may be permitted.
      4.   All residential lots shall have an appropriate cover of undisturbed
existing vegetation, seeding, fresh cut sod, plugs or spot sod.
      5.   Median strips may be planted with trees and shrubs in accordance
with a landscaping plan approved by the Plan Commission.
   (K)   Monuments And Markers:
      1.   Permanent monuments consisting of steel pipes or bars not less than
three-quarters of an inch (3/4") in diameter and thirty six inches (36") long
encased in concrete at least four inches (4") in diameter and thirty six inches
(36") long shall be located as follows:
         (a)   At the intersection of all lines forming angles in boundaries of
the subdivision.
         (b)   At the intersection of street property lines and at the
beginning and end of all curves along street property lines.
         (c)   In slope areas at principal changes in alignment in the
boundaries of the subdivision.
      2.   Markers consisting of steel pipe or bars not less than three-
quarters of an inch (3/4") in diameter and thirty inches (30") long shall be
located as follows:
         (a)   At all points where lot lines intersect street right-of-way
lines.
         (b)   At all angles in the lot property lines.
         (c)   At all other lot corners.
      3.   Monuments and markers shall be provided by the owner and so placed
that the center point shall coincide with the intersection of lines to be
marked and the top level with the surface of the surrounding ground after final
grading. (Ord. 0-21-71, 11-15-1971, as amended 1-25-1975)
5B-1-9: ACCEPTANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS AND "AS-BUILT" DRAWINGS:
   (A)   "As-Built" Drawings: Upon completion of the various public
improvements, the owner's engineer shall prepare for the City "as-built"
drawings of all public improvements corrected to show actual dimensions and
location of all construction and supply the City Engineer with the corrected
original tracings which shall become the property of the City and one copy
shall be supplied to the Public Works Supervisor. Final acceptance and release
of bond or equivalent is contingent on this information.
   (B)   Acceptance Of Improvements: Upon completion of the required land
improvements and submission of the "as-built" drawings, the owner shall file
with the City Clerk a statement by a registered professional engineer that all
construction has been completed in accordance with the engineering plans and
specifications approved by the City and meets the requirements set forth by the
City. Upon review of the statement and periodic inspection of the improvements
providing they are satisfactory, the City Engineer shall file with the City
Council a statement indicating the satisfactory completion and acceptance of
said improvements on behalf of the City. Upon issuance of this statement and
the acceptance of the City Council the improvements shall be considered
complete and the bonds released accordingly. Standard documents to be filed
with the City Clerk shall include two (2) signed copies of an agreement between
the owner and the registered professional engineer representing the owner
indicating the general supervision of the construction of all facilities to be
done by said engineer and a statement that the contractor is responsible for
one year beyond final acceptance of such improvements by the City Council for
repairs and corrections which may be required of or on account of faulty
construction. (Ord. 0-21-71, 11-15-1971, as amended 1-25-1975)
   (C)   Maintenance Security Bond: At the time of final acceptance of the
public improvements by the City, the owner/developer shall provide a
maintenance security bond equal to ten percent (10%) of the final construction
cost of said public improvement in a form acceptable by the City. This
maintenance security bond shall be retained in full throughout the term of the
one year maintenance responsibility period at which time, providing said public
improvements are in good condition, it shall be returned to the owner/
developer. (Ord. 0-29-90, 5-21-1990)
5B-1-10: FILING FEES FOR PLATS:
Filing fees shall be as provided by the City of Darien ordinance providing for
fees for filing and hearings before the Plan Commission. (Ord. 0-21-71, 11-15-
1971, as amended 1-25-1975; amd. Ord. O-01-25, 1-20-2025)
5B-1-11: BUILDING CODES AND OTHER APPLICABLE ORDINANCES:
No building permit shall be issued by any governing official for the
construction of any building, structure or improvement to land or any lot
within a subdivision, as defined herein, which has been approved for platting
until all requirements of these Subdivision Regulations have been fully
complied with. (Ord. 0-21-71, 11-15-1971, as amended 1-25-1975)
5B-1-12: OCCUPANCY PERMIT:
No occupancy permit shall be granted by any governing official for the use of
any structure within a subdivision approved for platting or replatting until
required utility facilities have been installed and made ready to service the
property and until roadways providing access to the subject lot or lots have
been constructed or are in the course of construction and suitable for
vehicular traffic. (Ord. 0-21-71, 11-15-1971, as amended 1-25-1975)
5B-1-13: VARIATIONS AND AMENDMENTS:
   (A)   Variations: The Plan Commission may recommend variations from these
requirements in specific cases which, in its opinion, are in harmony with the
intent and purpose of the Comprehensive Plan and Official Map of the City of
Darien and in harmony with the intent of these Subdivision Regulations. Such
recommendations shall be communicated to the corporate authorities and, where
the land affected lies outside the corporate limits, to the DuPage County Board
of Supervisors, the Zoning and Plat Committee of the DuPage County Board of
Supervisors and the Plat Officer of DuPage County. The City Council may approve
variations from these requirements for subdivisions within the City limits or
for those where the land affected lies within the area of planning jurisdiction
as established by State statutes, when, in its opinion, such variations will
not be contrary to the purpose or intent of the comprehensive plan and official
map or the spirit of these subdivision regulations. (Ord. 0-21-71, 11-15-1971,
as amended 1-25-1975)
   (B)   Amendments: The Plan Commission may from time to time propose to amend
the standards and regulations contained within the subdivision regulations. In
addition, amendments may be proposed by the City or any other interested party.
The Plan Commission shall review any proposed amendment at a regular meeting or
special meeting called for that purpose and make its recommendations to the
City Council. (Ord. 0-42-89, 12-18-1989)
5B-1-14: ENFORCEMENT:
No plat of any subdivision shall be entitled to be recorded in the Recorder's
office of the DuPage County or have any validity until it shall have been
approved in the manner prescribed in these subdivision regulations. (Ord. 0-21-
71, 11-15-1971, as amended 1-25-1975)
5B-1-15: RECORD OF PLATS:
Copies of all plats of subdivisions, after the same have been submitted,
approved and recorded as provided by statutes and in these subdivision
regulations, shall be filed and kept by the City Clerk among the record of the
City of Darien. (Ord. 0-21-71, 11-15-1971, as amended 1-25-1975)
5B-1-16: VALIDITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of these subdivision
regulations is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of these subdivision regulations.
(Ord. 0-21-71, 11-15-1971, as amended 1-25-1975)
5B-1-17: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Anyone violating any of the provisions of these subdivision regulations shall
forfeit, upon conviction, to the city not less than ten dollars ($10.00) or
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation, plus the costs of
the action, and each day that such violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense. (Ord. 0-21-71, 11-15-1971, as amended 1-25-1975)
5B-1-18: EXHIBITS:
The following certificates are exhibits A through M:
Exhibit A –   Owner's certificate.
Exhibit B –   Notary certificate.
Exhibit C –   Surveyor's certificate.
Exhibit D –   County clerk's certificate.
Exhibit E –   State letter requirement.
Exhibit F –   Sanitary district certificate.
Exhibit G –   City engineer's certificate.
Exhibit H –   Certificate as to special assessments.
Exhibit I –   Plan commission certificate.
Exhibit J –   City clerk's certificate.
Exhibit K –   Irrevocable letter of credit.
Exhibit L –   Mayor's certificate.
Exhibit M –   Completion bond – undertaking in lieu of cash or irrevocable
letter of credit conditioned upon specific approval by the city council. (Ord.
0-01-01, 1-15-2001)
   EXHIBIT A
   OWNER'S CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
         ) SS
COUNTY OF DU PAGE   )
This is to certify that the undersigned is the owner of the land described in
the annexed plat and has caused the same to be surveyed and subdivided, as
indicated thereon, for the uses and purposes therein set forth, and does hereby
acknowledge and adopt the same under the style and title thereon indicated.
The undersigned hereby dedicated for public use the lands shown on this plat
for thoroughfares, streets, alleys and public services; and hereby also
reserves and grants easements for public use and for the installation of
various public utilities as designated and/or as stated in the utility easement
provisions stated hereon.
All easements indicated as public utility easements on this plat are reserved
for and granted to the City of Darien and to any entity operating under
franchise from the City including, but not limited to, Illinois Bell Telephone
Company, Northern Illinois Gas Company, Commonwealth Edison Company, a cable
television or communications company and their successors and assigns for the
perpetual right, privilege and authority to construct, reconstruct, repair,
inspect, maintain and operate various transmission distribution and collection
systems and all necessary lines, necessary personnel and equipment to do any of
the above work. The right is also granted to cut down, trim or remove any
trees, shrubs or other plants on the easement that interfere with the operation
of the sewers or other utilities. No permanent buildings or trees shall be
placed on said easements, but same may be used for gardens, shrubs, landscaping
and other purposes that do not then or later interfere with the aforesaid uses
or rights. Location of utility installations within the easement shall be
subject to the approval of the City of Darien as to design and location. All
installations are subject to the ordinances of the City of Darien.
               
               
               
               Address
Dated this                 day of                      , 19       .
(Ord. 0-21-71, 11-15-1971, as amended 1-25-1975; amd. Ord. 0-05-82, 2-15-1982)
   EXHIBIT B
   NOTARY CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
         ) SS
COUNTY OF DU PAGE   )
I,                           , A Notary Public in and for said county, in the
state aforesaid, do hereby certify that                           , personally
known to me to be the same persons whose names are subscribed to the aforesaid
instrument as such owners, appeared before me this day in person and
acknowledged that they signed the annexed plat as their own free and voluntary
act for the uses and purposes therein set forth.
Given under my hand and Notarial Seal this                 day of
                   , 19       .
               
               Notary Public
   EXHIBIT C
   SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
         ) SS
COUNTY OF DU PAGE   )
This is to certify that I,                           , Registered Illinois Land
Surveyor No.       , have surveyed and subdivided the following property:
   (Insert Legal Description)
as shown by the annexed plat, which is a correct representation of said survey
and subdivision. All distances are shown in feet and decimals thereof. I
further certify that all regulations enacted by the Mayor and City Council of
the City of Darien relative to plats and subdivisions have been complied with
in preparation of this plat. I further certify that the land is within the City
of Darien (or within one and one-half [1/2] miles of the corporate limits of
the City of Darien) which has adopted a City Comprehensive Plan and Map and is
exercising the special powers authorized by Division 12 of Article 11 of the
Illinois Municipal Code as amended. I further certify that the lands shown on
this plat are not situated within 500 feet of any surface drain or watercourse
serving a tributary area of 640 acres or more and this plat has been reviewed
by the Department of Public Works and Buildings for the purpose of determining,
for the protection of persons and property, the flood hazards involved and a
report thereon filed by that department with the Recorder of Deeds.
Given under my hand and seal at                 , Illinois, this
                day of 19       .
   EXHIBIT D
   COUNTY CLERK'S CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
         ) SS
COUNTY OF DU PAGE   )
I,                           , County Clerk of DuPage County, Illinois, do
hereby certify that there are no delinquent general taxes, no unpaid forfeited
taxes and no redeemable tax sales against any of the land included in the
annexed plat.
Given under my hand and seal at Weaton, DuPage County, Illinois, this
           day of                 , 19      .
               
               County Clerk
   EXHIBIT E
   STATE LETTER REQUIREMENT
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
         ) SS
COUNTY OF DU PAGE   )
To the best of our knowledge and belief the drainage of surface waters will not
be changed by the construction of such subdivision or any part thereof, or,
that if such surface water drainage will be changed, adequate provision has
been made for collection and diversion of such surface waters into public areas
or drains which the subdivider has a right to use, and that such surface waters
will not be deposited on the property of adjoining land owners in such
concentrations as may cause damage to the adjoining property because of the
construction of the subdivision.
Dated this                 day of                 , 19       .
               
   Engineer         Owner or Attorney
   EXHIBIT F
   SANITARY DISTRICT CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
         ) SS
COUNTY OF DU PAGE   )
I,                          , do hereby certify that the required letter of
credit is posted for the completion of the improvement covering sanitary sewage
system and/or sewer lines and domestic water supply system and/or distribution
lines under my jurisdiction based on approved engineer's plan and
specifications prepared by a registered engineer.
Dated this                 day of                 , A.D. 19       .
            
County Superintendent of Public Works Dept.
   EXHIBIT G
   CITY ENGINEER'S CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
         ) SS
COUNTY OF DU PAGE   )
I,                           , City Engineer of the City of Darien, Illinois,
hereby certify that the land improvements described in the annexed plat and the
plans and specifications therefor meet the minimum requirements of said City
and have been approved by all public authorities having jurisdiction therein.
Dated at Darien, DuPage County, Illinois, this                 day of
                , 19        .
               
               City Engineer
   EXHIBIT H
   CERTIFICATE AS TO SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
         ) SS
COUNTY OF DU PAGE   )
I,                           , City Treasurer of the City of Darien, do hereby
certify that there are no delinquent or unpaid current or forfeited special
assessments of any deferred installments thereof that have been apportioned
against the tract of land included in the plat.
Dated at Darien, DuPage County, Illinois, this             day of           ,
19     .
               
               City Treasurer
   EXHIBIT I
   PLAN COMMISSION CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
         ) SS
COUNTY OF DU PAGE   )
Approved by the Plan Commission of the City of Darien, DuPage County, Illinois,
this                 day of                 , 19       .
               
               Chairman
   EXHIBIT J
   CITY CLERK'S CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
         ) SS
COUNTY OF DU PAGE   )
I,                           , City Clerk of the City of Darien, Illinois,
hereby certify that the annexed plat was presented to and by resolution duly
approved by the City Council of said City at its meeting held on
                , 19       , and that the required bond or other guarantee has
been posted for the completion of the improvements required by the regulations
of said City.
In witness whereof I have hereto set my hand and the seal of the City of
Darien, Illinois, this                 day of                 , 19       .
               
               City Clerk
(Ord. 0-21-71, 11-15-1971, as amended 1-25-1975)
   EXHIBIT K
   IRREVOCABLE LETTER OF CREDIT
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
         ) SS
COUNTY OF DU PAGE   )
Whereas, the Statutes of the State of Illinois grant to a municipal corporation
the right to require that a developer constructing certain improvements within
the community guarantee the construction of such improvements by a current
Irrevocable Letter of Credit or cash; and
Whereas,                      desires to construct a residential development
within the City of Darien and that said municipality is willing to accept a
current Irrevocable Letter of Credit from a financial institution;
Now, Therefore, are the following representations made by the owner and/or
developer to the City of Darien, as follows:
1. That                     is the owner and/or developer of the property
legally described in Clause 2 of this undertaking, and shall hereinafter be
referred to as "Owner"; and, that the City of Darien shall hereinafter be
referred to as "Municipality".
2. That the Owner is the legal title holder or developer of the following
described property:
   (Insert legal description)
3. That the Owner shall be required to install and guarantee the installation
of streets, streetlights and signals, sidewalks, storm and flood water runoff
channels and basins and structures, erosion sediment control and land movement
requirements, required landscaping, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, and water
lines; provided, however, that with regard to sanitary sewer and/or water main
installations, the Municipality will accept as adequate security a separate
undertaking and irrevocable commitment, in a form acceptable to the City
Attorney, naming the County of DuPage as a secured entity in addition to the
Municipality. In order to guarantee that such facilities shall be installed,
the Owner shall submit to the municipal engineer such specifications and
estimated engineering costs as shall be required to meet with his approval. In
aiding the municipal engineer in determining the amount of reasonably
anticipated costs for the construction of such improvements, the Owner may
submit to the engineer signed contracts for the construction of such
improvements. The municipal engineer, upon determining that the design of the
required improvements are in accordance with good engineering practices, shall
estimate and certify an amount which shall represent one hundred ten percent
(110%) of the reasonably estimated cost of completing those improvements for
which the Municipality requires the posting of a completion guarantee.
4. That the Owner shall not be entitled to the issuance of Building Permits
until and unless said Owner shall submit to the Municipality an irrevocable
financial commitment from a bank, savings and loan or mortgage company approved
by the Municipality in the amount certified by the municipal engineer.
5. That the written irrevocable financial commitment shall be furnished to the
Municipality from a banking or lending institution in the form marked "Appendix
A" and appended to this Agreement.
6. That the Owner guarantees the workmanship of the public improvements to be
installed upon the site for a period of one (1) year after their donation to
the Municipality. Upon final completion of the streets, sidewalks, street
lights, sanitary sewers, storm sewers and water mains, the Owner shall execute
a Bill of Sale for those items which are personal property. For a period of one
(1) year after the granting of the Bill of Sale in the case of personal
property and the acceptance for maintenance in the case of streets and
sidewalks, all necessary repairs to such facilities shall be the responsibility
of the Owner.
In Witness Whereof                      has hereunto set his hand and seal this
      day of                   , 20       .
               
            Owner
               
            Owner
Approved by the City of Darien this                 day of                 , 20
      .
            By:    
               City of Darien
   (LETTERHEAD OF FINANCIAL INSTITUTION)
   APPENDIX "A"
                     , 2000
City of Darien
1702 Plainfield Road
Darien, Illinois 60561
Gentlemen:
We hereby establish our irrevocable credit in favor of  (developer) , or the
municipality of the City of Darien in the amount of                         
dollars ($            ). We understand that this irrevocable credit is to be
used to construct the following improvements in the residential development
known as                       to be constructed within the City of Darien,
Illinois:
streets; streetlights and signals; sidewalks; the portion of sanitary sewers,
storm sewers and water mains to become municipally owned; storm and flood water
runoff channels and basins and structures, erosion, sediment control and land
movement requirements; required landscaping; and common recreational
facilities.
The development is legally described as follows:
   (Insert legal description)
If we have not been notified by the municipality of a default by the owner and/
or developer, we shall disburse the funds for labor and materials furnished by
contractors in accordance with the sworn statement on order of the owner, the
submission of proper lien waivers from the contractors engaged in such work and
the certificate by the municipal engineer,                          , that such
work has been properly completed; provided, however, that we shall withhold
from each payment made under such sworn statement(s) or order(s) an amount
equal to ten percent (10%) thereof until all improvements have been completed,
except final surfacing of the streets and sidewalks, at which time the ten
percent (10%) sum withheld shall be disbursed less a sum equal to one hundred
twenty five percent (125%) of the cost of the final surfacing of the streets,
which sum shall be finally disbursed when that work has been completed and the
requirements of certification and lien waivers as has been hereinabove set out.
The required improvements shall be completed in accordance with the following
schedule:
   (Insert schedule)
If we receive a resolution of the corporate authorities of the City of Darien
indicating that the owner and/or developer has failed to satisfactorily
complete or carry on the work of the installation and construction of the
required improvements, and such resolution indicates that the owner and/or
developer has been notified that the municipality finds that a breach of the
owner's and/or developer's obligations has occurred and have not been cured
within a period of thirty (30) days, that in such case we shall make payments
for materials and labor to such contractor(s) or subcontractor(s) retained by
the municipality who have completed the improvements in substantial accordance
with the plans and specifications of the owner and/or developer; such payments
shall be made upon the certification of the municipal engineer that the work
has been completed and the submission of proper waiver of liens from the
contractor(s) or subcontractor(s). The amount of the payouts shall be in
accordance with the retention provisions as previously set out.
The irrevocable credit established by us shall be in force for a period of
           (            ) years, and shall remain in effect without regard to
any default in payments of sums owed us by the owner and/or developer and
without regard to other claims which we may have against the owner and/or
developer. Ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of this irrevocable credit
we shall notify the corporate authorities of the City of Darien, by registered
letter return receipt requested, of the impending expiration date. This
commitment shall not terminate without such notice. If the work covered by this
commitment has not been completed within the time set forth in this Agreement,
the municipality may at its option continue drawing funds as otherwise provided
for an additional period of one (1) year. It is recognized that the
municipality is according the owner and/or developer the permission to proceed
with the development project expressly upon the guarantee of the irrevocable
nature of this commitment. It is further acknowledged that the consideration
for this irrevocable commitment is provided by Agreements between this
financial institution and the developer. The sum of this credit shall, however,
be reduced in the amount of disbursements made from time to time in accordance
with the terms under which this credit is extended as set out above.
            
         Signature
(Ord. 0-01-01, 1-15-2001)
  
   EXHIBIT L
   MAYOR'S CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
         ) SS
COUNTY OF DU PAGE   )
Approved by the Mayor of the City of Darien, DuPage County, Illinois this
        day of                , 19      .
               
               Mayor
(Ord. 0-21-71, 11-15-1971, as amended 1-25-1975)
   EXHIBIT M
   COMPLETION BOND
   UNDERTAKING IN LIEU OF CASH OR IRREVOCABLE LETTER OF
   CREDIT CONDITIONED UPON SPECIFIC APPROVAL BY THE CITY
   COUNCIL
(The completion bond shall be acknowledged before a notary public by the
principal and surety and shall be substantially the same form.)
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, THAT: WE,                               s
principal and as surety, are firmly bound to the City of Darien, Illinois, in
the penal sum of $              , lawful money of the United States of America;
for the payment of such sum, well and truly to be made, we bind ourselves, our
heirs, executors, administrators and assigns, jointly and severally, by these
presents.
The condition of the above obligation is such that:
WHEREAS,                      has obtained, according to law and ordinances of
the City of Darien, approval of the Plat of                      being a
Subdivision of                      in DuPage County, Illinois, conditioned
upon (a) by                      date, the making of certain land improvements
to wit:                     as more fully described in plans dated
                    and prepared by                     ; (b) the execution and
delivery of this bond.
NOW, if the said                      shall well and faithfully and in good and
workmanlike manner of good materials according to law and ordinances of the
City of Darien and in conformity with said plans dated                     ,
construct said improvements and pay all inspection fees payable to said City by
reason of such construction;
THEN THIS OBLIGATION shall be null and void; otherwise the same shall remain in
full force and effect.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we have hereunto set our hands and seals this           
day                     , 20     .
            
         Principal
            
         Surety
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
         ) SS
COUNTY OF DU PAGE   )
I,                     , a Notary Public in and for said County, in the State
aforesaid, do hereby certify that                     , personally known to me
to be the same persons whose names are subscribed to the foregoing instrument,
appeared before me this day in person and acknowledged that they signed the
above instrument as their own free and voluntary act for the uses and purposes
therein set forth.
Given under my hand and Notarial Seal this       day of                     ,
20     .
            
         Notary Public
(Ord. 0-01-01, 1-15-2001)
CHAPTER 2
LAND AND CASH DONATIONS
SECTION:
5B-2-1: Dedication Of Park Lands And School Sites And Cash Payments In Lieu Of
Land Dedications
5B-2-2: Criteria For Requiring Park And Recreation Land Dedication
5B-2-3: Criteria For Park And Recreation Sites
5B-2-4: Criteria For Requiring School Site Dedication
5B-2-5: Cash Contribution In Lieu Of Park And School Sites
5B-2-6: Density Formula
5B-2-7: Reservation Of Additional Land
5B-2-8: Combining With Adjoining Developments
5B-2-9: Topography And Grading
5B-2-10: Improved Sites
5B-2-11: Title To Sites
5B-2-12: Voluntary Contributions And Waiver Of Ordinance Requirements
5B-2-13: City Policy Regarding Contributions Upon Annexation
5B-2-1: DEDICATION OF PARK LANDS AND SCHOOL SITES AND CASH PAYMENTS IN LIEU OF
LAND DEDICATIONS:
As a condition of approval of a final plat of subdivision or of a final plat of
planned unit development, each subdivider or developer is required to dedicate
land for park and recreational purposes and land for school sites to serve the
immediate and future needs of the residents of the development, or to make cash
contributions in lieu of actual land dedication, or a combination of both, at
the option of the City, in accordance with the following criteria and formulas.
(Ord. 0-56-87, 12-7-1987)
5B-2-2: CRITERIA FOR REQUIRING PARK AND RECREATION LAND DEDICATION:
   (A)   Requirements And Population Ratio: The ultimate density of a proposed
development shall bear directly upon the amount of land required for
dedication. The total requirement for park and recreation land dedication shall
be five and five-tenths (5.5) acres of land per one thousand (1,000) of
ultimate population of a proposed development in accordance with the following
classifications:
Types Of Recreation Areas Size Range Minimum Acres Per 1,000 People
Types Of Recreation Areas  Size Range                Minimum Acres Per 1,000
                                                     People
Play lot                   Minimum 8,000 square feet n/a
School-park                Minimum park of 5 acres   1.0
(Neighborhood playground)
Neighborhood park          Minimum 5 acres           1.0
District-wide park or play Minimum 20 acres          1.25
field
Community-wide recreation  Minimum 30 acres          2.0
park                                                                      
                          Total                     5.5 acres of land per
                                                     1,000 people
 
The amount of land to be dedicated shall be determined by dividing the
estimated population of the proposed development by one thousand (1,000) and
multiplying the quotient times five (5) and one-half (1/2) acres of park land
required by each one thousand (1,000) people. (Ord. 0-56-87, 12-7-1987)
5B-2-3: CRITERIA FOR PARK AND RECREATION SITES:
   (A)   Location: The City plans in conjunction with local park district plans
shall be used as a guideline in locating park sites. A central location which
will serve equally the entire development is most desirable. In large
developments, these sites can be located throughout the development according
to established standards for park area developments. There may also be
situations where a site adjacent to an existing or future park site is most
desirable.
   (B)   Credit For Private Open Spaces And Recreation Areas: When subdividers
or developers provide their own open space for recreation areas and facilities,
it has the effect of reducing the demand for local public recreational
services. Depending on the size of the development, a portion of the park and
recreation area in subdivisions or planned unit developments may, at the option
of the City Council, be provided in the form of "private" open space in lieu of
dedicated "public" open space. The extent of same shall be determined by the
City Council based upon the needs of the projected residents and in conformance
with the "Standards for Park and Recreation Open Space" which is incorporated
herein and made a part hereof by reference.
In general, a substitution of private open space for dedicated parks requires a
substantially higher degree of improvement and the installation of recreational
facilities, including equipment by the developer as part of his obligation.
Detailed plans of such areas, including specifications of the facilities to be
installed, must be approved by the City in accordance with the "Standards for
Park and Recreation Open Space". Before any credit is given for private
recreation areas, the subdivider or developer must guarantee that these private
recreation areas will be permanently maintained for such use by the execution
of the appropriate legal documents. When an adjustment for private recreation
areas is warranted, it will be necessary to compute the total park land
dedication that would have been required from the subdivision or planned unit
development and then subtract the credit to be given; provided, however, in no
event shall the credit exceed fifty percent (50%) of the total park land
dedication that would have been required.
   (C)   Buildable Area: The land to be dedicated shall be appropriate for park
and recreation purposes. Each park site shall include a buildable two hundred
foot (200') by two hundred fifty foot (250') site for a park building and a one
hundred fifty foot (150') by one hundred fifty foot (150') site for tennis
courts with uniform soil bearing capacity of at least three thousand (3,000)
psf based on soil boring data to be furnished by the subdivider or developer.
Such buildable areas shall be a minimum of three feet (3') above the flood
crest elevation of a 100-year frequency rainfall to assure adequate protection
of such buildable areas and the improvements constructed thereon from flooding
hazards.
   (D)   Improvements: Each park site shall be located on a fully improved
street, with sewer, water, electric and gas facilities available at the
property lines. Enclosed drainage, curb and gutter and streetlights shall be
included if otherwise required for the subdivision or development. At least
twenty percent (20%) of the perimeter of the site shall have direct access to a
fully improved street, and at least two (2) access routes or easements shall be
provided. Any pedestrian access route or easement shall be at least thirty feet
(30') wide and any vehicle access route or easement shall be at least fifty
feet (50') wide.
   (E)   Topography: Each park site (other than play lots) shall have
sufficient level areas, uninterrupted by streams and drainage ditches, to
permit its development for football and baseball fields without additional
expense for rough grading, and without the infields of baseball fields
overlapping the football fields. The entire site shall be rough-graded to
provide adequate storm water runoff so that there will be no storm water
standing within any required buildable area, or on any play field area, and the
overland flow rate shall be determined in accordance with the rational method
based on a 100-year frequency rainfall as defined by the U.S. Department of
Agriculture. Adequate clay seals with overlapping topsoil shall be placed upon
exposed peat areas within any required play field areas. Where low, swampy land
is to be considered for dedication by the developer, he shall provide an
adequate outlet complying with all codes and regulations, or if not drainable,
the areas shall be deepened to a depth suitable for the proposed use (to be
negotiated for each condition). The slope, topography and geology of the
dedicated site as well as its surroundings must be suitable for its intended
purposes, and shall conform to the standards of the applicable park district.
Grading on sites dedicated for park and recreation uses shall not differ
greatly from surrounding land.
   (F)   Special Requirements For Park Sites Which Include Storm Water
Detention Or Retention Areas: Water impoundment areas included in a park site
to be dedicated shall meet the following requirements in addition to any other
requirements imposed by the City or other public bodies having jurisdiction:
      1.   The edges of the pond above the low water mark shall be sloped for
ease of maintenance with ordinary equipment.
      2.   Adequate overflow channels and structures shall be provided meeting
all requirements of the various public bodies having jurisdiction of these
water impoundments. Further, such channels and structures shall be designed and
constructed so as to prevent soil erosion and sedimentation under ordinary
flood conditions and to minimize soil erosion and sedimentation under
extraordinary flood conditions (100-year frequency rainfall).
      3.   At least sixty feet (60') of space shall be provided between static
water lines of ponds and the lot lines of adjacent subdivision.
      4.   There shall be at least a two hundred foot (200') suitable roadway
access around the impoundment at high water level, wide enough for maintenance
and emergency equipment. The roadway shall conform to the specifications set
forth in the "Standards for Park and Recreation Open Space".
   (G)   Minimum Size Requirements For Park Sites Which Include Storm Water
Detention Areas: The minimum size of any park site which includes storm water
detention areas shall be five (5) acres. No more than fifty percent (50%) of
such park site shall hold water during a "100-year rainfall". At least thirty
percent (30%) of the available high ground within such a park site shall be of
sufficient size, shape and quality to provide recreational facilities,
playgrounds, picnic areas and/or play fields.
   (H)   Minimum Size Requirements For Park Sites Which Include Storm Water
Retention Areas: The minimum size of any park site which includes storm water
retention areas shall be five (5) acres. No more than one-third (1/3) of such
park site shall hold water during a "100-year rainfall". At least fifty percent
(50%) of the site must be of good high ground of sufficient size, shape and
quality to provide adequate recreational facilities, playgrounds, picnic areas
and/or play fields. The lake contours must be approved by the applicable park
district for aesthetic quality, safety and recreational functionability (i.e.,
ice skating, fishing, etc.) and by the City Engineer for hydraulic quality. The
banks shall be protected by riprap placed and secured above and below the
static water level and sodded above the high water level, all in conformance
with current State of Illinois Highway Department specifications. Each lake
shall be tapered and terraced for safety and shall conform to the
specifications set forth in the "Standards for Park and Recreation Open
Spaces". (Ord. 0-56-87, 12-7-1987)
5B-2-4: CRITERIA FOR REQUIRING SCHOOL SITE DEDICATION:
   (A)   Requirement And Population Ratio: The ultimate number of students to
be generated by a subdivision or planned unit development shall bear directly
upon the amount of land required to be dedicated for school sites. The land
dedication requirement shall be determined by obtaining a ratio of: 1)
estimated children to be served in each of the following described school
classifications over the 2) maximum recommended number of students to be served
in each such school classification as stated herein, and then applying such
ratio to the 3) minimum recommended number of acres for a school site of each
such classification as stated herein. The product of such calculation shall be
the acres of land deemed necessary to have sufficient land for school sites to
serve the estimated increased number of school children generated by such
subdivision or planned unit development in each such school classification.
   (B)   School Classifications And Size Of School Site: School classifications
and size of school sites within the City and within the City's subdivision
jurisdiction shall be determined in accordance with the following criteria:
 
School Classification:   Maximum Number Of Students Minimum Number Of Acres Of
Grades                   For Each Such School       Land For Each School Site
                         Classification             For Such  Classification
Elementary schools,
grades - kindergarten    600 students               11 acres
through 5 (K-5)
Junior high schools,     900 students               19 acres
grades 6 through 8 (6-8)
High schools, grades 9   2,300 students             48 acres
through 12 (9-12)
 
   (C)   Location: The comprehensive school plan and/or the standards adopted
by the affected school district shall be used as a guideline in locating school
sites. (Ord. 0-56-87, 12-7-1987)
5B-2-5: CASH CONTRIBUTION IN LIEU OF PARK AND SCHOOL SITES:
   (A)   Criteria For Requiring Cash Contributions: When the development is
small and the resulting site is too small to be practical, when the available
land is inappropriate for park and recreational purposes or a school site, or
when existing local park and recreation land or an existing school site already
serves the immediate or future needs of children from that development, the
city shall require the subdivider or developer to pay a cash contribution in
lieu of the land dedication required.
   (B)   Expenditures Of Cash Contributions In Lieu Of Park Sites: The cash
contributions in lieu of park and recreation land dedication shall be held in
trust by the city, or other public body designated by the city, solely for the
acquisition of park and recreation land as hereinbefore classified, which will
be available to serve the immediate or future needs of the residents of that
subdivision or development or for the improvement of other existing local park
and recreation land which already serves such needs. In support of the receipt
and expenditure of such contributions, the public body receiving cash
contributions in lieu of park sites shall submit a comprehensive plan to the
city showing existing and planned park sites which serve the immediate or
future needs of the residents of the future subdivisions or developments in the
city or within the city's subdivision jurisdiction.
   (C)   Expenditures Of Cash Contributions In Lieu Of School Sites: The cash
contributions in lieu of school sites shall be held in trust by the city, or
other public body designated by the city, solely for use in the acquisition of
land for a school site to serve the immediate or future needs of children from
that subdivision or development, for the improvement to any existing school
site which already serves such needs, or to reimburse the cost previously
incurred for the acquisition or improvement of an existing school site which
already serves such needs, but not for the construction of any school buildings
or additions thereto or reimbursement of the cost thereof. In support of the
receipt and expenditure of such contributions, the public body receiving such
contributions in lieu of school sites shall submit a comprehensive plan to the
city showing existing and planned school sites which serve the immediate or
future needs of the residents of the future subdivisions or developments in the
city or within the city's subdivision jurisdiction.
   (D)   Accounting For Cash In Lieu Of Land Contributions: Each public body
receiving cash in lieu of land contributions for the purposes set forth herein
shall account to the city on an annual basis as to the receipt and disposition
of such funds by submitting an annual report from the public body's auditor
showing, as to each development making contributions hereunder, the receipt of
trust funds, the distribution of trust funds, the purpose for which trust funds
were used or distributed and the fund balance of all trust funds received under
this chapter.
   (E)   Refund Of Cash In Lieu Of Land Contributions: If any portion of a cash
contribution in lieu of park and recreation land dedication, or cash
contribution in lieu of school site dedication is not expended for the purposes
set forth herein within ten (10) years from the original date of receipt of
such contribution, the public body holding such contribution shall refund such
contribution to the owners of record of all lots, except lots dedicated
pursuant to the provisions of this section, in the subdivision for which such
contribution was made not later than eleven (11) years after the original date
of receipt of the contribution. The refund shall be paid to the person who is
the owner of record on the day which is the tenth anniversary of the receipt of
such contribution. The amount of the refund due to each lot owner shall be
equal to the amount of the original contribution, together with accrued
interest thereon, divided by the total number of lots in the subdivision
(excluding only those lots which were dedicated pursuant to this section) for
which such contribution was made. For the purpose of refunds under this
chapter, "accrued interest" shall be calculated based upon the passbook rate of
interest prevailing from time to time at the city's main depository bank. (Ord.
0-56-87, 12-7-1987)
   (F)   Fair Market Value: The cash contributions in lieu of land shall be
based on the fair market value of the acres of land in the area, improved as
specified herein, that otherwise would have been dedicated as park and
recreation and school sites. It has been determined that the present fair
market value of such improved land in and surrounding the city is one hundred
sixty six thousand five hundred dollars ($166,500.00) per acre and such figure
shall be used in making any calculation herein unless the subdivider, developer
or benefiting public body files a written objection thereto. In the event of
any such objection the objector shall submit an appraisal showing the fair
market value of such improved land in the area of such development or other
evidence thereof and final determination of said fair market value per acre of
such improved land shall be made by the city council based upon such
information submitted by the objector or which may be obtained from other
sources and submitted to the city council by other interested persons or
entities. The dollar amount set forth herein shall be reviewed every three (3)
years to determine whether said dollar amount shall be amended to reflect the
then current fair market value of said improved land. (Ord. 0-14-07, 4-2-2007)
   (G)   Timing Of Cash Contributions: Cash contributions in lieu of land shall
be paid after approval of the final plat of subdivision or planned unit
development, but before such plat is recorded with the DuPage County recorder
of deeds.
   (H)   Criteria For Requiring Dedication And A Fee: There will be situations
in subdivisions or planned unit developments when a combination of land
dedication and a contribution in lieu of land are both necessary. These
occasions will arise when:
      1.   Only a portion of the land proposed as the location for a park or
school site falls within the subdivision. That portion of the land within the
subdivision falling within the park or school location shall be dedicated as a
site as aforesaid, and a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be required
for any additional land that would have to be dedicated;
      2.   A major part of the local park or recreation site or school site has
already been acquired and only a small portion of land is needed from the
development to complete the site. The remaining portions shall be required by
dedication, and a cash contribution in lieu of land shall be required for any
additional land that would have to be dedicated. (Ord. 0-56-87, 12-7-1987)
5B-2-6: DENSITY FORMULA:
The following table of population density is generally indicative of current
and short range projected trends in family size for new construction and shall
be used in calculating the amount of a required dedication of acres of land or
the cash contribution in lieu of land unless a written objection thereto is
filed by the subdivider or developer:
TABLE OF ESTIMATED ULTIMATE POPULATION PER DWELLING UNIT
Children Per Unit
Type Preschool   Elementary    Junior High   (Total) (Grades K–8)High School Grades 9–12Adults Total
Of   0–4 Years Grades K–5  Grades 6–8  (5–13 Years)        14–17 Years            18 And Per
Unit             5–10 Years  11–13 Years                                                Up     Unit
Children Per Unit
Type Of    Preschool   Elementary    Junior High   (Total) (Grades K–8)High School Grades 9–12Adults Total
Unit       0–4 Years Grades K–5  Grades 6–8  (5–13 Years)        14–17 Years            18 And Per
                       5–10 Years  11–13 Years                                                Up     Unit
Detached
single-                                                                                             
family:
2 bedroom  0.125       0.120         0.026         (0.146)               0.018                    1.700  1.989
3 bedroom  0.308       0.381         0.174         (0.555)               0.146                    1.978  2.987
4 bedroom  0.472       0.513         0.314         (0.827)               0.313                    2.195  3.807
5 bedroom  0.402       0.620         0.420         (1.040)               0.327                    2.650  4.419
Attached single-family:
1 bedroom  ---         ---           ---           (---)                 ---                      1.050  1.050
2 bedroom  0.051       0.075         0.011         (0.086)               0.021                    1.741  1.899
3 bedroom  0.217       0.212         0.022         (0.234)               0.051                    1.775  2.277
4 bedroom  0.333       0.316         0.166         (0.482)               0.180                    2.333  3.328
Apartments:
Efficiency ---         ---           ---           (---)                 ---                      1.000  1.000
1 bedroom  ---         ---           ---           (---)                 ---                      1.190  1.190
2 bedroom  0.038       0.065         0.021         (0.085)               0.035                    1.500  1.659
3 bedroom  0.208       0.157         0.037         (0.194)               0.082                    2.330  2.814
 
Note:   There are only 3 significant categories provided in this chart. Because
of the similarity of yields of all types of attached single-family, only 1
category is provided. The same is true with apartments, thus only 1 category.
Because of the short history of some newer types of single units, both detached
and attached individual evaluations may be necessary.
In the event a subdivider or developer files a written objection to the
foregoing Table of Estimated Ultimate Population, he shall submit his own
demographic study showing the estimated additional population to be generated
from the subdivision or planned unit development. The final determination of
the density formula to be used in such calculations shall be made by the City
Council based upon such demographic information submitted by the subdivider or
developer and by the park districts, school districts or others. It is
recognized that population density, age distribution and local conditions
change over the years, and the specific formula for the dedication of land or
the payment of cash contributions in lieu of land, as stated herein, is subject
to periodic review and amendment if necessary. (Ord. 0-30-88, 9-6-1988)
5B-2-7: RESERVATION OF ADDITIONAL LAND:
Where the Comprehensive Plan or Official Map of the City calls for a larger
amount of park and recreation land in a particular proposed subdivision or
planned unit development than the developer is required to dedicate, the land
needed beyond the developer's contribution shall, if so determined by the City
Council, be designated for such purposes and reserved for subsequent purchase
by the City or other public body designated by the City, provided that such
body shall acquire the land so designated by purchase or commence proceedings
to acquire such land by condemnation within one year from the date of approval
of the final plat for such subdivision or planned unit development. (Ord. 0-56-
87, 12-7-1987)
5B-2-8: COMBINING WITH ADJOINING DEVELOPMENTS:
Where the subdivision or planned unit development is less than forty (40)
acres, public open space or a school site which is to be dedicated should,
where possible, be combined with dedications from adjoining developments in
order to produce usable recreation areas or school sites without hardship on a
particular developer. (Ord. 0-56-87, 12-7-1987)
5B-2-9: TOPOGRAPHY AND GRADING:
The slope, topography and geology of the dedicated site as well as its
surroundings must be suitable for its intended purposes. Grading on sites
dedicated for park and recreational uses shall not differ greatly from
surrounding land. (Ord. 0-56-87, 12-7-1987)
5B-2-10: IMPROVED SITES:
All sites shall be dedicated in a condition ready for full service of
electrical, water, sewer and street (including enclosed drainage and curb and
gutter) facilities as applicable to the location of the site, or acceptable
provision made therefor. The sidewalks and trees normally included within the
definition of improved sites may be deleted due to the delay time between
dedication of any such school sites and construction of school facilities
thereon. (Ord. 0-56-87, 12-7-1987)
5B-2-11: TITLE TO SITES:
All sites shall be conveyed to the City, or other public body designated by the
City, either by warranty or trustee's deed. The subdivider or developer shall
be responsible for conveying good, merchantable title to such sites, and shall
be responsible for payment of all real estate taxes to the date of conveyance,
including any agricultural roll back taxes which might be extended or levied
against such sites, for any tax years or periods prior to the time of
conveyance. (Ord. 0-56-87, 12-7-1987)
5B-2-12: VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS AND WAIVER OF ORDINANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Written Agreement: A developer may enter into a written agreement with
any or all of the park districts and/or school districts which will serve the
recreational and school needs of the ultimate residents of the proposed
subdivision or planned unit development providing for voluntary contributions
intended to satisfy, in whole or in part, the requirements stated above. Such
agreement may include, but is not limited to, the following provisions:
      1.   Contributions of cash or land;
      2.   Deferral of cash or land contributions or installment payments of
contributions;
      3.   Security for performance of the agreement;
      4.   Limitations or conditions to the use or disposition of cash or land
contributions;
      5.   Whether the contributions stated in the agreement are intended to
satisfy, in whole or in part, the developer's obligations stated above to
dedicate land for park and school sites, or to contribute cash in lieu of land
for the acquisition or improvement of park and school sites;
      6.   Recording of the agreement with the DuPage County Recorder of Deeds.
   (B)   Negotiated Contributions Satisfying Chapter Requirements: Any written
agreement between a developer and any or all of the park districts or school
districts affected by a proposed development which purports to satisfy the
requirements provided herein for dedication of land or contribution of cash in
lieu of land is subject to approval by the City. If, in the sole discretion of
the City Council, the contributions to be made under such agreement are
attributable to and fairly proportioned to the immediate and future needs of
the residents of such proposed development, the City Council may waive
application of the strict requirements of this Chapter to such development and
require instead performance of such agreement as a condition of approval of a
final plat of subdivision or of a final plat of planned unit development for
such proposed development.
   (C)   Binding Effect Of Contribution Agreement: An agreement between the
developer and one or more of the school and park districts affected by a
proposed development shall be binding upon the parties to such agreement, the
City when approved by the City and upon the successors, heirs, grantees and
heirs of such parties, but shall not be binding upon any school or park
district affected by the development which is not a party to such agreement.
Land shall be dedicated or cash in lieu of land shall be contributed as
required under this Chapter for any such nonparty school or park district.
   (D)   Negotiations Not To Delay Plat Approval: Unless a developer agrees in
writing to an extension of time for approval of a final plat of subdivision or
planned unit development, the approval of such final plat shall not be delayed
to allow or compel negotiations or execution of a land or cash contribution
agreement between a developer and one or more of the school and park districts
affected by a proposed development. (Ord. 0-56-87, 12-7-1987)
5B-2-13: CITY POLICY REGARDING CONTRIBUTIONS UPON ANNEXATION:
   (A)   General Policy: It is the policy of the City that all annexation
agreements entered into by the City shall provide for land to be dedicated or
cash in lieu of land to be contributed to the City, or other public bodies
designated by the City, pursuant to the authority contained in section 11-15.1-
2 of the Illinois Municipal Code, as now existing or hereinafter amended, to
serve the immediate and future need of the residents, businesses or
institutions to be situated within the annexed property and to defray the costs
of local governmental services and capital facilities necessitated, in whole or
in part, by such new development. It is the policy of the City that the costs
of such local governmental services and capital facilities which are fairly
attributable to the burden created by new developments annexed to the City
should be apportioned to and paid by the developer of such property and/or the
successor owners of such land and not by the existing taxpayers. However, such
contributions shall not affect land dedications or cash contributions in lieu
of land otherwise required by this Chapter upon the approval of a final plat of
subdivision or a final plat of planned unit development unless otherwise
provided in an annexation agreement entered into pursuant to section 11-15.1-
1 et seq., of the Illinois Municipal Code.
   (B)   School And Park Contributions: It is the City's policy that all
annexation agreements shall provide for reasonable contributions to school
districts and park districts affected by a proposed annexation accounting for
the anticipated impact on each affected district by the development of property
to be annexed. The owners of property to be annexed will be required to enter
into good faith negotiations with each affected district with the intent of
reaching an agreement relative to school and park donations to be incorporated
into an annexation agreement with the City. Such agreement may be in addition
to, wholly in lieu of, or partially in lieu of the land dedication for school
and park sites or cash contribution in lieu of land otherwise required under
this Chapter as a condition to approval of a final plat of subdivision or a
final plat of planned unit development. It is the intention of the City to
accept any such good faith agreement reached between the owner and the affected
districts.
   (C)   Library Contributions: It is the City's policy that all annexation
agreements shall provide for reasonable contributions for public library
purposes by the owner or developer of property to be annexed to the City and
developed with residential housing units. Unless otherwise agreed, it is the
City's policy that each annexation agreement entered into for property to be
developed with residential housing units shall require a cash contribution to
the affected library in accordance with the following schedule:
Type Of Residential Dwelling Unit Cash Contribution
                                  Per Dwelling Unit
Type Of Residential Dwelling Unit                          Cash Contribution
                                                           Per Dwelling Unit
Single-Family Dwelling:                                     
3 bedroom or less                                          $120.61
4 bedroom                                                  141.12
5 bedroom                                                  169.23
Apartments:                                                 
Efficiency                                                 35.00
1 bedroom                                                  54.57
2 bedroom                                                  89.57
3 bedroom                                                  114.91
4 bedroom                                                  134.75
Attached Single-Family (Townhouse, Row House, Quadriplex):  
1 bedroom                                                  53.20
2 bedroom                                                  92.65
3 bedroom                                                  114.21
4 bedroom                                                  160.37
 
   (D)   Municipal Contributions: It is the policy of the City that all
annexation agreements shall provide for reasonable contributions to the City
for the anticipated impact of a proposed development on the City for City
services and infrastructure. Such contributions may include, but are not
limited to, the cost of providing storm sewer and water utility service,
streets, street lighting, traffic signals, police protection, and general
Municipal services reasonably required to serve the proposed development or the
incremental cost of any such service or facilities as may be fairly attributed
to the needs of a proposed development. Such contributions, if required, shall
be in such form as is agreed by and between the City and the owner or developer
of the property to be annexed. Further, such contributions shall be
incorporated into any annexation agreement governing such property and shall
not affect the developer's obligations to develop the property in accordance
with the City's subdivision regulations unless the annexation agreement
specifically so provides.
   (E)   Timing Of Contributions: It is the policy of the City that each
annexation agreement entered into by the City shall provide a schedule for
impact contributions required under the annexation agreement. Further, the
approval of plats and the issuance of building or occupancy permits may be
conditioned upon compliance with such annexation agreement requirements since
annexation to the City and development of the property within the City would
have been prohibited absent an agreement to make contributions to affected
governmental bodies to pay the cost of providing adequate governmental services
to the property and the ultimate owners and occupants of such property. (Ord.
0-56-87, 12-7-1987)
TITLE 6A
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
Public Works Department   1
CHAPTER 1
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6A-1-1: Public Works Department Established
6A-1-2: Street Department
6A-1-3: Water Department
6A-1-4: Supervisor Of Public Works
6A-1-5: Enforcement
6A-1-1: PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
The Public Works Department is herewith established by the authority of the
Mayor and City Council. The Public Works Department shall consist of two (2)
primary "branches" or "subdepartments" hereafter known as the Darien Street
Department and the Darien Water Department respectively. (1978 Code)
6A-1-2: STREET DEPARTMENT:
The Street Department's function and responsibility shall be to construct,
maintain, repair and improve the streets, alleys, sidewalks, storm sewers,
storm drainage channels and basins as well as any public lands, buildings or
other property which from time to time the Council may direct.
The Street Department shall operate as a separate Department under the
jurisdiction of the Mayor and Council who shall establish an operating budget
within the total annual Municipal operating budget for the purpose of financing
the activities of the Street Department. (1978 Code)
6A-1-3: WATER DEPARTMENT:
The Water Department's function and responsibility shall be to construct,
maintain, repair and improve the water plant, source, distribution system,
service and quality of the Darien public water supply for the health, safety
and welfare of the citizens and users.
The Water Department shall operate as a separate Department under the
jurisdiction of the Mayor and City Council and shall be a self-sustaining unit
of the government operating as a nonprofit organization within its own
revenues. (1978 Code)
6A-1-4: SUPERVISOR OF PUBLIC WORKS:
The office of Supervisor of Public Works is hereby established by the Mayor and
City Council and the Supervisor of the Department shall be employed by the
Mayor and City Council and charged with the authority and responsibility to
supervise all actions of the Street Department and Water Department as listed
in, but not necessarily limited to Sections 6A-1-2 and 6A-1-3 of this Chapter.
The Supervisor is further charged with the responsibility of seeing that the
objects and purposes of the Department are carried out and performed on an
economical and businesslike basis and for this purpose it shall be the duty of
the Supervisor and all of the officers, employees and servants of the
Department to enforce all the provisions of this Chapter and to observe and
obey and carry out the orders and directions of the Mayor and City Council.
The Supervisor shall keep or cause to be kept, full and complete books of
accounts showing in detail, all monies received and expenditures contracted
including dates and sources and all matters pertaining to his office in a clear
and methodical manner. He shall also keep such books as the Mayor and Council
may from time to time direct. All such books, accounts and papers pertaining to
his office shall at all times be open to the inspection of the Mayor and
Council or any member of the committee thereof. (1978 Code)
6A-1-5: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the Supervisor of Public Works and the Chief of Police
and all other persons in the employ of the City having police powers, to
enforce the provisions of all ordinances, rules and regulations regarding the
Street Department and Water Department and to arrest or cause to be arrested
all persons violating same. (1978 Code)
TITLE 6B
STREET DIVISION
Stormwater And Floodplain Management   1
Storm Drainage (Rep. by Ord. 0-08-92, 2-3-1992)   2
Street And Right-Of-Way Regulations   3
Acceptance Of Subdivision Improvements   4
Construction Of Utility Facilities In The Public Rights-Of-Way   5
Right-Of-Way Access Regulations For Developments Not Subject To City
Regulation   6
Small Wireless Facilities   7
CHAPTER 1
STORMWATER AND FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
6B-1-1: Title
6B-1-2: Purpose
6B-1-3: General Requirements
6B-1-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the STORMWATER AND FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 0-08-92, 2-3-1992, eff. 2-15-1992)
6B-1-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to comply with County requirements for
mitigating stormwater runoffs generated from new developments, as well as
monitor development in special management areas (floodplains and wetlands).
(Ord. 0-08-92, 2-3-1992, eff. 2-15-1992)
6B-1-3: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
The City hereby adopts by reference the following articles of the DuPage
Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance (on file with the City as
exhibit A), adopted by the DuPage County Board on September 24, 1991 and as
amended on May 4, 2019, with special provisions to read as follows, which are
more restrictive than the County requirements as determined by the City: (Ord.
0-20-19, 7-15-2019)
Article I - Authority And Purpose - No change.
Article II - Administration - No change.
Article III - General Provisions
Section 15-24 is hereby amended by adding paragraph 15-24.E thereto as follows:
   15-24.E A copy of the current official list of exempt developments, as
approved by the committee, shall be on file with the city clerk of the city of
Darien.
Article IV - Stormwater Management Certifications
Section 15-42 is hereby amended by adding paragraphs 15-42.F thereto to read as
follows:
   15-42.F Schedule of permit fees for the city of Darien is as follows:
   15-42.F.1 For the surveys and plans required in sections 15-47.A.8 and 15-
47.A.9:
   15-42.F.1.a $50.00 for initial submittal.
   15-42.F.1.b $25.00 for any resubmittal of any of the surveys.
   15-42.F.2 For the stormwater certification submittal required in section 15-
47:
   15-42.F.2.a Preliminary plan - $200.00/acre; Resubmittals - $100.00/acre.
   15-42.F.2.b Final engineering plans - $300.00/acre; Resubmittals - $200.00/
acre.
   15-42.F.2.c Acre is based upon entire parcel, not the area under
development.
(Ord. 0-30-13, 11-4-2013)
Section 15-47 is hereby amended by adding paragraphs A.9 - A.11 thereto to read
as follows:
   15-47.A.9 A Proposed Grading Plan shall be submitted for review.
   15-47.A.10 A Spotted Survey shall be submitted after foundation walls are
constructed showing top of foundation elevations and dimensions prior to
framing.
   15-47.A.11 A Record Grading Plan, "as-built grades", shall be submitted at
time of request for Certificate of Occupancy.
(Ord. 0-20-19, 7-15-2019)
Article V - Certification Submittals - No change.
Article VI - Performance Security And Easements
Section 15-54 is hereby amended by adding paragraph A.6 thereto to read as
follows:
   15-54.A.6 In the event a developer is required to post a security to insure
the faithful performance of other public improvements (e.g., sanitary sewer,
water main, streets, sidewalk, street lights) outside those included in this
ordinance, he/she may combine the respective amounts into one security in an
amount acceptable to the administrator.
Article VII - Soil Erosion And Sedimentation Control Requirements - No change.
Article VIII - Post Construction Best Management Practices - No change.
Article IX - Site Runoff Conveyance, Storage And Field Tiles - No change.
(Ord. 0-30-13, 11-4-2013)
Article X - Flood Plain Management
15-80.H is hereby amended as follows:
   The Flood Protection Elevation (FPE) is the Base Flood Elevation (BFE) plus
two feet of freeboard.
(Ord. 0-20-19, 7-15-2019)
Section 15-81 is hereby amended by adding paragraph 15-81.B.8 thereto to read
as follows:
   15-81.B.8 In areas outside the boundary of the regulatory floodplain all
usable space in new buildings, or added to existing buildings shall either be
elevated, flood proofed, or otherwise protected such that the lowest entry be
at least two feet above the adjacent base flood elevation to prevent the entry
of surface stormwater. Floodproofing devices shall be operational without human
intervention. If electricity is required for protection against flood damage,
there shall be a backup power source which will activate without human
intervention. Floodproofing measures shall be certified by a professional
engineer.
Section 15-81.C.1 is hereby amended to read as follows:
   Temporary or permanent storage of the following are prohibited unless
elevated or floodproofed to two feet above the base flood elevation:
Section 15-81.C.3 is hereby amended to read as follows:
   Sanitary sewer systems and water distribution systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration or inflow of flood waters and discharge of
sewage. Sanitary manholes constructed within flood plain areas must have rim
elevations thirty inches (30") above the base flood elevation or must be
provided with watertight, lock-type covers.
Article XI - Wetlands - No change.
Article XII - Buffers - No change.
Article XIII - Fee-In-Lieu Programs
Section 15-98.B is amended to read as follows:
The city of Darien shall collect fee-in-lieu payments for post construction
best management practices, when approved by the administrator, and shall
operate a fee-in-lieu program in accordance with the fee structure as outlined
in this ordinance. Fees collected shall be used by the city to construct
projects that will enhance water quality and infiltration PCBMP treatments. The
city may, at its discretion, make available use of these funds to other
entities such as the Darien park district, school districts, and other entities
for appropriate use within the city of Darien.
Article XIV - Prohibited Acts/Enforcement/Penalties - No change.
Article XV - Appeals - No change.
Article XVI - Variances - No change.
Article XVII - Miscellaneous Provisions - No change.
Appendix A - Acronyms, Initialisms, And Definitions - The following words as
used in this chapter shall be defined as follows:
   Administrator - The director of public municipal services of the city of
Darien.
   Oversight Committee - The mayor and city council of the city of Darien.
   Flood Protection Elevation (FPE) - The base flood elevation plus two feet of
freeboard. If an approved FEQ watershed plan model produces a higher elevation
than the regulatory BFE, the FPE shall be the FEQ flood of record elevation
plus two foot of freeboard.
(Ord. 0-30-13, 11-4-2013)
CHAPTER 2
STORM DRAINAGE
(Rep. by Ord. 0-08-92, 2-3-1992)
CHAPTER 3
STREET AND RIGHT OF WAY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6B-3-1: Title
6B-3-2: Purpose, Scope, Jurisdiction
6B-3-3: General Requirements
6B-3-4: Streets, Curbs And Gutters
6B-3-5: Driveway Culverts And Road Drainage
6B-3-6: Driveway Aprons
6B-3-7: Street Lighting System
6B-3-8: Parkways And Sidewalks
6B-3-8B: Sidewalk Specifications
6B-3-9: Excavations
6B-3-10: Permits, Bonds And Fees
6B-3-11: Violation, Penalty
6B-3-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as the STREET AND RIGHT OF WAY ORDINANCE. (1978
Code)
6B-3-2: PURPOSE, SCOPE, JURISDICTION:
The purpose of this Chapter is to set forth rules, regulations and standards to
regulate and control construction and maintenance in public rights of way of
all sewer, water distribution, open storm drainage and street and driveway
approach construction in the City in order to promote the public health,
safety, convenience and general welfare within the City.
These regulations and requirements are designed to provide for the orderly and
harmonious development of the City, for the coordination of construction and to
secure a uniform system of utilities, improvements and services, constructed to
standards intended to provide safe, dependable services to the public. (1978
Code)
6B-3-3: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
Within the City, all construction, alteration, excavation, maintenance and
repair within public street or alley rights of way, other public ways or in
easements granted to the City, and all sewer collection and water distribution,
construction shall meet the requirements of and be carried out in compliance
with this Chapter and shall be under the direction of the Supervisor of Public
Works and subject to the approval and inspection by the City Engineer if deemed
necessary by said Supervisor of Public Works whether constructed or maintained
by the City or by private firms, individuals or utilities or by other public
agencies.
It shall be unlawful to proceed with any construction, alteration, excavation,
maintenance or repair within public street or alley rights of way, other public
ways or in easements granted to the City or with any sewer or water
distribution construction without first having secured a permit therefor from
the City or other agencies having jurisdiction and maintenance responsibility
for the street or road in question. (1978 Code)
6B-3-4: STREETS, CURBS AND GUTTERS:
   (A)   Definitions:
   DRIVEWAY APRON: That portion of a driveway or private road extending through
the parkway of a public street.
   IMPROVED STREET: Such streets will include those conforming to City
standards for permanent roadways, surfaced with Portland cement concrete or
bituminous concrete and provided with curb and gutter and adequate storm
drainage facilities.
   PARKWAY: That portion of the street right of way lying between the edge of
pavement or back of curb and the right-of-way line.
   PRIVATE STREET: A private street is a street which has not been dedicated
and accepted that serves more than one parcel of property.
   RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land dedicated to the public for access purposes
including, but not limited to, streets, alleys, and pedestrianways, and which
may include surface access by vehicles or pedestrian overhead access, when
permitted, for utilities, and underground access for sewers and utilities.
   STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS: The most current edition of the Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction adopted by the Illinois
Department of Transportation.
   STREET: A street as used in this Chapter, unless otherwise qualified is a
dedicated and accepted public thoroughfare primarily intended for automotive
traffic flow.
   SUBSTANDARD STREET: An improved street which does not conform to all City
standards for permanent roadways.
   UNIMPROVED STREET: Unimproved streets shall include all public streets not
classified as improved streets.
   (B)   Construction Regulations: The construction of streets shall be in
accordance with existing "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction, State of Illinois Department of Transportation". Detail standards
for street cross section and combination concrete curb and gutter and all
appurtenances shall conform to the "Highway Standards" adopted by the State of
Illinois, Department of Transportation, Division of Highway Bureau of Design
except where otherwise specified on the plans and specifications approved by
the City Engineer.
      1.   Improved streets shall fall in one of the following categories:
 
Category         ROW Width Pavement Width
Major arterial   200 feet  80 feet
Minor arterial   100 feet  60 feet
Collector street 80 feet   37 feet
Minor street     66 feet   30 feet
 
      2.   Sub-base earth excavation construction in accordance with approved
engineering plans to provide a stable sub-base no less than a CBR value of 3.0.
CBR tests shall be performed if, in the opinion of the City Engineer, they are
necessary to evaluate sub- base material.
   (C)   Paving Standards: The following general types of construction shall be
permitted, according to the individual standards for street Classes A, B and C.
      Type 1 - Portland cement concrete (PCC) with integral curb and gutter.
      Type 2 - Bituminous aggregate material base course with bituminous
concrete binder and surface, Class I, and PCC combination curb and gutter.
      Type 3 - Stabilized aggregate base with bituminous concrete binder and
surface, Class I, and PCC combination curb and gutter (aggregate may be
stabilized by the addition of Portland cement, asphaltic material or hydrated
lime and fly ash).
      Type 4 - Gravel crushed stone base course, Type A, with bituminous
concrete binder and surface. Class I and PCC combination curb and gutter.
      1.   Class A Construction Standards For Major Streets:
         Type 1 - Portland cement concrete with integral curb and gutter shall
have a minimum thickness of eight inches (8") reinforced with pavement fabric.
The subgrade shall be compacted.
         Type 2 - Bituminous aggregate material base course shall have a
minimum compacted thickness of nine inches (9") and shall have two inches (2")
of bituminous concrete binder and one and one-half inches (11/2") of bituminous
concrete surface course and Class I with a Portland cement concrete combination
curb and gutter. The subgrade shall be compacted nongranular select borrow,
with a depth as required.
         Type 3 - Stabilized aggregate base shall have a minimum compacted
thickness of ten inches (10") and shall have two inches (2") of bituminous
concrete binder and one and one-half inches (11/2") of bituminous concrete
surface course of Class I with a Portland cement concrete combination curb and
gutter. The subgrade shall be compacted nongranular select borrow, with a depth
as required.
         Type 4 - (Shall not be allowed)
      2.   Class B Construction Standards For Collector Streets:
         Type 1 - Portland cement concrete with integral curb and gutter shall
have a minimum thickness of seven inches (7"). The subgrade shall be compacted.
         Type 2 - Bituminous aggregate material base course shall have a
minimum compacted thickness of seven inches (7") and shall have one and one-
half inches (11/2") of bituminous concrete binder and one and one- half inches
(11/2") of bituminous concrete surface course of Class I with a Portland cement
concrete combination curb and gutter. The subgrade shall be compacted.
         Type 3 - Stabilized aggregate base shall have a minimum compacted
thickness of eight inches (8") and shall have one and one-half inches (11/2")
of bituminous concrete binder and one and one-half inches (11/2") of bituminous
concrete surface course of Class I with Portland cement concrete combination
curb and gutter with compacted subgrade.
         Type 4 - Gravel or crushed stone base course. Base course Type A or B
shall have a minimum compacted thickness of twelve inches (12") and shall have
one and one-half inches (11/2") of bituminous concrete binder and one and one-
half inches (11/2") of bituminous concrete surface course of Class I with a
Portland cement concrete combination curb and gutter. The subgrade shall be
compacted.
      3.   Class C Construction Standards For Minor Streets:
         Type 1 - Portland cement concrete with integral curb and gutter shall
have a minimum thickness of six inches (6"). The subgrade shall be compacted.
         Type 2 - Bituminous aggregate material base course shall have a
minimum compacted thickness of five inches (5") and shall have one and one-half
inches (11/2") of bituminous concrete binder and one and one-half inches (11/
2") of bituminous concrete surface course of Class I with a Portland cement
concrete combination curb and gutter. The subgrade shall be compacted.
         Type 3 - Stabilized aggregate base shall have a minimum compacted
thickness of six inches (6") and shall have one and one-half inches (11/2") of
bituminous concrete binder and one and one-half inches (11/2") of bituminous
concrete surface course of Class I with a Portland cement concrete combination
curb and gutter. The subgrade shall be compacted.
         Type 4 - Gravel or crushed stone base course. Base course Type A or B
shall have a minimum compacted thickness of nine inches (9") and shall have one
and one-half inches (11/2") of bituminous concrete binder and one and one-half
inches (11/2") of bituminous concrete surface course of Class I with a Portland
cement concrete combination curb and gutter. The subgrade shall be compacted.
   (D)   Curbs And Gutters: Portland cement concrete curbs and gutters shall be
included with all improved streets and conform with the "Standards
Specifications" for combination B-6-12 curb and gutters. M-6-12 combination
curb and gutters may be used as an alternate if approved by the City Engineer.
   (E)   Maintenance: It is the duty and responsibility of the Public Works
Street Department to maintain and repair all public streets not only for
convenience of the public but also to permit proper police and fire protection
so far as funds, facilities, manpower and equipment will permit. (1978 Code)
6B-3-5: DRIVEWAY CULVERTS AND ROAD DRAINAGE:
   (A)   Driveway Culverts: The construction, maintenance and repair of all
driveway culverts, entranceways, drainage ditches and drainage swales within
the City on the public right of way shall be under the direction of the Public
Works Supervisor and subject to the approval of the City Engineer, if
requested, whether constructed or maintained by the City, by private firms,
individuals or utilities or by other public agencies.
      1.   It shall be unlawful to do any of the above work without first
having obtained a permit therefor from the City and without fully complying
with the provisions of this Chapter.
      2.   The fees for the above permits shall be in accordance with Section
6B-3-10 of this Chapter. Such fees shall cover the cost of inspections of the
construction and any related cost incurred by the City.
      3.   The cost of the culvert and the installation in respect to
driveways, and driveway culverts, shall be borne by the owner of the property
for which a new culvert is requested by the owner.
      4.   If required construction is requested by the City and is not
completed by the owner within sixty (60) days after notification, the Public
Works Department shall install required culverts and bill the owner for fifty
percent (50%) of the total cost. If replacement is required due to negligence
of owner, the owner shall be charged for the total cost.
      5.   If said costs are not paid within sixty (60) days, a lien shall be
placed on said property.
   (B)   Regulation Of Drainage And Work Along Street Rights Of Way:
      1.   This subsection shall govern work relating to drainage from and
along all roads and rights of way as well as all work on said rights of way in
the City.
      2.   Any person, other than the City, desiring to do any work other than
routine maintenance on the public right of way within the City; or any person
other than the City who shall block, restrict or cause to be diverted the
drainage of any street or right of way or any ditch in or leading to or from
any right of way within the City, shall first obtain a permit to do so from the
City Clerk, pursuant to Chapter 2 of this Title, being the rules and
regulations established by the City Council. (1978 Code)
6B-3-6: DRIVEWAY APRONS:
Driveway aprons shall be constructed and maintained by private property owners
at their expense. Construction standards and specifications for the
construction of driveway aprons shall be those as kept on file in the office of
the Public Works Department. In establishing such standards the Public Works
Department shall consider the type of driveway being constructed and the street
to which the driveway is being joined. No person shall construct or alter a
driveway apron without first obtaining a permit from the City as provided in
Section
6B-3-10 of this Chapter. (1978 Code)
6B-3-7: STREET LIGHTING SYSTEM:
All public ways shall be adequately lighted by luminaries constructed in
accordance with the lighting standards set forth herein. The system shall be
based on the following criteria:
   (A)   Horizontal Illumination:
 
Street Classification    Average Foot-Candles Value
Major and minor arterial 1.2
Collector                0.6
Minor                    0.4
 
   (B)   Height And Fixture: Lighting standards shall be of a stress- spun
concrete precast butt type with the following requirements for height and
fixture:
 
Street         Height
Classification In     Fixture
               Feet
Major and             25,000–45,000 lumens, HP sodium, bracket-arm mounted, wattage 250-400
minor          30-33  maximum
arterials
Collector      23     13,000–25,000 lumens, HP sodium, bracket-arm mounted, wattage 150-250
                      maximum
Minor          23     8,000–13,000 lumens, HP sodium, bracket-arm mounted, wattage 100-150
                      maximum
 
   (C)   Circuits: The street lighting circuits shall be of the 120-240 volt
single-phase; triplexed; cross-linked polyethylene, 600 volt type insulation;
direct burial cable type, with the pedestal to lamp runs not smaller than #6
AWG (AL). The triplexed conductor shall run from the pedestal to the lamp
standard and shall run in a random lay method at a minimal depth of thirty two
inches (32") below the final established grade line and shall follow the back
lot lines, established side lot line easement or one foot (1') from the back of
curb outside of the pavement area on either side of the street or where such
installations would not be feasible at such other location as is approved in
writing by the City Engineer, but in all cases shall remain within the
dedicated right of way when laid parallel with the street. (Ord. 0-27-80, 8-4-
1980)
6B-3-8: PARKWAYS AND SIDEWALKS:
Shrubs, bushes, hedges and other plantings within the parkway except trees
shall not be permitted to attain a height in excess of twenty four inches
(24"). Trees within the parkway shall be kept trimmed at all times in such a
manner as not to obstruct the vision of motorists and/or pedestrians.
No person shall construct any obstructions or sidewalks within a parkway
without first obtaining a permit from the City as provided in Section
6B-3-10 of this Chapter. (1978 Code)
6B-3-8B: SIDEWALK SPECIFICATIONS:
Public sidewalks shall be located one foot (1') from the property line within
the public right, of way unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer.
Public sidewalks shall be constructed of a six (6) bag mix Portland cement
concrete placed on a leveling course of granular bedding material over a
compacted sub-base free from organic material. The Portland cement concrete
shall be a minimum of five inches (5") thick, except where it crosses a
driveway or street where the minimum thickness shall match the driveway or
street construction.
Sidewalks shall be four feet (4') wide in all residential districts and a
minimum of five feet (5') wide in all other districts. Fiber expansion joints
three-fourths inch (3/4") thick shall be placed where the sidewalk abuts an
existing sidewalk, driveway pavement, curb or other structure and at intervals
of not more than fifty feet (50'). Construction joints shall be saw cut or
scored to a depth of one-half inch (1/2") at intervals of five feet (5') and
the surface shall be a "broomed" finish. (1978 Code)
6B-3-9: EXCAVATIONS:
   (A)   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to make any
excavation or opening in any public right of way without first obtaining a
permit from the City as provided in Section
6B-3-10 of this Chapter.
   (B)   Disposition Of Cash Bond: The cash bond shall be held by the City
Comptroller for a period of one year after the notice of restoration, and if
after one year and after inspection by the City Engineer the restoration of the
excavation or opening is in a condition acceptable to the City, the cash bond
shall be returned to the depositor. If the City Engineer deems that further
work is necessary to restore the public right of way and upon refusal or
failure of the depositor to make the required corrections, the City may do the
necessary work with the costs thereof being deducted from the cash bond. The
balance of the cash bond, if any, shall be returned to the depositor or, if the
costs of proper restoration exceed the cash bond, then the depositor shall pay
to the City the amount of the excess 1 .
   (C)   Liability Of Permittee: All persons permitted hereunder to make any
excavation or opening in any public right of way within the City and who are
required to repair said excavation or opening thereafter, shall maintain all
such excavations or openings in a safe condition from the time the permittee
makes the openings until the permittee shall repair the public right of way and
the permittee shall be liable and responsible for any and all accidents or
damages of any nature occasioned by any such excavation or opening until same
is repaired and approval of the City Engineer is obtained.
All such repairs shall be of such character that the excavation repair will be
and remain in good repair and condition for a period of one year from and after
the completion thereof. In case any disintegration appears or any defects or
depressions occur within such period, except such as are without the fault of
the permittee or his agents, such permittee shall be liable for and responsible
to repair such defects and to put the repair in a smooth, satisfactory and good
condition.
   (D)   Blocking Streets: No excavation shall block more than one- half (1/2)
of any street driving surface, except as approved by the Supervisor.
   (E)   Barricades And Lights: Any person making or maintaining any excavation
in any public right of way shall maintain the same adequately guarded by
barricades and lights to protect persons and property.
   (F)   Supervision: The excavating, tunneling or other work being done to any
public right of way shall be under and subject to the supervision of the City
Engineer. Notice shall be given to the Supervisor at least twenty four (24)
hours before the work of backfilling any excavation commences.
   (G)   Repair Of Excavation Area Required: Any person making or causing to be
made any excavation or opening for any purpose in any public right of way
within the City shall cause the same to be repaired in the following manner:
      1.   The width of the trench shall be kept as narrow as the construction
needs require. Proper bracing shall be maintained to prevent any collapse of
adjoining ground; no tunnel shall exceed thirty six inches (36") in diameter
except with proper bracing or shoring as approved by the City Engineer.
      2.   All excavated material taken from the street or drive opening shall
be removed from the location and the opening backfilled with sand or fine
aggregate, as approved by the City Engineer. The backfill material shall be
placed in lifts not to exceed sixteen inches (16"). Each lift shall be
thoroughly compacted before the next lift is placed.
      3.   Topsoil shall be replaced at a minimum depth of six inches (6")
properly graded, compacted, seeded or sodded and approved by the City Engineer.
      4.   Gravel and surfaces shall be repaired with thoroughly compacted
crushed stone base equal to the thickness of the existing course, but not less
than nine inches (9").
      5.   Bituminous surfaces (seal coat) shall be repaired with a two inch
(2") compacted thickness "cold patch" surfacing material over a compacted,
crushed stone base equal to the existing base, but shall not be less than six
inches (6").
      6.   Concrete and bituminous concrete surfaces shall be repaired with
concrete and base equal to the existing slab and base thickness, but in no case
shall it be less than six inches (6") thick. The surfacing shall be removed one
foot (1') outside the perimeter of the trench opening. In excavating materials
from the area to be patched, the perimeter of the patch must be saw cut to
produce a square and straight vertical shoulder to place the patch against.
   (H)   Prior to excavation it shall be the applicant's responsibility to
contact all operators of gas, electric, telephone, water, sewer or any other
public utility services in the area to receive from them the information as to
the existence and location of any underground facilities. (1978 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section
  6B-3-10 of this Chapter.
6B-3-10: PERMITS, BONDS AND FEES:
An approved construction permit shall be required and the appropriate fees paid
before any construction within a public right of way under the jurisdiction of
the City may proceed.
   (A)   Parkway Excavations: Excavation within the parkway not requiring the
cutting or excavation of the street surface or sidewalk: Two hundred dollars
($200.00) cash bond for each excavation, location or address involved, with one
hundred seventy five dollars ($175.00) of each bond refundable after
satisfactory completion and restoration of the project. The remaining twenty
five dollars ($25.00) will be retained as the inspection fee.
   (B)   Street And Sidewalk Excavations: Excavations requiring the cutting or
excavation of the street or sidewalk surface: Fifteen dollars ($15.00) per
square foot area of the opening cash bond. Upon satisfactory completion and
restoration of the project fifty dollars ($50.00) will be retained as the
inspection fee.
   (C)   Subdivision Improvements: Before any construction of public
improvements, including earth movement, is begun, an approved construction
permit will be required and the appropriate fees paid. The nonrefundable fee
for this permit will be equal to two percent (2%) of the approved engineer's
estimate of the cost of the improvements listed on the permit. (Ord. 0-28-90,
5-21-1990)
6B-3-11: VIOLATION, PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be fined, upon
conviction, not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation, plus the cost of the action, and
a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day that such violation
continues. (1978 Code)
CHAPTER 4
ACCEPTANCE OF SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
6B-4-1: Acceptance Of Right Of Way Of Public Streets And Properties
6B-4-2: Required Improvements
6B-4-3: Review By Plan Commission
6B-4-4: Final Approval
6B-4-5: Utility Services
6B-4-6: "As-Built" Drawings
6B-4-7: Final Acceptance Of Improvements
6B-4-1: ACCEPTANCE OF RIGHT OF WAY OF PUBLIC STREETS AND PROPERTIES:
In any plat of subdivision containing dedication of right of way for streets
and/or utilities and properties which are therein reserved for dedication to
public use, the approval of the final plat by the City Council shall constitute
the acceptance of the dedication of right of way, but not the improvements in
or on the property or the right of way. (Ord. 0-09-74-A, 12-2-1974)
6B-4-2: REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
No final plat containing public property, right of way, and/or street
improvements shall be approved by the City Council without first receiving a
report signed by the City Engineer, reviewed by the Public Works Department,
certifying that the plans and specifications for improvements described therein
have been prepared by a registered professional engineer and conform with the
requirements of this Chapter, and meet the minimum requirements of all
applicable ordinances of the City and that they comply with the following:
   (A)   Streets, Pedestrianways And Public Utilities: A registered
professional engineer acting for the subdivider shall meet with the Public
Works Supervisor and the City Engineer as required by the City on the location
of the subdivision and shall present sufficient data and information relative
to the proposed public property, right of way and/or street improvements to
ensure satisfactory grading and drainage. This information shall be in proper
form to incorporate in the plans of the subdivider for the construction of the
streets, utilities and other improvements in the subdivision.
   (B)   Street Profile Plans: Street profile plans for all streets in
subdivisions shall be prepared by a registered professional engineer in
accordance with these subdivision regulations. The agent for the subdivider or
his contractor shall be responsible for establishing the proper lines and
grades for all earthwork and drainage.
   (C)   Completion Guarantee: The subdivider shall post a surety bond,
certified check or letter of credit acceptable to the City Attorney, or cash
for completion of such improvements for the full amount of the cost as
established by a registered professional engineer approved by the governing
authority to ensure the faithful performance of this Chapter.
   (D)   Grading: The grading shall be done in a workmanlike manner to grades
approved by the City Engineer.
   (E)   Drainage: The drainage shall conform to the system designed and
established by the professional engineer for the subdivider or his contractor
and approved by the City Engineer. It shall be completed before the placement
of any surfacing material. Where a drainage course traverses private property
through the subdivision, a dedication easement for the same shall be recorded
on the plat. In subdivisions containing lots less than twenty thousand (20,000)
square feet in area, and business and industrial districts, underground storm
systems shall be constructed throughout the subdivision to carry off storm
water from all inlets and catch basins and be connected to an approved outfall.
(Ord. 0-09-74-A, 12-2-1974)
6B-4-3: REVIEW BY PLAN COMMISSION:
The plat certified as set forth in Section
6B-4-2 of this Chapter, shall be reviewed by the Plan Commission and a report
thereon shall be prepared and submitted to the City Council. (Ord. 0-09-74-A,
12-2-1974)
6B-4-4: FINAL APPROVAL:
Before any acceptance of streets, acceptable evidence of utilities and any
other improvements, waivers of lien for all work shall be presented to the
City. The City Engineer and Public Works Supervisor shall review all reviews of
the improvements and give a total review and physical inspection and a report.
(Ord. 0-09-74-A, 12-2-1974)
6B-4-5: UTILITY SERVICES:
Approval shall be obtained from the City for the installation of communication,
electric power, gas and other utility services before any installation is
started. (Ord. 0-09-74-A, 12-2-1974)
6B-4-6: "AS-BUILT" DRAWINGS:
Upon completion of the various public improvements, the owner's engineer shall
prepare for the City "as-built" drawings of all public improvements corrected
to show actual dimensions and location of all construction, and supply the City
Engineer with the corrected original tracings which shall become the property
of the City, and one copy shall be supplied to the Public Works Supervisor.
Final acceptance and release of bond or equivalent is contingent on this
information. (Ord. 0-21-71, 11-15-1971)
6B-4-7: FINAL ACCEPTANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS:
Upon completion of the required land improvements and submission of "as-built"
drawings, the owner shall file with the City Clerk a statement by a registered
professional engineer that all construction has been completed in accordance
with the engineering plans and specifications approved by the City and meets
the requirements set forth by the City. Upon review of the statement and
periodic inspection of the improvements providing they are satisfactory, the
City Engineer shall file with the City Council a statement indicating the
satisfactory completion and acceptance of said improvements on behalf of the
City. Upon issuance of this statement and the acceptance of the City Council,
the improvements shall be considered complete and the bonds released
accordingly. Standard documents to be filed with the City Clerk shall include
two (2) signed copies of an agreement between the owner and the registered
professional engineer representing the owner indicating the general supervision
of the construction of all facilities to be done by said engineer and a
statement that the contractor is responsible for one year beyond final
acceptance of such improvements by the City Council for repairs and corrections
which may be required because of or on account of faulty construction. (Ord. 0-
21-71, 11-15-1971)
CHAPTER 5
CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY
SECTION:
6B-5-1: Purpose And Scope
6B-5-2: Definitions
6B-5-3: Annual Registration Required
6B-5-4: Permit Required; Applications And Fees
6B-5-5: Action On Permit Applications
6B-5-6: Effect Of Permit
6B-5-7: Revised Permit Drawings
6B-5-8: Insurance
6B-5-9: Indemnification
6B-5-10: Security
6B-5-11: Permit Suspension And Revocation
6B-5-12: Change Of Ownership Or Owner's Identity Or Legal Status
6B-5-13: General Construction Standards
6B-5-14: Traffic Control
6B-5-15: Location Of Facilities
6B-5-16: Construction Methods And Materials
6B-5-17: Vegetation Control
6B-5-18: Removal, Relocation, Or Modifications Of Utility Facilities
6B-5-19: Cleanup And Restoration
6B-5-20: Maintenance And Emergency Maintenance
6B-5-21: Variances
6B-5-22: Penalties
6B-5-23: Enforcement
6B-5-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights of way within the city's
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the city
rights of way and the city as a whole.
   (B)   Intent: In enacting this chapter, the city of Darien intends to
exercise its authority over the rights of way in the city of Darien and, in
particular, the use of the public ways and property by utilities, by
establishing uniform standards to address issues presented by utility
facilities, including, without limitation:
      1.   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
      2.   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      3.   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the city
of Darien's utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights of way
or public property;
      4.   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees and
damage to storm water infrastructure, from the installation of utility
facilities;
      5.   Protect against increased storm water runoff due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      6.   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
      7.   Preserve open space, particularly the tree lined parkways that
characterize the city of Darien's residential neighborhoods;
      8.   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights of way; and
      9.   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
   (C)   Facilities Subject To This Chapter: This chapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the public
rights of way within the jurisdiction of the city. A facility lawfully
established prior to the effective date of this chapter may continue to be
maintained, repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and
located, except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise,
license or similar agreement. This chapter shall not apply to any facilities
constructed by others to be owned by the city.
   (D)   Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements: The city, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the city
rights of way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the city enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the city may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with this
chapter.
   (E)   Effect Of Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements:
      1.   Telecommunications Providers: In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the city and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      2.   Utilities Other Than Telecommunications Providers: In the event that
a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise, license or
similar agreement with the city, such franchise, license or similar agreement
shall govern and control during the term of such agreement and any lawful
renewal or extension thereof.
   (F)   Conflicts With Other Ordinances: This chapter supersedes all
ordinances or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict
herewith to the extent of such conflict.
   (G)   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the
maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
   (H)   Sound Engineering Judgment: The city shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this chapter when the city so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the city
to regulate its rights of way for the protection of the public health, safety
and welfare. (Ord. 0-10-08, 3-17-2008)
6B-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter and unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the
words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in 92 Illinois administrative code section 530.30, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
AASHTO: American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
ANSI: American National Standards Institute.
ASTM: American Society for Testing and Materials.
APPLICANT: A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
BACKFILL: The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a trench
or pit.
BORE OR BORING: To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the insertion
of a pipe or electrical conductor.
CABLE OPERATOR: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(5).
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(6).
CABLE SYSTEM: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(7).
CARRIER PIPE: The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be transported.
CASING: A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
CITY: The city of Darien, Illinois.
CITY'S DESIGN MANUAL: The city of Darien's construction specifications and
requirements embodied in a booklet or manual.
CLEAR ZONE: The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a nonrecoverable slope, and a clear run out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO "Roadside
Design Guide".
COATING: Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
CODE: The municipal code of the city of Darien and ordinances enacted by the
city of Darien.
CONDUCTOR: Wire carrying electrical current.
CONDUIT: A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
CONSTRUCTION OR CONSTRUCT: The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
COVER: The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
CROSSING FACILITY: A facility that crosses one or more right of way lines of a
right of way.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: The director of the city of Darien department of
public works, or his designee.
DISRUPT THE RIGHT OF WAY: For the purposes of this chapter, any work that
obstructs the right of way or causes an adverse effect on the ability of
persons, other companies with facilities in the right of way, or vehicles to
use the right of way for its intended use or which may damage, destroy or
injure vegetation in the right of way. Such work shall include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, but shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a road.
EMERGENCY: Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety of
the public using or in the vicinity of the right of way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
ENCASEMENT: Provision of a protective casing.
ENGINEER: The city engineer or his designee.
EQUIPMENT: Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
EXCAVATION: The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying bare
by digging.
EXTRA HEAVY PIPE: Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
FACILITY: All structures, devices, objects, and materials including, but not
limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, communications
and video cables and wires, poles, conduits, grates, covers, pipes, cables,
vaults, boxes, cabinets and other equipment enclosures, power pedestals and
appurtenances thereto located on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights of way under this chapter, but excepting therefrom all
structures, devices, objects or materials owned by the city.
FREESTANDING FACILITY: A facility that is not a crossing facility or a parallel
facility, such as, but not limited to, vaults, boxes, cabinets, equipment
enclosures, antennas, transformers, pumps, or meter stations.
FRONTAGE ROAD: Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent to
the highway where access to the land is precluded by control of access on the
highway.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
city director of public works or the city engineer to pose an unreasonable and
imminent risk to the life, health or safety of persons or property or to the
ecological balance of the environment, including, but not limited to,
explosives, radioactive materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases,
poisons, etiology (biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance
determined to be hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law, statute or
regulation.
HIGHWAY CODE: The Illinois highway code, 605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101
et seq., as amended from time to time.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the Illinois commerce commission (the "ICC")
pursuant to the Illinois cable and video competition law, 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-401.
IDOT: Illinois department of transportation.
ILCC: Illinois commerce commission.
JACKING: Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means with
or without boring.
JETTING: Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to create
a cavity ahead of the pipe.
JOINT USE: The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two (2) or
more utilities.
MAJOR INTERSECTION: The intersection of two (2) or more major arterial roads.
OCCUPANCY: The presence of facilities on, over or under right of way.
PARALLEL FACILITY: A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to the
centerline of a right of way.
PARKWAY: Any portion of the right of way not improved by street or sidewalk.
PAVEMENT CUT: The removal of an area of pavement for access to facility or for
the construction of a facility.
PERMITTEE: That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to sections
6B-5-4 and 6B-5-5 of this chapter.
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES: Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal slurry.
PRACTICABLE: That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than that
which is simply convenient.
PRESSURE: The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
PROMPT: That which is done within a period of time specified by the city. If no
time period is specified, the period shall be thirty (30) days.
PUBLIC ENTITY: A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
RESTORATION: The repair of a right of way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
RIGHT OF WAY: Any street, alley, other land or waterway, dedicated or commonly
used for roadway or utility purposes, including utility easements in which the
city has the right and authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location
of facilities other than those of the city. "Right of way" shall not include
any real or personal city property that is not specifically described in the
previous two (2) sentences and shall not include city buildings, fixtures, and
other structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in
the right of way.
ROADWAY: That part of the right of way that includes the pavement and
shoulders.
SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
SECURITY FUND: That amount of security required pursuant to section
6B-5-10 of this chapter.
SHOULDER: A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT: A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, specialized mobile radio services,
cellular mobile telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio service,
paging service or any other form of commercial mobile or portable one-way or
two-way communications, and any other transmission of messages or information
by electronic or similar means, between or among points by wire, cable, fiber
optics, laser, microwave, radio, satellite, or similar facilities. For purposes
of this definition, "private line" means a dedicated nontraffic sensitive
service for a single customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications
channel, or a group of such channels, from one or more specified locations to
one or more other specified locations. "Telecommunications" shall not include
value added services in which computer processing applications are used to act
on the form, content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes other
than transmission. "Telecommunications" shall not include purchase of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by him or her to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the end to end communications.
"Telecommunications" shall not include the provision of cable services through
a cable system as defined in the cable communications act of 1984 (47 USC
section 521 and following) as now or hereafter amended or cable or other
programming services subject to an open video system fee payable to the city
through an open video system as defined in the rules of the federal
communications commission (47 CFR 76.1550 and following) as now or hereafter
amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the public right of way used or designed to be used to
transmit telecommunications in any form.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in making
sales of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
TRENCH: A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
UTILITY: The individual or entity owning or operating any "facility" as defined
in this chapter.
VENT: A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
VIDEO SERVICE: That term as defined in section 21-201(v) of the Illinois cable
and video competition law of 2007, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 21-201(v).
WATER LINES: Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
WET BORING: Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material. (Ord. 0-10-08, 3-
17-2008)
6B-5-3: ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Every utility that occupies right of way within the city shall register on
January 1 of each year with the director of public works, or designee,
providing the utility's name, address and regular business telephone and
telecopy numbers, the name of one or more contact persons who can act on behalf
of the utility in connection with emergencies involving the utility's
facilities in the right of way and a twenty four (24) hour telephone number for
each such person, and evidence of insurance as required in section
6B-5-8 of this chapter, in the form of a certificate of insurance. (Ord. 0-10-
08, 3-17-2008)
6B-5-4: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES:
   (A)   Permit Required: No person shall construct (as defined in this
chapter) any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within
any city right of way which: 1) changes the location of the facility, 2) adds a
new facility, 3) disrupts the "right of way" (as defined in this chapter), or
4) materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by the facility
on, over, above, along, under, across or within the right of way, without first
filing an application with the director of public works and obtaining a permit
from the city therefor, except as otherwise provided in this chapter. No permit
shall be required for installation and maintenance of service connections to
customers' premises where there will be no disruption of the right of way.
   (B)   Permit Application: All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the city and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the city may designate. Duplicate copies
shall be submitted to the city engineer. The applicant may designate those
portions of its application materials that it reasonably believes contain
proprietary or confidential information as "proprietary" or "confidential" by
clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   (C)   Minimum General Application Requirements: The application shall be
made by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at
a minimum, the following:
      1.   The utility's name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      2.   The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility, its
telephone and telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
      3.   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers of all
professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with respect to the
application;
      4.   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      5.   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the city:
         (a)   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the "Illinois Manual
On Uniform Traffic Control Devices", to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         (b)   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the city and shall promote
protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with ILCC
regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with this
section unless the city finds that additional information or assurances are
needed;
      6.   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
      7.   Evidence of insurance as required in section
6B-5-8 of this chapter;
      8.   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in section
6B-5-10 of this chapter;
      9.   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter (see section
6B-5-21 of this chapter); and
      10.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
city.
   (D)   Supplemental Application Requirements For Specific Types Of Utilities:
In addition to the requirements of subsection (C) of this section, the permit
application shall include the following items as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      1.   In the case of new electric power, communications,
telecommunications, cable service, video service or natural gas distribution
system installation, evidence that any "certificate of public convenience and
necessity" or other regulatory authorization that the applicant is required by
law to have, or that applicant has elected to obtain, has been issued by the
ILCC or other jurisdictional authority;
      2.   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
      3.   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois environmental protection agency, division of public water supplies,
have been satisfied and provide copies of IEPA permits;
      4.   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois environmental protection agency,
division of water pollution control, or other local or state entities with
jurisdiction, have been satisfied and provide copies of IEPA permits; or
      5.   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or types
of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the design
standard to be followed.
   (E)   Applicant's Duty To Update Information: Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the city within thirty (30) days after
the change necessitating the amendment.
   (F)   Application Fees: Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be accompanied by a fee in the amount of twenty dollars ($20.00) per one
hundred (100) linear feet of the facility within city right of way, or a
minimum of one hundred dollars ($100.00). No application fee is required to be
paid by any electricity utility that is paying the municipal electricity
infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the electricity infrastructure
maintenance fee act. (Ord. 0-10-08, 3-17-2008)
6B-5-5: ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   (A)   City Review Of Permit Applications: Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the director of
public works within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does not
conform to the requirements of all applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules,
and regulations, the director of public works shall reject such application in
writing, stating the reasons therefor. If the director of public works is
satisfied that the proposed work conforms to the requirements of this chapter
and all applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations, the
director of public works shall issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable.
In all instances, it shall be the duty of the applicant to demonstrate, to the
satisfaction of the director of public works, that the construction proposed
under the application shall be in full compliance with the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   Additional City Review Of Applications Of Telecommunications
Retailers:
      1.   Pursuant to section 4 of the telephone company act, 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 65/4, a telecommunications retailer shall notify the city
that it intends to commence work governed by this chapter for facilities for
the provision of telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of
plans, specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the
purpose and intent of the facilities, and shall be provided by the
telecommunications retailer to the city not less than ten (10) days prior to
the commencement of work requiring no excavation and not less than thirty (30)
days prior to the commencement of work requiring excavation. The director of
public works shall specify the portion of the right of way upon which the
facility may be placed, used and constructed.
      2.   In the event that the director of public works fails to provide such
specification of location to the telecommunications retailer within either: a)
ten (10) days after service of notice to the city by the telecommunications
retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for new construction or
b) twenty five (25) days after service of notice by the telecommunications
retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new construction, the
telecommunications retailer may commence work without obtaining a permit under
this chapter. For purposes of determining when the ten (10) or twenty five (25)
day period specified in this subsection begins, service of notice to the city
shall be considered to have occurred on the date that the city has received all
of the documentation required to be submitted under subsection (B)1 of this
section.
      3.   Upon the provision of such specification by the city, where a permit
is required for work pursuant to section
6B-5-4 of this chapter the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the city
an application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of subsection (A) of this
section.
   (C)   Additional City Review Of Applications Of Holders Of State
Authorization Under The Cable And Video Competition Law Of 2007: Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a state issued authorization under the cable
and video competition law of 2007 shall be deemed granted forty five (45) days
after the submission to the city, unless otherwise acted upon by the city,
provided the holder has complied with all applicable city codes, ordinances and
regulations. (Ord. 0-10-08, 3-17-2008)
6B-5-6: EFFECT OF PERMIT:
   (A)   Authority Granted; No Property Right Or Other Interest Created: A
permit from the city authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on city rights of way, and does not
create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon the
rights of others who may have an interest in the public rights of way.
   (B)   Compliance With All Laws Required: The issuance of a permit by the
city does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the city and all applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
(Ord. 0-10-08, 3-17-2008)
6B-5-7: REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS:
In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the city within ninety (90) days
after the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans shall
specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities deviate from
the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the permit also
deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated as a
request for variance in accordance with section
6B-5-21 of this chapter. If the city denies the request for a variance, then
the permittee shall either remove the facility from the right of way or modify
the facility so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or
plans therefor. (Ord. 0-10-08, 3-17-2008)
6B-5-8: INSURANCE:
   (A)   Required Coverages And Limits: Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license, or similar agreement, each utility occupying right of way or
constructing any facility in the right of way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the city, and its elected and appointed officers, officials, agents,
and employees as additional insureds on the policies listed in subsections (A)1
and (A)2 of this section:
      1.   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as "X", "C", and "U" coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
         (a)   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death
to each person;
         (b)   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
         (c)   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability;
      2.   Automobile liability for owned, nonowned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal
injury and property damage for each accident;
      3.   Workers' compensation with statutory limits; and
      4.   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee and per accident.
If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the contractors and
subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and subcontractors
shall comply with this section.
   (B)   Excess Or Umbrella Policies: The coverages required by this section
may be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any excess
or umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   (C)   Copies Required: The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the city within ten (10) days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the city. In lieu of a copy of the
policy, a certificate indicating that the insurance policies required by this
section have been obtained and are in force, may be submitted with the approval
of the director of public works.
   (D)   Maintenance And Renewal Of Required Coverages: The insurance policies
required by this section shall contain the following endorsement:
      It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled
nor the intention not to renew be stated until ten (10) days after receipt by
the City, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of a
written notice addressed to the City's Director of Public Works of such intent
to cancel or not to renew.
   Within seven (7) days after receipt by the city of said notice, and in no
event later than three (3) days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall
obtain and furnish to the city evidence of replacement insurance policies
meeting the requirements of this section.
   (E)   Self-Insurance: A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by subsection (A) of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under subsection (A) of this section, or the requirements of
subsections (B), (C) and (D) of this section. A utility that elects to self-
insure shall provide to the city evidence sufficient to demonstrate its
financial ability to self-insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements
required under subsection (A) of this section, such as evidence that the
utility is a "private self-insurer" under the workers' compensation act.
   (F)   Effect Of Insurance And Self-Insurance On Utility's Liability: The
legal liability of the utility to the city and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder. (Ord. 0-10-08, 3-
17-2008)
6B-5-9: INDEMNIFICATION:
By occupying or constructing facilities in the right of way, a utility shall be
deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the city and its elected and
appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney fees, and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights of way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license, or similar agreement;
provided, however, that the utility's indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this
chapter by the city, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives. (Ord. 0-10-08, 3-17-2008)
6B-5-10: SECURITY:
   (A)   Purpose: The permittee shall establish a security fund in a form and
in an amount as set forth in this section. The security fund shall be
continuously maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee's sole
cost and expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit.
The security fund shall serve as security for:
      1.   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements of
this chapter;
      2.   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the city occasioned by
the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations, orders,
permits and other directives of the city issued pursuant to this chapter; and
      3.   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the city may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by permittee in violation of this chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform that the city must perform itself or have
completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the city from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter or any other applicable law.
   (B)   Form: The permittee shall provide the security fund to the city in the
form, at the permittee's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form acceptable
to the city, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form acceptable to the
city. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided pursuant to this subsection
shall, at a minimum:
      1.   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
city and the permittee;
      2.   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the city of any amounts covered by it; and
      3.   Shall provide a location within Cook, McHenry, Lake, Kane, or DuPage
Counties, Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   (C)   Amount: The dollar amount of the security fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right of way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the city, and may also include reasonable, directly
related costs that the city estimates are likely to be incurred if the
permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where the construction of
facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in phases in multiple
locations in the city, with each phase consisting of construction of facilities
in one location or a related group of locations, and where construction in
another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial completion of
restoration in the previous phase or phases, the city may, in the exercise of
sound discretion, allow the permittee to post a single amount of security which
shall be applicable to each phase of the construction under the permit. The
amount of the security fund for phased construction shall be equal to the
greatest amount that would have been required under the provisions of this
subsection for any single phase. The security fund for each construction
project will be ten dollars ($10.00) per linear foot of the project, or the
company may post a yearly cash retainer or letter of credit for twenty thousand
dollars ($20,000.00) (replenished yearly), or a bond for an amount determined
by the city, for all construction work to be undertaken that year.
   (D)   Withdrawals: The city, upon fourteen (14) days' advance written notice
stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal rights under
this subsection, may withdraw an amount from the security fund, provided that
the permittee has not reimbursed the city for such amount within the fourteen
(14) day notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
      1.   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      2.   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      3.   Fails to reimburse the city for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the city has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or nonperformance by the permittee; or
      4.   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the city
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the security fund.
   (E)   Replenishment: Within fourteen (14) days after receipt of written
notice from the city that any amount has been withdrawn from the security fund,
the permittee shall restore the security fund to the amount specified in
subsection (C) of this section.
   (F)   Interest: The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the security fund be returned to the permittee by the city,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the city, provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the security fund below the minimum balance required
in subsection (C) of this section.
   (G)   Closing And Return Of Security Fund: Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the security fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the city for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the security fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the city to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the city as a result of said revocation, provided
that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
   (H)   Rights Not Limited: The rights reserved to the city with respect to
the security fund are in addition to all other rights of the city, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said security fund shall affect
any other right the city may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city
shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any of its
rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated. (Ord. 0-10-08, 3-17-2008)
6B-5-11: PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
   (A)   City Right To Revoke Permit: The city may revoke or suspend a permit
issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following reasons:
      1.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      2.   Noncompliance with this chapter;
      3.   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the public rights of way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
or
      4.   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   (B)   Notice Of Revocation Or Suspension: The city shall send written notice
of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this chapter
stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   (C)   Permittee Alternatives Upon Receipt Of Notice Of Revocation Or
Suspension: Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the city, the permittee shall have the following options:
      1.   Immediately provide the city with evidence that no cause exists for
the revocation or suspension;
      2.   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the city, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the city within five (5) working days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation;
      3.   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within the public rights of way and restore the rights
of way to the satisfaction of the city providing written proof of such removal
to the city within ten (10) days after receipt of the written notice of
revocation.
The city may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the time periods
provided in this subsection; or
   (D)   City Correction And Notice: If the deficiency creates an imminent
threat to life, health or safety, the city may correct the deficiency
immediately upon verbal notice by the city to permittee. The city will send an
invoice to the permittee for the actual costs of correction and shall be paid
by the permittee within thirty (30) days of the date of the invoice.
   (E)   Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the city may issue a stop work order immediately upon discovery
of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within subsection (A) of this
section.
   (F)   Failure Or Refusal Of The Permittee To Comply: If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of subsection (C) of this section, the city or
its designee may, at the option of the city: 1) correct the deficiencies; 2)
upon not less than twenty (20) days' notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment; or 3) after not less than thirty (30) days'
notice to the permittee of failure to cure the noncompliance, deem them
abandoned and property of the city. The permittee shall be liable in all events
to the city for all costs of removal. (Ord. 0-10-08, 3-17-2008)
6B-5-12: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER'S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS:
   (A)   Notification Of Change: A utility shall notify the city no less than
thirty (30) days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the
right of way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility
or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and all applicable laws, ordinances,
rules and regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right of way.
   (B)   Amended Permit: A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the city's right of
way.
   (C)   Insurance And Bonding: All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer. (Ord. 0-10-08,
3-17-2008)
6B-5-13: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   (A)   Standards And Principles: All construction in the right of way shall
be consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations,
and commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction
principles, sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles
and standards set forth in any applicable ordinances, rules, regulations or
manuals of the city and in the following IDOT publications:
      1.   "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction";
      2.   "Supplemental Specifications And Recurring Special Provisions";
      3.   "Highway Design Manual";
      4.   "Highway Standards Manual";
      5.   "Standard Specifications For Traffic Control Items";
      6.   "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (92 Ill. adm.
code section 545);
      7.   "Flagger's Handbook"; and
      8.   "Work Site Protection Manual For Daylight Maintenance Operations".
   (B)   Interpretation Of Municipal Standards And Principles: If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the director of public works shall determine, in the exercise of sound
engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall be final.
If requested, the director of public works shall state which standard or
principle will apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation of a
facility in the future. (Ord. 0-10-08, 3-17-2008)
6B-5-14: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
   (A)   Minimum Requirements: The city's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices" and this code. The city director of public works may require that
additional traffic protection measures be taken, if because of the location
where the work is to be performed or because of anticipated high traffic
volumes, he determines additional traffic protection measures are warranted.
   (B)   Warning Signs, Protective Devices, And Flaggers: The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting all applicable federal, state, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the public rights of way.
   (C)   Interference With Traffic: All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic. The director of
public works may prohibit work from being performed at specified hours or on
specified days where higher than usual traffic volumes are anticipated.
   (D)   Notice When Access Is Blocked: At least forty eight (48) hours prior
to beginning work that will partially or completely block access to any
residence, business or institution, the utility shall notify the resident,
business or institution of the approximate beginning time and duration of such
work; provided, however, that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to
section
6B-5-20 of this chapter, the utility shall provide such notice as is
practicable under the circumstances.
   (E)   Compliance: The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the city. (Ord. 0-10-08, 3-17-2008)
6B-5-15: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   (A)   Parallel Facilities Located Within Rights Of Way:
      1.   Overhead Parallel Facilities: An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right of way only if overhead utility facilities already
exist in the area of the right of way where the overhead parallel facility is
proposed to be located and if:
         (a)   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right of way
line and as nearly parallel to the right of way line as reasonable pole
alignment will permit;
         (b)   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable
from the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (2') (0.6 m) behind the face
of the curb, where available;
         (c)   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (4') (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         (d)   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         (e)   Any ground mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (1')
(0.3 m) of the right of way or as near as possible to the right of way line.
      2.   Underground Parallel Facilities: An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right of way only if approved by the director of
public works and:
         (a)   The facility is located as near the right of way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (8') (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right of way line, and five feet (5') (1.5 m) from any water main;
         (b)   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
roadway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         (c)   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as approved by the director of public works and any
above grounded appurtenance shall be located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of
the right of way line or as near as practicable.
   (B)   Facilities Crossing Roadways:
      1.   No Future Disruption: The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of city roadways may
require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement or
additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadway
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      2.   Culverts Or Drainage Facilities: Crossing facilities shall not be
located in culverts, or drainage facilities.
      3.   Ninety Degree Crossing Required: Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a ninety degree (90°) angle to the centerline as practicable,
unless otherwise approved by the director of public works.
      4.   Overhead Power Or Communication Facility: An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a right of way only if:
         (a)   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ILCC's
rules entitled, "construction of electric power and communication lines" (83
Ill. adm. code 305);
         (b)   Poles are located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of
way line and outside of the clear zone; and
         (c)   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      5.   Underground Power Or Communication Facility: An underground power or
communication facility may cross a right of way only if:
         (a)   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance free service life; and
         (b)   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      6.   Markers: The city may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right of way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations (49 CFR 192.707).
   (C)   Facilities To Be Located Within Particular Rights Of Way: The city may
require that facilities be located within particular rights of way (a public
utility easement, for example) that are not highways, rather than within
particular highways.
   (D)   Freestanding Facilities:
      1.   The city may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right of way.
      2.   The city may require any freestanding facility located within a
right of way to be screened from view.
   (E)   Appearance Standards:
      1.   The city may prohibit the installation of facilities in particular
locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      2.   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees, vegetation or terrain
features visible to the highway user.
   (F)   Aboveground Installation: Aboveground facilities may be installed only
if:
      1.   Existing facilities in the area are located aboveground;
      2.   New underground installation is not technically feasible as
determined by the director of public works;
      3.   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged;
      4.   The aboveground facilities installed are located so as to cause only
minimal interference with the use of any right of way within which the
facilities are installed and with the rights and reasonable convenience of
property owners who adjoin said right of way; and
      5.   The smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power
pedestals, and/or cabinets then in use by the facility owner for the type of
aboveground facility shall be used.
   (G)   Facility Attachments To Bridges Or Roadway Structures:
      1.   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      2.   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         (a)   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         (b)   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the roadway
structure in the transportation system;
         (c)   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         (d)   The proposed method of attachment;
         (e)   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         (f)   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         (g)   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         (h)   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved. (Ord. 0-10-08, 3-17-2008)
6B-5-16: CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS:
   (A)   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Construction
Methods:
      1.   Boring Or Jacking:
         (a)   Pits And Shoring: Boring or jacking under rights of way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the city
engineer and/or director of public works from the edge of the pavement. Pits
for boring or jacking shall be excavated no more than forty eight (48) hours in
advance of boring or jacking operations and backfilled within forty eight (48)
hours after boring or jacking operations are completed. While pits are open,
they shall be clearly marked and protected by barricades. Shoring shall be
designed, erected, supported, braced, and maintained so that it will safely
support all vertical and lateral loads that may be imposed upon it during the
boring or jacking operation.
         (b)   Wet Boring Or Jetting: Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         (c)   Borings With Diameters Greater Than Six Inches: Borings over six
inches (6") (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and
following pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside
diameter of the following pipe by more than one inch (1") (25 mm).
         (d)   Borings With Diameters Six Inches Or Less: Borings of six inches
(6") or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with
auger, or auger and following pipe method.
         (e)   Tree Preservation: Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the city to be preserved shall be bored under or around
the root system.
      2.   Trenching: Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights of way shall be done in accord with any applicable
ordinances, rules, regulations or manuals of the city and the applicable
portions of section 603 of IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction".
         (a)   Length: The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe/line testing. Only
one-half (1/2) of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless
special permission is obtained from the city engineer and/or director of public
works.
         (b)   Open Trench And Excavated Material: Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by chapter 6 of the "Illinois
Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices". Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right of way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off road location.
         (c)   Drip Line: The utility shall not trench within the drip line of
any tree designated by the city to be preserved.
      3.   Backfilling:
         (a)   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation
of facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with any applicable ordinances, rules,
regulations or manuals of the city and with IDOT's "Standard Specifications For
Road And Bridge Construction". When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         (b)   For a period of three (3) years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfill area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the director of public works, the utility, at its expense, shall
remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed facility,
place and properly compact new backfill material, and restore new pavement,
sidewalk, curbs, and driveways to the proper grades, as determined by the
director of public works.
      4.   Pavement Cuts: Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a roadway only if that portion of the roadway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this subsection is
permitted under section
6B-5-21 of this chapter, the following requirements shall apply:
         (a)   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled as soon as
practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as designated by
the director of public works.
         (b)   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the city.
         (c)   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         (d)   For all rights of way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven (7) years, or resurfaced in the last
four (4) years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to
be an emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before
the time of the reconstruction or resurfacing or unless a pavement cut is
necessary for a JULIE locate.
      5.   Encasement:
         (a)   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
roadway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
city. Casing pipes shall be installed where required and approved by the
director of public works.
         (b)   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of way line. No aboveground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the roadway.
         (c)   In the case of gas pipelines of sixty (60) psig or less,
encasement may be eliminated.
         (d)   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines
with installations of more than sixty (60) psig, encasement may be eliminated
only if: 1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or
repair and 2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         (e)   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right of way.
      6.   Minimum Cover Of Underground Facilities: Cover shall be provided and
maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for minimum
cover for the type of facility:
 
Type Of Facility                      Minimum Cover
Power lines                           30 inches (0.8 m)
Communication, cable or video service 24 inches (0.6 m)
lines
Gas or petroleum products             30 inches (0.8 m)
Water line                            72 inches (1.83 m)
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or       Sufficient cover to provide freeze
drainage line                         protection, as approved by city engineer
                                      or director of public works
 
   (B)   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Facilities.
      1.   Electric Power Or Communication Lines:
         (a)   Code Compliance: Electric power or communications facilities
within city rights of way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Illinois administrative code 305 (formerly
general order 160 of the Illinois commerce commission) entitled "rules for
construction of electric power and communications lines", and the national
electrical safety code.
         (b)   Overhead Facilities: Overhead power or communication facilities,
if otherwise permitted under this chapter, shall use single pole construction
and, where practicable, joint use of poles shall be used. Utilities shall make
every reasonable effort to design the installation so guys and braces will not
be needed. Variances may be allowed if there is no feasible alternative and if
guywires are equipped with guy guards for maximum visibility.
         (c)   Underground Facilities:
            (1)   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            (2)   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if: a) the crossing is installed by the use of "moles", "whip augers", or
other approved methods which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation or b) the installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            (3)   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the national
electrical safety code.
         (d)   Burial Of Drops: All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snow drops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the city. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snow drops, within ten (10) business days
after placement.
      2.   Underground Facilities Other Than Electric Power Or Communication
Lines: Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         (a)   The use of "moles", "whip augers", or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         (b)   Jacking or boring with encasement provided between the ditch
lines or toes of slopes of the roadway;
         (c)   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction;
         (d)   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is
not possible by other means; or
         (e)   Open trench in a manner approved by city engineer and/or
director of public works.
      3.   Gas Transmission, Distribution And Service: Gas pipelines within
rights of way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a city approved
manner and in conformance with the federal code of the office of pipeline
safety operations, department of transportation, part 192 - transportation of
natural gas and other gas by pipeline: minimum federal safety standards (49 CFR
192), IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", and
all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      4.   Petroleum Products Pipelines: Petroleum products pipelines within
rights of way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI standard code
for pressure piping (liquid petroleum transportation piping systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      5.   Water Lines, Sanitary Sewer Lines, Storm Water Sewer Lines Or
Drainage Lines: Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and
drainage lines within rights of way shall meet or exceed the requirements of
the city's design manual and the current "Standard Specifications For Water And
Sewer Main Construction In Illinois".
      6.   Ground Mounted Appurtenances: Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right of way, shall
be provided with a vegetation free area extending one foot (1') (305 mm) in
width beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation free area may
be provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the city engineer and/or director of public works.
With the approval of the city engineer and/or director of public works,
shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be used in place of vegetation free
area. The housing for ground mounted appurtenances shall be painted a neutral
color to blend with the surroundings.
   (C)   Materials:
      1.   General Standards: The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights of way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the requirements of the city's design manual, and the
applicable portions of IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction", the requirements of the Illinois commerce commission, or the
standards established by other official regulatory agencies for the appropriate
industry.
      2.   Material Storage On Right Of Way: No material shall be stored in the
right of way without the prior written approval of the city engineer. When such
storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles, cross arms, or other
materials shall be distributed along the right of way prior to and during
installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an obstacle to
right of way maintenance or damage to the right of way and other property. If
material is to be stored on right of way, prior approval must be obtained from
the city.
      3.   Hazardous Materials: The plans submitted by the utility to the city
shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the construction
of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   (D)   Operational Restrictions:
      1.   Construction operations on rights of way may, at the discretion of
the city, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right of way or other
property.
      2.   These restrictions may be waived by the director of public works
when emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
      3.   Unless otherwise permitted by the city or restricted in accordance
with this chapter, the hours of construction are sunrise to sunset.
   (E)   Location Of Existing Facilities: Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the city shall contact JULIE and ascertain the presence and
location of existing aboveground and underground facilities within the rights
of way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The city will make its permit
records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the city or by
JULIE, a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities
within forty eight (48) hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance
with the Illinois underground facilities damage prevention act 1 . (Ord. 0-10-
08, 3-17-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.
6B-5-17: VEGETATION CONTROL:
   (A)   Electric Utilities; Compliance With State Laws And Regulations: An
electric utility shall conduct all tree trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right of way in accordance with applicable Illinois laws and
regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the city of Darien as permitted by law.
   (B)   Other Utilities; Tree Trimming Permit Required: Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right of way and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable Illinois laws and regulations specifically
governing same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this chapter.
      1.   Application For Tree Trimming Permit: Applications for tree trimming
permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by competent
workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      2.   Damage To Trees: Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The city will require
compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed without
authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The city may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   (C)   Specimen Trees Or Trees Of Special Significance: The city may require
that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of special
significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side arm
extensions, covered wire or other means.
   (D)   Chemical Use: Spraying of any type of vegetation controlling chemicals
will not be permitted on rights of way unless approved by the city engineer
and/or director of public works. (Ord. 0-10-08, 3-17-2008)
6B-5-18: REMOVAL, RELOCATION, OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES:
   (A)   Notice: Within ninety (90) days following written notice from the
city, a utility shall, at its own expense, temporarily or permanently remove,
relocate, change or alter the position of any utility facilities within the
rights of way whenever the corporate authorities have determined that such
removal, relocation, change or alteration, is reasonably necessary for the
construction, repair, maintenance, or installation of any city improvement in
or upon, or the operations of the city in or upon, the rights of way.
   (B)   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the city, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains any
unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the public rights of way
shall, at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or
appurtenances from the public rights of way. A facility is unauthorized and
subject to removal in the following circumstances:
      1.   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      2.   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior grant
of a license or franchise, if required;
      3.   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      4.   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   (C)   Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities: The city retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights of
way of the city, as the city may determine to be necessary, appropriate or
useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If circumstances
permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if known, prior
to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if known, after
cutting or removing a facility.
   (D)   Abandonment Of Facilities: Upon abandonment of a facility within the
public rights of way of the city, the utility shall notify the city within
ninety (90) days. Following receipt of such notice the city may direct the
utility to remove all or any portion of the facility if the director of public
works determines that such removal will be in the best interest of the public
health, safety and welfare. In the event that the city does not direct the
utility that abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice of
abandonment to the city, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to consent to
the alteration or removal of all or any portion of the facility by another
utility or person. (Ord. 0-10-08, 3-17-2008)
6B-5-19: CLEANUP AND RESTORATION:
Upon completion of all construction or maintenance of facilities, the utility
shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and terrain within ten
(10) days, and to the satisfaction of the city. This includes restoration of
all disturbed areas. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using
materials and methods approved by the director of public works. Such cleanup
and repair may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading, reseeding,
resodding, or any other requirement to restore the right of way to a condition
substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to the commencement of the
project. (Ord. 0-10-08, 3-17-2008)
6B-5-20: MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE:
   (A)   General: Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights of way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the city and at the utility's expense.
   (B)   Emergency Maintenance Procedures: Emergencies may justify
noncompliance with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      1.   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right of way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the roadway or the public on the right of way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      2.   In an emergency, the utility shall, immediately, notify the city
police department of the situation. This notification shall include a
description of the problem, work being undertaken, and what steps have been
taken for protection of the traveling public and what will be required to make
the necessary repairs. If the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere
with the free movement of traffic, the city police department shall be notified
immediately.
      3.   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to complete
repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to the
traveling public.
   (C)   Emergency Repairs: The utility must file in writing with the director
of public works a description of the repairs undertaken in the right of way
within forty eight (48) hours after an emergency repair. (Ord. 0-10-08, 3-17-
2008)
6B-5-21: VARIANCES:
   (A)   Request For Variance: A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the director of
public works as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify
each provision of this chapter from which a variance is requested and the
reasons why a variance should be granted.
   (B)   Authority To Grant Variances: The city council shall decide whether a
variance is authorized for each provision of this chapter identified in the
variance request on an individual basis.
   (C)   Conditions For Granting Of Variance: The city council may authorize a
variance only if the utility requesting the variance has demonstrated that:
      1.   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such as
terrain features or an irregular right of way line) create a special hardship
that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the public
purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      2.   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   (D)   Additional Conditions For Granting Of A Variance: As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the city council may require the utility requesting the
variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions that may or may not be
expressly contained within this chapter but which carry out the purposes of
this chapter. (Ord. 0-10-08, 3-17-2008)
6B-5-22: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to fine in accordance
with the penalty provisions of this code. There may be times when the city will
incur delay or other costs, including third party claims, because the utility
will not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and this chapter. Unless
the utility shows that another allocation of the cost of undertaking the
requested action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the city's costs of
damages and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying, relocating, or
removing the facility that is the subject of the permit. No other
administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a permit related
cost appointment of the city. Sanctions may be imposed upon a utility that does
not pay the costs apportioned to it. (Ord. 0-10-08, 3-17-2008)
6B-5-23: ENFORCEMENT:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the city may have for enforcement of this chapter. (Ord.
0-10-08, 3-17-2008)
CHAPTER 6
RIGHT OF WAY ACCESS REGULATIONS FOR DEVELOPMENTS NOT SUBJECT TO CITY REGULATION
SECTION:
6B-6-1: Title
6B-6-2: Definitions
6B-6-3: Intent
6B-6-4: Applicability
6B-6-5: General Procedures And Submittal Information
6B-6-6: Initiation
6B-6-7: Application
6B-6-8: Standards
6B-6-9: Requirements
6B-6-10: Permit Required
6B-6-11: Acceptance Of Required Street Improvements And Curb Cuts; Annual Right
Of Way Maintenance Fee
6B-6-12: Costs And Fees
6B-6-13: Validity
6B-6-14: Violation; Penalty
6B-6-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as RIGHT OF WAY ACCESS REGULATIONS FOR DEVELOPMENTS
NOT SUBJECT TO CITY REGULATION. (Ord. 0-27-02, 7-15-2002)
6B-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions set forth in subsection
6B-3-4(A) of this title are hereby adopted as the definitions, of this chapter.
In addition, for the purposes of this chapter, the following term shall have
the meaning herein ascribed to it:
RIGHT OF WAY ACCESS OR "ROW ACCESS": Use or improvement of city right of way
for purposes of ingress to and egress from properties and developments not
located in the city of Darien. (Ord. 0-27-02, 7-15-2002)
6B-6-3: INTENT:
The city recognizes that the very nature of land development, whether within
the city's corporate boundaries or outside the city's corporate boundaries,
creates potential for traffic congestion, overcrowding, adverse environmental
impacts, and health related problems. From time to time developments outside of
the corporate boundaries of the city of Darien seek access to the city's public
rights of way. Because such development is not subject to the city's zoning and
subdivision regulations, the city desires to develop an evaluation process for
properties requesting access to and through city owned streets. To ensure that
the details of developing commercial, office, research, and industrial areas
for authorized uses outside of the city will be such that the operation of the
uses will not offend the public interest, will be compatible, will be planned
in conformity with surrounding uses, and will not adversely affect the flow of
traffic within the corporate boundaries of the city, a site plan, along with
other required documentation shall be submitted for approval by the corporate
authorities, after review by the director of community development and the city
engineer. The purpose of this approval process for development located outside
of the city is to control access points on the city's roadways, to stabilize
pedestrian and automobile traffic, and to protect the health, safety and
general welfare of the citizens of the city of Darien. (Ord. 0-27-02, 7-15-
2002)
6B-6-4: APPLICABILITY:
All applications to use, improve or otherwise utilize public rights of way
within the corporate boundaries of the city for ingress and egress to
developments not within the zoning jurisdiction and subdivision approval of the
city, shall be subject to approval in accordance with the provisions
established within this chapter. (Ord. 0-27-02, 7-15-2002)
6B-6-5: GENERAL PROCEDURES AND SUBMITTAL INFORMATION:
Prior to the filing of a formal application for right of way access approval,
the petitioner shall attend a preapplication meeting with the director of
community development. The director of community development may require
submittal of a site plan, plat of survey, engineering plan or other similar
information for any proposed development located outside corporate boundaries
of the city, requesting right of way access or seeking access to property by
way of any right of way within the corporate boundaries of the city. All
required site plans, plats of survey and other required information shall
conform to the requirements of this chapter. The following plans shall be
required by the director of community development as part of the preapplication
process:
   (A)   Plats Of Survey: Plats of survey must indicate all existing conditions
and shall be signed and sealed by an Illinois registered surveyor.
   (B)   Site Plans: A site plan shall be prepared by either a licensed
architect, a licensed landscape architect, a registered land surveyor, a
licensed engineer, or a professional land planner. At a minimum, said site plan
shall include the following information:
      1.   Lot dimensions;
      2.   All buildings and structures, existing and proposed;
      3.   Easements, including location, width and purpose of existing and
proposed easements;
      4.   Yards and spaces between buildings;
      5.   Walls and fences;
      6.   Vehicular, pedestrian, and service access, including the distance
from the driveway opening at the curb to the prolongation of the property line
of the nearest intersection street, the width of the driveway at the property
line, the curb radius on each side of the driveway, identification and location
of the curb lines, property lines, sidewalks, existing driveways, bus zones,
parking regulations and signs, traffic signals, utility poles, parkway meters,
light standards, and fire hydrants;
      7.   Off street parking and loading facilities, including number of
spaces and dimensions of parking areas;
      8.   Location of outdoor storage and activities, if allowed;
      9.   Location of refuse disposal facilities;
      10.   All existing and proposed improvements in the adjacent rights of
way within the corporate boundaries of the city;
      11.   Surrounding land uses and zoning of all properties within three
hundred feet (300') of the subject property, excluding rights of way.
   (C)   Final Engineering Plans: Final engineering plans shall be prepared by
a licensed engineer. Detailed plans shall be submitted for the design,
construction, or installation of site amenities; including buildings,
landscaping, lakes, sewer, water, storm water and floodwater control, street
facilities, and other site improvements, including specifications. Said plans
shall include drainage and grading plans and utility plans. If requested,
applicable storm water calculations, wetland delineation, and floodplain
delineation are required with the engineering plans. Classification of roads
within the corporate limits of the city on which curb cuts are requested,
including width of right of way, width of pavement and typical construction
details are required.
   (D)   Landscape Plans: Landscape plans shall be prepared by either a
licensed architect, a licensed landscape architect, a licensed land surveyor, a
licensed engineer, or a professional land planner.
   (E)   Freestanding Sign Plans: Freestanding sign plans shall be submitted.
   (F)   Building Elevations: Building elevations.
   (G)   Photometric Plans: Photometric plans including location, size, height
and method of illumination.
   (H)   Traffic Study: A traffic analysis prepared by a licensed traffic
engineer providing information on the adequacy of the local transportation and
thoroughfare system to handle anticipated traffic volumes generated by the
development, potential traffic hazards and points of friction caused by the
proposed development, and proposed road improvements deemed necessary to
service the development, and an analysis of the adequacy of the internal
vehicular circulation pattern. (Ord. 0-27-02, 7-15-2002)
6B-6-6: INITIATION:
   (A)   Procedure: Right of way access requests shall be granted in accordance
with the procedures and standards of this chapter. The procedures described
herein shall be the exclusive procedures for processing applications seeking
approval of right of way access located within the corporate boundaries of the
city to serve developments located outside the corporate limits of the city. In
the event that conflict arises between the provision of this chapter and
another provision of this title, a provision of the zoning title, or a
provision of any other ordinance of the city, the provisions of this chapter
shall prevail. Applicants shall comply, however, with all laws of the state and
ordinances of the city except to the extent that such ordinances have been
modified pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Application Forms: Applications shall be made on forms provided by the
city and shall be accompanied by the required documents, detailed plans,
drawings and other information as specified by this chapter.
An application for right of way access subject to approval under this chapter
shall be acted upon by the city council only after a public hearing has been
held by the plan commission after due notice by publication as provided in
subsection
6B-6-7(D) of this chapter, and after receiving the recommendation of the
planning and development committee. The public hearing and notification
procedures shall be conducted in accordance with section
5A-2-3 of the zoning title.
   (C)   Application: Any person being the owner, lessee, or contract purchaser
of the subject property may file an application for right of way access, only
after the preapplication meeting and preapplication submissions have been made
in accordance with section
6B-6-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 0-27-02, 7-15-2002)
6B-6-7: APPLICATION:
   (A)   Application Submission: The following materials shall be filed with
the department of community development:
      1.   Written application for review, in triplicate, shall be filed with
the department of community development on forms prescribed by the city.
      2.   A filing fee, the amount of which shall be established by ordinance
of the city council in light of the complexity of the proposed project, the
number of contemplated hearings, and other municipal expenses.
      3.   Fifteen (15) copies of the site plan and supporting data, plans or
information required in section
6B-6-5 of this chapter.
   (B)   Acceptance Of Application: After all the required documents are filed
with the department of community development, a copy of the request shall be
forwarded to the city clerk. The department of community development shall
review the application to determine completeness. No application shall be
accepted by the city for processing until all the required documentation has
been submitted by the applicant. If the application is deemed incomplete, the
department of community development shall prepare a written report specifying
the information and documentation that must be submitted by the applicant to
complete the application, with a copy of such being forwarded to the city
clerk. The department of community development shall return the application
with such written report to the applicant. If the application is deemed
complete by the department of community development, it shall be processed. The
department shall notify the applicant that the city has accepted the
application.
   (C)   City Staff Review: The department of community development shall also
forward copies of the application and supporting data to city staff for review
and recommendations. The staff shall submit a written report and recommendation
within a reasonable time.
   (D)   Action By The Plan Commission:
      1.   Public Hearing: The plan commission shall hold a public hearing
within forty five (45) days from the date the staff report has been submitted
to the plan commission. Notice of such hearing shall be published at least once
in a newspaper of general circulation in the city, not more than thirty (30)
nor less than fifteen (15) days before the date of such hearing. A public
hearing once commenced may be continued from time to time. Where the date,
place and time of the next hearing is announced at the close of the last
hearing, no further notice of the next hearing need be made; otherwise, notice
of the date, place and time of the new hearing must be made in the manner
provided by law. Where the applicant objects to a continuance, only one further
continuance of not more than fourteen (14) days shall be allowed. Notice shall
be sent by certified mail to all property owners within three hundred feet
(300') of the subject property, excluding streets. "Property owner" shall be
based on the most recent recorded document, not just the taxpayer of record.
      2.   Plan Commission's Report: The plan commission shall, within sixty
(60) days after the close of the public hearing, submit a written report to the
planning and development committee recommending approval, modification, or
disapproval, and the reasons therefor, or indicate why a recommendation of
approval, modification, or disapproval cannot be rendered to the planning and
development committee, with a copy of such report being sent to the city
council and the applicant. If no report is filed within this time period, and
no time extension is granted by the city council, the application shall be
deemed to have received a recommendation of denial. Provided, however, that if
at any time after the commencement of the public hearing, the city council has
required by motion that the plan commission close the public hearing and
present a written report containing findings and recommendations no later than
forty five (45) days from the date of said motion, the plan commission shall be
so required, and failure to file such report within the forty five (45) days
shall be deemed a recommendation to deny the application. The plan commission
shall set forth in a separate communication to the city council the findings of
fact on which it based its recommendations and describing how the proposal
meets the standards of section
6B-6-8 of this chapter.
   (E)   Action By The Planning And Development Committee: Upon receipt of the
recommendation of the plan commission and receipt of the required reports, the
planning and development committee shall forward a recommendation to the city
council to approve, modify, or disapprove the application, or refer the matter
back to the plan commission for further consideration.
   (F)   Action By City Council:
      1.   The city council, after receipt of the report of the plan commission
and the planning and development committee or, without any further public
hearing, may approve or deny the application, or resubmit the application to
the plan commission for further consideration.
      2.   If an application for right of way access is not acted upon finally
within ninety (90) days of the date upon which such application is initially
returned to the city council from the plan commission, it shall be deemed to
have been denied. However, if the applicant requests the city council to extend
the ninety (90) day time period, or if the city council chooses to do so on its
own motion, the city council may postpone its final action for up to an
additional ninety (90) days. If the application is not acted upon within the
time extension period, the application shall be deemed to have been denied.
      3.   Prior to granting the application for right of way access, the city
council may stipulate certain conditions and restrictions, including, but not
limited to, those upon the location, construction and maintenance of the right
of way access as deemed necessary for the protection of the public interest and
to secure compliance with the standards and requirements specified herein, or
as may be from time to time required. In all cases in which right of way
access, located within the corporate boundaries of the city, to serve a
development located outside the corporate limits of the city, is granted, the
city shall require such evidence and guarantees as it may deem necessary as
proof that the conditions stipulated in connection therewith are being, and
will be complied with, including, but not limited to, the acceptance in writing
of the owner of the property to be developed and other interested parties of
the conditions and guarantees set forth within the ordinance granting the right
of way access. A copy of the ordinance bearing the acceptance may be recorded
in the office of the county recorder of DuPage County. The acceptance shall be
in approximately the following form:
The undersigned being the (owner, tenant, contract purchaser, etc.) of the
property legally described in this ordinance (number) do/does hereby accept and
agree to abide by the requirements and guarantees contained and required within
this ordinance, and does hereby acknowledge that the fulfillment of such
conditions and guarantees are essential to the granting of the right-of-way
access allowed herein, and that but for the imposition of these requirements
and guarantees the right-of-may access would not have been granted. The
undersigned do/does further certify and agree that such conditions and
guarantees shall equally bind and be effective against any/all successor(s) to
the interest of the undersigned. The commitment herein made shall run with the
land and shall be enforceable by the City of Darien in a court of law or equity
in addition to any and all other remedies available to the City to secure
compliance with the conditions and guarantees agreed to herein.
      4.   No application for right of way access which has been denied wholly
or in part by the city council shall be resubmitted for a period of one year
from the date of said order of denial, except on the grounds of substantial new
evidence or proof of changed conditions to be found valid by the city council
who shall in such case refer the application to the plan commission for a new
hearing pursuant to proper legal notice. (Ord. 0-27-02, 7-15-2002)
6B-6-8: STANDARDS:
   (A)   The plan commission and city council shall consider the following
factors acting on a right of way access application:
      1.   Existing uses of property within the general area of the property in
question, and the resulting character of the general area;
      2.   The zoning classifications of property located within the corporate
boundaries of the city within the general area of the property in question;
      3.   The extent to which property values within the corporate limits of
the city are diminished by granting the right of way access permit;
      4.   The extent to which the destruction of city property values promotes
the health, safety, morals or general welfare of the public; and
      5.   The relative gain to the public as compared to the hardship imposed
upon the petitioner from the absence of the right of way access.
   (B)   A right of way access shall not be recommended to the city council by
the plan commission, nor approved by the city council unless findings of fact
have been made on the following factors which relate to the right of way access
being sought:
      1.   Whether the purpose of the right of way access is based upon a
desire to increase financial gain or is deemed necessary for public convenience
at the location(s) specified in the application;
      2.   Whether the proposed right of way access will merely serve as a
convenience to the applicant or whether it will alleviate some demonstrable and
unusual hardship which will result if the strict letter of the regulations were
carried out and which is not generally applicable to surrounding and/or
adjacent property within the corporate boundaries of the city;
      3.   Whether the alleged hardship has been created by any person
presently having a proprietary interest in the subject property;
      4.   Whether the establishment, maintenance, or operation of the right of
way access will be detrimental to, or endanger the public health, safety, or
general welfare;
      5.   Whether either the proposed right of way access or the development
being served thereby will be injurious to the use and enjoyment of other
property within the corporate boundaries of the city in the immediate vicinity
for purposes already permitted, or substantially diminish and impair property
values within said neighborhood, utilizing the factors set forth in subsection
(A) of this section;
      6.   Whether the proposed right of way access unreasonably increases
congestion in the public streets, increases the danger of fire, or endangers
the public safety;
      7.   Whether the right of way access will alter the essential character
of the neighborhood, or impede the normal and orderly development and
improvement of the surrounding property for uses permitted in the zoning
district within the corporate boundaries of the city;
      8.   Whether the exterior architectural design, landscape treatment, and
functional plan of any proposed structure within the development will be at
variation with either the exterior architectural, landscape treatment, and
functional plan of the structures already constructed or in the course of
construction in the immediate neighborhood within the corporate limits of the
city or the character of the adjacent zoning district within the corporate
limits of the city, as to cause a substantial depreciation in the property
values within said neighborhood;
      9.   Whether adequate utilities, access roads, drainage, and/or necessary
facilities have been or are being provided;
      10.   Whether adequate measures have been taken to place the right of way
access as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets; and
      11.   Whether the proposed right of way access is in harmony with the
spirit and intent of this chapter. (Ord. 0-27-02, 7-15-2002)
6B-6-9: REQUIREMENTS:
No application for right of way access shall be approved unless the following
requirements are met:
   (A)   Street Specifications: Final engineering shall be submitted showing
all public rights of way within the corporate boundaries of the city to be used
by the proposed development. Final engineering must demonstrate that the public
right of way does or can be constructed to carry the highest class of vehicles
to service the development. At a minimum such streets must meet the
requirements set forth in the applicable standards of the Illinois department
of transportation ("IDOT") and the American Association of State Highway and
Transportation Officials' ("AASHTO") "A Policy on Geometric Design of Highways
and Streets", latest edition, and as said standards are further amended from
time to time.
      1.   Any proposed stacking lane within the public right of way must be of
a minimum length adequate to accommodate the largest vehicle anticipated to
service the development.
      2.   Any proposed turning lanes within a public right of way after a
major intersection must meet the appropriate IDOT specifications for turning
lanes.
      3.   Rights of way shall be improved without expense to the city when the
city council determines that such improvements are required to meet the
standards for the requested activity and to prevent traffic hazards.
      4.   Traffic control signals or the modification of existing signals will
be provided without expense to the city when the city council determines that
such signals are required to prevent traffic hazards or congestion in adjacent
streets.
      5.   Any required improvements, alterations, construction, maintenance or
repair of public streets and rights of way shall be in accordance with the
regulations and requirements set forth in the applicable IDOT standards and
AASHTO as referenced in this subsection.
   (B)   Vision Clearance At Intersections: Fences, walls, parapets, shrubs,
bushes and other plants and obstructions of a height greater than thirty inches
(30") above the adjoining street grade shall not be permitted in the areas
within triangles formed by extending each of the nearest curb lines of the two
(2) adjoining intersecting streets to two (2) points, each up to, but not
exceeding, fifty feet (50') distant from the point of intersection of said curb
lines and a line connecting said two (2) points.
   (C)   Curb Cut Requirements:
      1.   Abutting Or Adjoining A Nonresidential District: Curb cuts within a
commercial, business, office or industrial district not located within the
corporate boundaries of the city, adjoining or abutting a nonresidential
district, shall not be closer than twenty feet (20') from the adjoining
nonresidential lot.
      2.   Abutting Or Adjoining A Residential District: Curb cuts within a
commercial, business, office or industrial district not located within the
corporate boundaries of the city, adjoining or abutting a residential district,
shall not be closer than thirty feet (30') from the adjoining residential lot.
      3.   Design: Except on lots accommodating single-family dwellings, the
curb cut must be of such width and design as to provide safe and efficient
means of vehicular access to the development and shall not impede the orderly
flow of traffic within any areas of the city. All off street parking facilities
shall be designed with appropriate means of vehicular access to the street in a
manner which will least interfere with traffic movement.
      4.   Driveway Requirements: Driveways and access points on public rights
of way within the corporate boundaries of the city which serve residential
districts not located in the city shall comply with the driveway requirements
set forth in subsection
5A-11-3(A) of the zoning title. Driveways and access points on public rights of
way within the corporate boundaries of the city which serve business,
commercial, office and industrial districts not located in the city shall
comply with the driveway requirements set forth in subsection
5A-11-3(B) of the zoning title. All driveways shall conform to all applicable
driveway specifications adopted by the city.
      5.   Any required improvements, alterations, construction, maintenance or
repair of curbs and driveway aprons shall be in accordance with the regulations
and requirements set forth in chapter 3, "Street And Right Of Way Regulations",
of this title. (Ord. 0-27-02, 7-15-2002)
6B-6-10: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to make any excavation or opening in any
public right of way or opening in any public right of way without first
obtaining a permit from the city as provided in section
6B-3-10 of this title. All such excavations shall be subject to the provisions
set forth in section
6B-3-9 of this title. (Ord. 0-27-02, 7-15-2002)
6B-6-11: ACCEPTANCE OF REQUIRED STREET IMPROVEMENTS AND CURB CUTS; ANNUAL RIGHT
OF WAY MAINTENANCE FEE:
   (A)   Upon completion of the required street improvements and curb cuts, the
owner shall apply to the city for acceptance of said improvements in accordance
with the provisions set forth in chapter 4 of this title.
   (B)   The owner shall pay to the city a five thousand dollar ($5,000.00) per
year maintenance permit fee to be used solely to offset the cost of maintaining
the right of way access. (Ord. 0-27-02, 7-15-2002)
6B-6-12: COSTS AND FEES:
   (A)   City Engineer's Services And Fees: The cost for the review of plans
and specifications, conferences with the owner's engineers and assistance by
the city engineer of the city and inspection by the public works supervisor
shall be paid by the owner. The fee charged shall be in accordance with the
resume of fees and requirements for public improvements on file with the city
clerk and shall be paid prior to issuing the permit. All required improvements,
including street improvements, curb cuts, and driveway aprons to be installed
under this chapter shall be subject to periodic inspection by the public works
supervisor or his duly authorized representative. The cost for such periodic
inspection service shall be charged to the owner based on the resume of fees
and requirements for public improvements on file with the city clerk. The fee
shall become due and payable at such time as any construction is to be
initiated on the project.
   (B)   Additional Costs Of Inspections: Costs of inspections will include the
city's costs for personnel, equipment and material involved which will result
in an adjusted billing at the completion of the project and the cost of
obtaining the city engineer's review and recommended acceptance of the public
improvements.
   (C)   Delinquent Fees And Interest Due: Fees that are not paid within thirty
(30) days after the date they become due and payable shall bear interest at the
rate of eighteen percent (18%) per annum. (Ord. 0-27-02, 7-15-2002)
6B-6-13: VALIDITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of these curb cut
regulations is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of these curb cut regulations.
(Ord. 0-27-02, 7-15-2002)
6B-6-14: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Anyone violating any of the provisions of these curb cut regulations shall
forfeit, upon conviction, to the city not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) or
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation, plus the
costs of the action, and each day that such violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense. (Ord. 0-27-02, 7-15-2002)
CHAPTER 7
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
SECTION:
6B-7-1: Purpose And Scope
6B-7-2: Definitions
6B-7-3: Regulation Of Small Wireless Facilities
6B-7-4: Permit Required; Applications And Fees
6B-7-5: Completeness Of Application/Tolling Of Time
6B-7-6: Action On Permit Applications
6B-7-7: Effect Of Permit
6B-7-8: Permit Suspension And Revocation
6B-7-9: Pole Attachment Agreement
6B-7-10: Collocation Requirements And Conditions
6B-7-11: Collocation Completion Deadline
6B-7-12: Aerial Facilities
6B-7-13: Annual Recurring Rate/Rental Fee
6B-7-14: Construction; Maintenance; Safety; Inspection And Restoration
6B-7-15: Insurance
6B-7-16: Indemnification
6B-7-17: Security
6B-7-18: Change Of Ownership Or Owner's Identity Or Legal Status
6B-7-19: Removal, Relocation Or Abandonment
6B-7-20: Exceptions To Applicability Of This Chapter
6B-7-21: Penalties
6B-7-22: Enforcement
6B-7-23: Dispute Resolution
6B-7-24: Severability
6B-7-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the City's jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the City as commercial or industrial zoning
districts, in a manner not inconsistent with the Small Wireless Facilities
Deployment Act (Public Act 100-0585).
   (B)   Intent:
      1.   Except as specifically provided in this chapter, this chapter does
not limit the applicability of the provisions of chapter 5, "Construction Of
Utility Facilities In The Public Rights-Of-Way", of this title to the location
and installation of small wireless facilities within the City. If the
provisions of this chapter and the provisions of chapter 5 of this title, are
in conflict, this chapter applies and controls.
      2.   In the event that applicable Federal or State laws or regulations
conflict with the requirements of this chapter, the wireless provider shall
comply with the requirements of this chapter to the maximum extent possible
without violating Federal or State laws or regulations. (Ord. 0-14-18, 7-16-
2018)
6B-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter and unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the
words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act (Public Act 100-0585),
unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
ANTENNA: Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
APPLICABLE CODES: Building, Fire, Electrical, Plumbing, or Mechanical Codes
adopted by a recognized national code organization or City amendments to those
codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
APPLICANT: Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
APPLICATION: A request submitted by an applicant to the City for a permit to
collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
COLLOCATE OR COLLOCATION: To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: A cable service, as defined in 47 USC 522(6), as
amended; information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 USC 153(43), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER: A cable operator, as defined in 47 USC 522(5),
as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as
amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 USC 153(51), as
amended; or a wireless provider.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
FEE: A one-time charge.
HISTORIC DISTRICT OR HISTORIC LANDMARK: A building, property, or site, or group
of buildings, properties, or sites that are either: a) listed in the National
Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for listing by the
Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been delegated the
authority by the Federal agency to list properties and determine their
eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with section VI.D.1.a.i
through section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement codified at
47 CFR part 1, appendix C; or b) designated as a locally landmarked building,
property, site, or historic district by an ordinance adopted by the City
Council pursuant to a preservation program that meets the requirements of the
Certified Local Government Program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation
Office or where such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois
State Historic Preservation Office is pending.
LAW: A Federal or State Statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order or
City ordinance or resolution.
MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY: A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than twenty four inches (24") in length, fifteen inches (15") in
width, and twelve inches (12") in height and that has an exterior antenna, if
any, no longer than eleven inches (11").
MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE: A utility pole owned or operated by the City in a
public right-of-way.
PERMIT: A written authorization required by the City to perform an action or
initiate, continue, or complete a project.
PERSON: An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY: The functional division of the Federal government, the
State, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this State, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
RATE: A recurring charge.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: An area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway, street,
public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible use.
Right-of-way does not include City- owned aerial lines.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: A wireless facility that meets both of the following
qualifications: a) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than
six (6) cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed
elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an
imaginary enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic feet; and b) all other
wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the
facility is cumulatively no more than twenty five (25) cubic feet in volume.
The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services.
STEALTH DESIGN: A method of camouflaging any tower, antenna, wireless
facilities, or other ancillary supporting communications facility, including,
but not limited to, supporting electrical, optical, or mechanical, or other
equipment, which enhances compatibility with adjacent land uses and which is
visually and aurally unobtrusive. Stealth design may include a repurposed
structure.
UTILITY POLE: A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part by a
communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting, traffic
control, or a similar function.
WIRELESS FACILITY: Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
a) equipment associated with wireless communications, and b) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
"Wireless facility" includes small wireless facilities. "Wireless facility"
does not include: a) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which
the equipment is collocated; or b) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or
fiber optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles
or coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to
or directly associated with an antenna.
WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the State that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the City.
WIRELESS PROVIDER: A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
WIRELESS SERVICES: Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER: A person who provides wireless services.
WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. Wireless support structure does not include a utility pole. (Ord.
0-14-18, 7-16-2018)
6B-7-3: REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES:
Small wireless facilities shall be classified as permitted uses and shall not
be subject to zoning review or approval if they are collocated in rights-of-way
in any zoning district and outside of rights-of-way in commercial and
industrial zoning districts. Applications for permits to collocate small
wireless facilities on said property shall be subject to administrative review
as set forth in this chapter and, if applicable, approval of any request for
height exceptions or other variances. Requests for approval of small wireless
facilities to be located in all other zoning districts and not in rights-of-way
shall be subject to zoning review and approval as set forth in the Darien
zoning ordinance. (Ord. 0-14-18, 7-16-2018)
6B-7-4: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES:
   (A)   Permit Required: No small wireless facility shall collocate on a
utility pole or similar structure or other wireless support structure without
first filing an application with the Director of Public Works and obtaining one
or more permits from the City therefor, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter.
   (B)   Permit Application: All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the City and shall be filed with
the Director of Public Works in such number of duplicate copies as the City may
designate. Duplicate copies shall be submitted to the City Engineer. Applicants
shall submit applications, the supporting information, and notices to the City
to the Director of Public Works by personal delivery, by regular mail
postmarked on the date due or by any other commonly used means, i.e., overnight
mail, or by e-mail.
   (C)   Minimum General Application Requirements: A wireless provider shall
provide the following information to the City, together with the City's permit
application, as a condition of any permit application to collocate small
wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support structure:
      1.   Site specific structural integrity and, for a Municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
      2.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or utility
pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its immediate
surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each proposed
small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility poles or
structures would be installed, and a depiction of the completed facility;
      3.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer, as
that term is defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
      4.   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all other
wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
      5.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved;
      6.   Certification that the collocation complies with all of the
collocation requirements and conditions set forth in section
6B-7-10 of this chapter, to the best of the applicant's knowledge;
      7.   In the event the proposed small wireless facility is to be attached
to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the City, the wireless
provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of the owner
of such pole to the proposed collocation; and
      8.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
City, but in no event shall the applicant be required to provide more
information to obtain a permit than the City requires a communications service
provider that is not a wireless provider that requests to attach facilities to
a structure.
   (D)   Consolidated Applications: An applicant seeking to collocate small
wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the City, shall be allowed, at
the applicant's discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a
single permit for the collocation of up to twenty five (25) small wireless
facilities if the collocations each involve substantially the same type of
small wireless facility and substantially the same type of structure. If the
consolidated application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the City
has the right to remove small wireless facility collocations from the
application and treat separately small wireless facility collocations for which
incomplete information has been provided or that do not qualify for
consolidated treatment or that are denied. The City may issue separate permits
for each collocation that is approved in a consolidated application.
   (E)   Applicant's Duty To Update Information: Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments and/or revisions to information contained in the permit
application shall be submitted by the applicant in writing to the Director of
Public Works within thirty (30) days after the change necessitating the
amendment and/or revision.
   (F)   Application Fees: All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be accompanied by the following non-refundable applicable fees:
      1.   Six hundred fifty dollars ($650.00) for an application to collocate
a single small wireless facility on an existing utility pole or wireless
support structure;
      2.   Three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) for each small wireless
facility addressed in a consolidated application to collocate more than one
small wireless facility on existing utility poles or wireless support
facilities, as provided in subsection (D) of this section; or
      3.   One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each small wireless facility
addressed in an application that includes the installation of a new utility
pole or wireless support structure for such collocation.
   (G)   Exceptions To Application; Approval Of Permit: The City shall not
require an application, approval or permit or any fees or other charges from a
communications service provider authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
      1.   Routine maintenance;
      2.   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities that
are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless provider
notifies the City at least ten (10) days prior to the planned replacement and
includes equipment specifications for the replacement of equipment consistent
with the requirements of subsection (C) of this section; or
      3.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or replacement
of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung between
existing utility poles in compliance with applicable Safety Codes.
      4.   Notwithstanding subsections (G)1, (G)2 and (G)3 of this section,
wireless providers shall secure a permit to work within rights-of-way for
activities that affect traffic patterns or require lane closures as provided in
chapter 5, "Construction Of Utility Facilities In The Public Rights-Of-Way", of
this title.
   (H)   Duration Of Permit: The duration of a permit shall be for a period of
not less than five (5) years. The permit shall be renewed for a period of
equivalent durations unless the City makes a finding that the small wireless
facilities or the new or modified utility pole do not comply with the
applicable City codes or any provision, condition or requirement contained in
this chapter. If the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act is repealed as
provided in the Act, renewal of permits shall be subject to the applicable City
Code provisions or regulations in effect at the time of renewal of the permit.
(Ord. 0-14-18, 7-16-2018)
6B-7-5: COMPLETENESS OF APPLICATION/TOLLING OF TIME:
   (A)   Completeness Of Application: Within thirty (30) days of receiving an
application, the City shall determine whether the application is complete and
notify the applicant of the status of the application. If the application is
incomplete, the City shall specifically identify the missing information. An
application shall be deemed complete if the City fails to notify the applicant
within thirty (30) days after all documents, information and the applicable
fees specifically enumerated in the Permit Application Form are submitted to
the Director of Public Works by the applicant.
   (B)   Tolling Of Time: The processing deadlines set forth in subsection
6B-7-6(B) of this chapter shall be tolled for the following reasons:
      1.   The application is incomplete and the City sends notice of such
incompleteness to the application within thirty (30) days after the receipt of
the application. The time for processing the application is tolled until the
applicant provides the missing information.
      2.   An express agreement in writing by both the applicant and the City
to toll the time period for the application.
      3.   A local, State or Federal disaster declaration or similar emergency
that cause the delay. (Ord. 0-14-18, 7-16-2018)
6B-7-6: ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   (A)   City Review Of Permit Applications: Completed permit applications,
containing all of the required documentation, shall be reviewed by the City
Engineer and the Director of Public Works.
   (B)   Application Process: The City shall process applications as follows:
      1.   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
      2.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an existing
utility pole or wireless facility shall be processed within ninety (90) days
after the submission of a completed application. If the City does not approve
or deny the completed application within said ninety (90) days, the application
shall be deemed approved.
         (a)   If the applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity
on a deemed approved basis, the applicant must notify the City, in writing, its
intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than seventy five (75)
days after the submission of a completed application.
         (b)   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 90th
day after submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the
receipt by the City of the deemed approved notice by the City.
         (c)   The receipt of the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the
City's denial of the permit request within the time limits as provided under
this chapter.
      3.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that includes
the installation of a new utility pole or wireless support structure or a
replacement of a utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed
within one hundred twenty (120) days after the submission of a completed
application. If the City does not approve or deny the completed application
within said one hundred twenty (120) days, the application shall be deemed
approved.
         (a)   If the applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity
on a deemed approved basis, the applicant must notify the City, in writing, its
intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than one hundred five
(105) days after the submission of a completed application.
         (b)   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 120th
day after submission of the completed application or the 10th day after the
receipt by the City of the deemed approved notice by the City.
         (c)   The receipt of the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the
City's denial of the permit request within the time limits as provided under
this chapter.
   (C)   Approval/Denial Of Permit: The City shall deny any permit application
which does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
      1.   If the City makes the determination that applicable codes,
ordinances or regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation
requirements and conditions set forth in section
6B-7-10 of this chapter, require that the existing utility pole or wireless
support structure must be replaced before the requested collocation is
permitted, the approval shall be conditioned on the replacement of the utility
pole or wireless support structure at the applicant's expense. The replacement
of the utility pole or wireless support structure shall be subject to the
provisions set forth in chapter 5, "Construction Of Utility Facilities In The
Public Rights-Of-Way", of this title.
      2.   The City shall document the basis for denial of the permit,
including the specific code provisions or application conditions on which the
denial is based. The documentation shall be sent to the applicant on or before
the day the City denies the permit application.
      3.   The applicant may submit a revised application once within thirty
(30) days after notice of denial is sent to the applicant without paying an
additional application fee. The revised application shall cure the deficiencies
identified by the City in its written denial of the original application. The
City shall approve or deny the revised application within thirty (30) days of
receipt of the applicant's revised application or it is deemed approved.
Failure to resubmit the revised application within thirty (30) days of denial
of the application, shall trigger the requirement that the applicant submit a
new application with the applicable fees and the recommencement of the City's
applicable review period.
         (a)   If the applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity
on a deemed approved basis, the applicant must notify the City, in writing, its
intention to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis.
This notice may be submitted with the revised application.
         (b)   Any review of the revised application by the City shall be
limited to the deficiencies cited by the City in its denial of the original
application.
         (c)   The revised application procedure shall not apply if the cure
for the deficiencies set forth in the denial requires the review of a new
location, new or different structure to be collocated upon, new antennas, or
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility. (Ord. 0-
14-18, 7-16-2018)
6B-7-7: EFFECT OF PERMIT:
   (A)   Authority Granted; No Property Right Or Other Interest Created: A
permit from the City authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter and does not create a property right
or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon the rights of others who
may have an interest in the public rights-of-way.
   (B)   Compliance With All Laws Required: The issuance of a permit by the
City does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the City and all applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
   (C)   Limitations: The approval of the installation, placement, maintenance,
or operation of a small wireless facility pursuant to this chapter does not
authorize the installation, placement, maintenance, or operation of any
communications facilities other than small wireless facilities in the right-of-
way. (Ord. 0-14-18, 7-16-2018)
6B-7-8: PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
   (A)   City Right To Revoke Permit: The City may revoke or suspend a permit
issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following reasons.
      1.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      2.   Non-compliance with this chapter;
      3.   The wireless provider's placement or maintenance of a small wireless
facility in the public rights-of-way presents a direct or imminent threat to
the general public or other users of the public rights-of-way and the wireless
provider fails to remedy the danger promptly after receipt of written notice
from the City;
      4.   The wireless provider's failure to construct the facilities
substantially in accordance with the permit and approved plans;
      5.   A Federal or State authority suspends, denies, or revokes a wireless
provider's certification or license to provide communication services; or
      6.   The wireless provider ceases to use its small wireless facilities in
public rights-of-way and has not complied with subsection
6B-7-19(C) of this chapter.
   (B)   Notice Of Revocation Or Suspension: The City shall send written notice
of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this chapter
stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   (C)   Permittee Alternatives Upon Receipt Of Notice Of Revocation Or
Suspension: Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the City, the permittee shall have the following options:
      1.   Immediately provide the City with evidence that no cause exists for
the revocation or suspension;
      2.   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the City, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the City within five (5) working days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation; or
      3.   Immediately remove the small wireless facilities located on, over,
above, along, upon, under, across, or within the public rights-of-way and
restore the rights-of-way to the satisfaction of the City providing written
proof of such removal to the City within ten (10) days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation.
The City may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the time periods
provided in this subsection.
   (D)   City Correction And Notice: If the deficiency creates an imminent
threat to life, health, or safety, the City may correct the deficiency
immediately upon verbal notice by the City to permittee.
   (E)   Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the City may issue a stop work order immediately upon discovery
of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within subsection (A) of this
section.
   (F)   Failure Or Refusal Of The Permittee To Comply: If the permittee fails
to comply with the provision of subsection (C) of this section, the City or its
designee may, at the option of the City: 1) correct the deficiencies; 2) upon
not less than twenty (20) days' notice to the permittee, remove the subject
facilities or equipment; or 3) after not less than thirty (30) days' notice to
the permittee of failure to cure the non-compliance, deem them abandoned and
property of the City. The permittee shall be liable in all events to the City
for all costs of removal. (Ord. 0-14-18, 7-16-2018)
6B-7-9: POLE ATTACHMENT AGREEMENT:
Within thirty (30) days after the permit application is approved to collocate a
small wireless facility on a Municipal utility pole, the City and applicant
shall enter into a Master Pole Attachment Agreement for the initial collocation
on the Municipal pole. The City shall be responsible for providing said
agreement. The City and the applicant shall enter into supplements to the
Master Pole Attachment Agreement for subsequent approved permits to collocate
additional small wireless facilities on the Municipal utility poles not
included in the Master Pole Attachment Agreement.
   (A)   Pre-Existing Agreements: Existing agreements between the City and
wireless providers that relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities
in a right-of-way, including the collocation of small wireless facilities on
City utility poles, that are in effect on June 1, 2018, shall remain in effect
for all small wireless facilities collocated on the City's utility poles
pursuant to applications submitted to the City before June 1, 2018, subject to
applicable termination provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into on
or after June 1, 2018 shall comply with this chapter.
      1.   A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the City on
June 1, 2018 may accept the rates, fees and terms set forth in this chapter for
the collocation of small wireless facilities or the installation of new utility
poles for the collocation of small wireless facilities that are the subject of
an application submitted two (2) or more years after June 1, 2018 by notifying
the City that it opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing
agreement shall remain in effect, subject to applicable termination provisions,
for the small wireless facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the
City's utility poles pursuant to applications submitted to the City before the
wireless provider provides such notice and exercises its option under this
subsection. (Ord. 0-14-18, 7-16-2018)
6B-7-10: COLLOCATION REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:
   (A)   Public Safety Conditions:
      1.   Reservation Of Space: The City has the right to reserve space on
Municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the City's electric
utility uses, or both. The reservation of such space shall not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the City reasonably determines
that the City utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
      2.   Interference With Public Safety Communication Frequencies:
         (a)   The wireless provider's operation of the small wireless
facilities shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety
agency for public safety communications.
         (b)   The wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of
the type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a
public safety agency's communications equipment.
         (c)   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC's regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
         (d)   If a small wireless facility causes interference as set forth in
subsection (A)2(c) of this section, and the wireless provider has been given
written notice of the interference by the public safety agency, the wireless
provider, at its own expense, shall take all reasonable steps necessary to
correct and eliminate the interference, including but not limited to, powering
down the small wireless facility and later powering up the small wireless
facility for intermittent testing, if necessary. The wireless provider shall
remedy the problem in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC,
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973, and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675.
         (e)   The City has the right to terminate the permit for a small
wireless facility based on such interference if the wireless provider is not in
compliance with the sections of the Code of Federal Regulations set forth in
subsection (A)2(d) of this section. Failure to remedy the interference as
required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
   (B)   Public Safety Concerns: The wireless provider shall comply with all
applicable Federal, State and local codes, code provisions, and regulations
concerning public safety. The proposed collocation cannot materially interfere
with the following:
      1.   The safe operation of traffic control equipment;
      2.   Sight lines or clear zones for transportation, pedestrians, or
public safety purposes; and
      3.   Compliance with the Americans With Disabilities Act, or similar
Federal or State standards and regulations regarding pedestrian access or
movement.
Additionally, for the safety of electrical utility workers and members of the
public, the small wireless facility shall comply with the following:
      1.   Small wireless facilities collocated on the same City pole as a
street light shall be on the same disconnect as the street light;
      2.   Small wireless facilities shall be grounded and otherwise fully
comply with all applicable Electrical Codes;
      3.   Whenever conduit of small wireless facilities crosses telephone or
electric power wires, wires shall be crossed and be maintained in accordance
with the National Electric Code, the National Electric Safety Code and the
"Safety Rules for the Installation and Maintenance of Electrical Supply and
Communication Lines" established by the Department of Commerce, Bureau of
Standards of the United States in force at the time of the effective date of
this chapter, and as amended from time to time.
   (C)   Third-Party Contracts: The wireless provider shall comply with
requirements that are imposed in a contract between the City and a private
property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable to
utility poles and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
   (D)   Non-Interference With Electric Distribution/Transmission System:
      1.   The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless facilities
on City utility poles that are part of an electric distribution or transmission
system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole or the electric
supply zone of the pole.
      2.   Notwithstanding the above, the antenna and support equipment of the
small wireless facility may be located in the communications space on the City
utility pole and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the
wireless provider complies with applicable codes for work involving top of the
pole.
For purposes of this subsection, the terms "communications space",
"communication worker safety zone", and "electric supply zone" have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code, published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
   (E)   Compliance With Applicable Codes And Regulations:
      1.   Design Standards: The wireless provider shall comply with the City's
written design standards applicable for decorative utility poles, stealth
structures, concealment and aesthetic requirements set forth in a City
ordinance, written policy, comprehensive plan or other written design that
applies to other occupiers of the rights-of-way, including on a historic
landmark or in a historic district.
      2.   Signage: The wireless provider shall comply with any applicable
provisions of title 4, chapter 3, "Sign Code", of this Code.
      3.   Ground-Mounted Equipment Spacing: The wireless provider shall comply
with applicable spacing requirements set forth in chapter 5, "Construction Of
Utility Facilities In The Public Rights-Of- Way", of this title. Any request by
the wireless provider for a variance from the applicable spacing requirements
shall be subject to the procedures set forth in section
6B-5-21, "Variances", of this title.
      4.   Underground Regulations: The wireless provider shall comply with the
provisions set forth in chapter 5 of this title, regulating undergrounding
requirements that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of
existing utility poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the
requirements include a variance. Any request by a wireless provider for a
variance to install such new utility poles or modify existing utility poles
shall be subject to the procedures set forth in section
6B-5-21, "Variances", of this title.
      5.   The wireless provider shall comply with sign regulations applicable
to public rights-of-way.
   (F)   Alternate Placements:
      1.   Existing Utility Poles: Except as provided in this chapter, a
wireless provider shall not be required to collocate small wireless facilities
on an existing specific utility pole or category of existing utility poles or
be required to collocate multiple antenna systems on a single existing pole.
      2.   New Utility Poles: For an application for the collocation of a small
wireless facility on a new utility pole, the City may propose that the small
wireless facility be collocated on an existing utility pole or existing
wireless support structure within one hundred feet (100') of the proposed
collocation. The applicant shall be required to accept the City's proposal if
the applicant has the right to use the alternate structure on reasonable terms
and conditions and the alternate location and structure does not impose
technical limits or additional material costs as determined by the applicant.
         (a)   If the applicant refuses a collocation as proposed by the City,
the applicant shall be required to provide a written certification describing
the property rights, technical limits or material cost reasons the alternate
location does not satisfy the criteria set forth in this subsection.
   (G)   Height Limitations: The maximum height of a small wireless facility
shall be no more than ten feet (10') above the utility pole or wireless support
structure on which the small wireless facility is collocated.
      1.   New Or Replacement Utility Poles Or Wireless Support Structures: The
height for new or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on
which small wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
         (a)   Ten feet (10') in height above the tallest existing utility
pole, other than a utility pole that only supports wireless facilities that
exists within the right-of-way on the date the applicant is submitted to the
City, and is located within three hundred feet (300') of the new or replacement
utility pole or wireless support structure and is in the same right-of-way
within the jurisdictional boundary of the City; provided, however, the City may
designate which intersecting right-of-way within the three hundred feet (300')
of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structures shall control the
height limitation for such facility; or
         (b)   Forty five feet (45') above ground level.
      2.   Height Exceptions/Variances: If an applicant proposes a height for a
new or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure in excess of the
height limitations set forth above, the applicant may request a variance for
the height limitation pursuant to the procedures, terms and conditions set
forth in section
6B-5-21 of this title. (Ord. 0-14-18, 7-16-2018)
6B-7-11: COLLOCATION COMPLETION DEADLINE:
Collocation for which a permit is granted shall be completed within one hundred
eighty (180) days after the issuance of the permit by the City unless the City
and the wireless provider agree to extend this time period, there is a delay
caused by make-ready work for a City utility pole, or there is a lack of
commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided the wireless
provider has made a timely request within sixty (60) days after the issuance of
the permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the additional time
to complete the installation does not exceed three hundred sixty (360) days
after the issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the permit shall be declared void
unless the City grants an extension in writing to the wireless provider. (Ord.
0-14-18, 7-16-2018)
6B-7-12: AERIAL FACILITIES:
   (A)   A wireless provider shall comply with the process for make- ready work
under 47 USC 224, and its implementing regulations for collocation on City
utility poles that support aerial facilities used to provide communications
services or electric services.
      1.   The City shall follow a substantially similar process for make-ready
work, except to the extent that the timing requirements are otherwise set forth
in this chapter.
      2.   The good-faith estimate of the person owning or controlling the City
utility pole for any make-ready work necessary to enable the pole to support
the requested collocation shall include City utility pole replacement, if
necessary.
   (B)   If a utility pole does not support aerial facilities used to provide
communication services or electric service, the City shall provide a good-faith
estimate for any make-ready work necessary to enable the City utility pole to
support the requested collocation, including pole replacement, if necessary,
within ninety (90) days after the receipt of a complete application.
      1.   Make-ready work, including any City utility pole replacement, shall
be completed within sixty (60) days of written acceptance of the good-faith
estimate by the applicant at the wireless provider's sole cost and expense.
      2.   If the City determines that applicable codes or public safety
regulations require the City utility pole to be replaced to support the
requested collocation, the City shall require the wireless provider to replace
the City utility pole at the wireless provider's sole cost and expense.
   (C)   The make-ready work shall meet all of the applicable codes and/or
industry standards. Make-ready work shall include all work needed to
accommodate additional public safety communications needs that are identified
in subsection
6B-7-10(A) of this chapter and included in an existing or preliminary City or
public service agency budget for attachment within one year of the submitted
application.
      1.   Fees for make-ready work, including any City utility pole
replacement, shall not exceed actual costs or the amount charged to
communication service providers for similar work. Said fees shall not include
any consultant's fees or expenses for the City utility poles that do not
support aerial facilities used to provide communications services or electric
service.
      2.   Make-ready work, including any pole replacement, shall be completed
within sixty (60) days of written acceptance of the good-faith estimate by the
wireless provider, at its sole cost and expense. (Ord. 0-14-18, 7-16-2018)
6B-7-13: ANNUAL RECURRING RATE/RENTAL FEE:
The wireless provider shall pay to the City an annual recurring rate to
collocate a small wireless facility on a City utility pole located in a right-
of-way that equals: a) two hundred dollars ($200.00) per year; or b) the
actual, direct and reasonable costs related to the wireless provider's use of
space on the City utility pole, if the actual, direct and reasonable costs are
greater than two hundred dollars ($200.00). The City shall have the burden of
proving the actual, direct and reasonable costs.
If the City has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct costs, the
fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) shall be payable on the first annual
anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to collocate, and
on each annual anniversary date thereafter. (Ord. 0-14-18, 7-16-2018)
6B-7-14: CONSTRUCTION; MAINTENANCE; SAFETY; INSPECTION AND RESTORATION:
   (A)   The wireless provider shall install, maintain, repair and modify its
small wireless facilities in safe condition and good repair and in compliance
with the requirements and conditions of this chapter and chapter 5 of this
title. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents and
contractors that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
Specifically, the wireless provider shall comply with the following
requirements and conditions:
      1.   The wireless provider shall maintain its small wireless facilities
in a manner consistent with accepted industry practice and applicable law.
      2.   All safety practices required by applicable law or accepted industry
practices and standards shall be used during the construction, installation, or
maintenance of small wireless facilities.
      3.   After the completion of any placement or maintenance of a small
wireless facility in a public right-of-way, the wireless provider shall, at its
own expense, restore the public right-of- way to its original condition before
such work. If the wireless provider within ten (10) days, or such longer period
of time as may be agreed to between the City and the wireless provider in
writing, following completion of such placement or maintenance, the City may
perform restoration and charge the costs of the restoration against the
wireless provider.
      4.   The wireless provider shall use and exercise due caution, care and
skill in performing work in the public right-of-way and shall take all
necessary and reasonable steps to safeguard work site areas. The persons
constructing, installing and maintaining small wireless facilities must be a
licensed electrician, certified to work as a line worker, or successfully
complete an accredited line worker apprenticeship program.
      5.   A wireless provider shall not place or maintain its small wireless
facilities so as to interfere with, displace, damage or destroy any utilities,
including, but not limited to, sewers, gas or water mains, storm drains, pipes,
cables or conduits of the City or any other person's facilities lawfully
occupying the City's public rights-of-way.
      6.   The City shall have the right to make such inspections of small
wireless facilities placed or maintained in public rights- of-way as it finds
necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 0-14-18, 7-16-2018)
6B-7-15: INSURANCE:
   (A)   Recovered Coverages And Limits: Except for a wireless provider with an
existing franchise to occupy and operate the rights-of-way, during the period
in which the wireless provider's facilities are located within the City's
improvements or rights- of-way, the wireless provider, at its own cost and
expense, shall carry the following insurance:
      1.   Property insurance for its property's replacement cost against all
risks;
      2.   Worker's compensation insurance with the statutory limits;
      3.   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on the City's improvements or rights-of-way, with limits not less
than:
         (a)   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death
to each person;
         (b)   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
         (c)   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability;
      4.   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal
injury and property damage for each accident; and
      5.   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee and per accident.
If the wireless provider is not providing such insurance to protect the
contractors and subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and
subcontractors shall comply with this section.
   (B)   Copies Required: The wireless provider shall include the City as an
additional insured on the commercial general liability policy and provide
certification and documentation of inclusion of the City in a commercial
general liability policy prior to the collocation of any small wireless
facility.
   (C)   Maintenance And Renewal Of Required Coverages: The insurance policies
required by this section shall contain the following endorsement:
      It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled
nor the intention not to renew be stated until ten (10) days after receipt by
the City, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of a
written notice addressed to the City's Director of Public Works of such intent
to cancel or not to renew.
   Within seven (7) days after receipt by the City of said notice, and in no
event later than three (3) days prior to said cancellation, the wireless
provider shall obtain and furnish to the City evidence of replacement insurance
policies meeting the requirements of this section.
   (D)   Self-Insurance: The wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion
of the insurance coverage and limit requirements required by subsection (A) of
this section. A wireless provider that self-insures is not required, to the
extent of the self- insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of
additional insureds under this section. A wireless provider that elects to
self-insure shall provide to the City evidence sufficient to demonstrate its
financial ability to self-insure the insurance coverage and limits required by
the City.
   (E)   Effect Of Insurance And Self-Insurance On Wireless Provider's
Liability: The legal liability of the wireless provider to the City and any
person for any of the matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or
self-insurance required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance
policies or self- insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder. (Ord.
0-14-18, 7-16-2018)
6B-7-16: INDEMNIFICATION:
A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the City, and its elected and
appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless against any and all liability or loss from personal injury or property
damage resulting from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or
occupancy of the City improvements or rights-of-way associated with such
improvements by the wireless provider or its employees, agents or contractors
arising out of the rights and privileges granted under this chapter or the
Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act. The wireless provider's indemnity
obligations hereunder shall not apply against any liabilities and losses as may
be due to or caused by the sole negligence of the City, its employees or
agents. The wireless provider shall further waive any claims that it may have
against the City with respect to consequential, incidental, or special damages,
however caused, based on the theory of liability. (Ord. 0-14-18, 7-16-2018)
6B-7-17: SECURITY:
The wireless provider shall comply with the security provisions set forth in
section
6B-5-10, "Security " of this title. (Ord. 0-14-18, 7-16-2018)
6B-7-18: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER'S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS:
   (A)   Notification Of Change: A wireless provider shall notify the City not
less than thirty (30) days prior to the transfer of ownership of any small
wireless facility in the right-of-way or change in identity of the wireless
provider. The new owner of the wireless provider or the small wireless facility
shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the former owner under
the permit, if any, and all applicable laws, ordinances, rules and regulations,
including this chapter with respect to the work and facilities in the right-of-
way.
   (B)   Amended Permit: A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by the terms and conditions of the permit and
any applicable agreement between the City and the prior owner if the new owner
uses the small wireless facility or allows it to remain on the City's right-of-
way.
   (C)   Insurance And Bonding: All required insurance, coverage or bonding
must be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer. (Ord. 0-14-
18, 7-16-2018)
6B-7-19: REMOVAL, RELOCATION OR ABANDONMENT:
   (A)   Removal By City: Under this chapter, the City is not required to
install or maintain any specific utility pole or to continue to install or
maintain any specific utility pole in any location if the City determines to
eliminate above-ground utility poles of a particular type generally, such as
electric utility poles, in all or a significant portion of its geographic
jurisdiction.
If the City determines to eliminate above-ground City utility poles of a
particular type generally, and collocated small wireless facilities are in
place, the City shall either: 1) continue to maintain the utility pole or
install and maintain a reasonable alternative utility pole or wireless support
structure for the collocation of the small wireless facility; or 2) offer to
sell the utility pole to the wireless provider at a reasonable cost or allow
the wireless provider to install its own utility pole so it can maintain
service from that location.
   (B)   Emergency Removal Or Relocation: The City retains the right and
privilege to cut or move any small wireless facilities within the rights-of-way
of the City, as the City may determine to be necessary, appropriate or useful
in response to any public health or safety emergency. If the circumstances
permit, the City shall attempt to notify the wireless provider prior to cutting
or removing the facility and shall notify the wireless provider after cutting
or removing the facility.
   (C)   Abandonment: A small wireless facility that is not operated for a
continuous period of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned. The
owner of the facility must remove the small wireless facility within ninety
(90) days after the date of the written notice from the City notifying the
wireless provider of the abandonment. The notice shall be sent by certified or
registered mail, return receipt requested, by the City to the owner at the last
known address of the owner. If the small wireless facility is not removed
within ninety (90) days of such notice, the City has the right to remove or
cause the removal of the facility pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment
agreement for City utility poles or through whatever actions are provided for
abatement of nuisances or by other law for removal and cost recovery. The City
shall charge the cost of the removal against the wireless provider or any
successor in interest to the wireless provider. (Ord. 0-14-18, 7-16-2018)
6B-7-20: EXCEPTIONS TO APPLICABILITY OF THIS CHAPTER:
Nothing in this chapter authorizes a person to collocate small wireless
facilities on:
   (A)   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled by
the City or another unit of local government that is not located within public
rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
   (B)   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation, or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
   (C)   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under section 18c-7201 of
the Illinois Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter
rail service, or an electric utility as defined in section 16-102 of the Public
Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail
service, or electric utility. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to an
electric or gas public utility or such utility's wireless facilities if the
facilities are being used, developed and maintained consistent with the
provisions of subsection (i) of section 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act.
For the purposes of this subsection, "public utility" has the meaning given to
that term in section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to relieve a person from any requirement: 1) to obtain a
franchise or a State-issued authorization to offer cable service or video
service; or 2) to obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain,
or operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities
subject to this chapter. (Ord. 0-14-18, 7-16-2018)
6B-7-21: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to fine in accordance
with the penalty provisions of this Code. (Ord. 0-14-18, 7-16-2018)
6B-7-22: ENFORCEMENT:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the City may have for enforcement of this chapter. (Ord.
0-14-18, 7-16-2018)
6B-7-23: DISPUTE RESOLUTION:
The Circuit Court of DuPage County, Illinois shall have exclusive jurisdiction
to resolve all disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment
Act. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for collocation of small
wireless facilities on City utility poles within the right-of-way, the City
shall allow the collocating wireless provider to collocate on its poles at
annual rates of no more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) per year per City
utility pole, with rates to be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 0-14-18, 7-16-2018)
6B-7-24: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter
is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions hereof. (Ord. 0-14-18, 7-16-2018)
CHAPTER 8
TREE PROTECTION ORDINANCE
SECTION:
6B-8-1: Title
6B-8-2: Purpose And Intent
6B-8-3: Applicability
6B-8-4: Exemptions
6B-8-5: Definitions
6B-8-6: Tree Planting Standards; Tree Care And Removal
6B-8-7: Administration And Enforcement
6B-8-8: Penalties
6B-8-9: Appeals
6B-8-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the “TREE PROTECTION ORDINANCE.” (Ord. O-26-25,
6-2-2025)
6B-8-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this Chapter is to preserve, protect, replace and properly
maintain trees planted on publicly-owned property or rights-of-way, and protect
the public from trees which pose a threat or danger because:
(A)   Trees are an important public resource.
(B)   Trees preserve and enhance the City’s physical and aesthetic environment,
especially its natural and unique atmosphere;
(C)   Trees enhance the air quality by absorbing carbon dioxide, filtering out
air pollutants, and providing oxygen;
(D)   Trees reduce topsoil erosion by the holding effect of their roots;
(E)   Trees reduce stormwater runoff and replenish groundwater supplies;
(F)   Trees provide a buffer and screen against noise pollution;
(G)   Trees reduce energy consumption by acting as a windbreak and producing
shade;
(H)   Trees preserve and enhance nesting areas for birds and other wildlife
which, in turn, assist in the control of insects;
(I)   Trees protect and enhance property values;
(J)   Trees protect and enhance the quality of life and the general welfare of
the City. (Ord. O-26-25, 6-2-2025)
6B-8-3: APPLICABILITY:
All trees planted on publicly-owned property or rights-of-way are subject to
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. O-26-25, 6-2-2025)
6B-8-4: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any person doing business as
a public utility, and/or any duly constituted public agency authorized to
provide and providing utilities service that is trimming, bracing, removing or
performing other such acts with respect to trees which grow on publicly-owned
property or rights-of-way as may be necessary to comply with safety regulations
applicable to public utilities.(Ord. O-26-25, 6-2-2025)
6B-8-5: DEFINITIONS:
ANSI:                         American National Standards Institute.
                              An individual trained and experienced in the
ARBORIST:                     profession of forestry or other similarly degreed
                              and/or licensed tree professional.
                              A tree mostly needle-leaved or scale-leaved,
CONIFEROUS TREE:              typically evergreen and/or cone-bearing such as
                              pines, spruces, and firs.
CALIPER INCH(ES):             Units used to describe a tree s diameter as
                              measured by calipers or a diameter tape
                              Any area designated by the City, state agency, or
CONSERVANCY AREA:             by City approved subdivision or restriction, to
                              be kept in a particular natural state or for
                              special environmental preservation or control.
                              A deciduous tree is one that loses most or all of
DECIDUOUS TREE:               its leaves for part of the year. Deciduous trees
                              are also considered to be broad-leaf or hardwood
                              trees.
                              Any proposed change in the use or character of
                              land, including, but not limited to, the
                              replacement of any structure or site
DEVELOPMENT:                  improvements. When appropriate to the context,
                              development may refer to any conduct which
                              requires the receipt of a building, or site work
                              permit.
                              The diameter of the trunk of the tree measured in
                              caliper inches at a point 4.5 feet above the
DIAMETER BREAST HEIGHT (DBH): ground line. This point of measurement is used
                              for established and mature trees and is referred
                              to as DBH. All references to diameter size shall
                              be to the DBH.
EVERGREEN TREE:               A tree that retains most of its leaves for most
                              of the year.
                              A declining tree which, as determined by the
HAZARD:                       City, would cause damage or injury to a target
                              such as a structure or person.
                              Large mature trees requiring special
                              consideration including all trees in the Genus
HERITAGE TREE:                Quercus (oak), Carya (hickory), or Juglans
                              (walnut) species which have a DBH of twenty
                              inches (20") or greater.
                              A tree that has been negatively affected by
IMPACTED TREE:                proximity to development, vehicle or equipment
                              traffic, material storage, excavation, or other
                              damages as determined by the City.
                              Non-native species of tree, shrub, or plant which
INVASIVE:                     reproduce rapidly and threaten to cause economic
                              or environmental harm to native vegetation and/or
                              human health.
                              A single tree made up of three or more main stems
MULTI-STEM TREE:              originating below the height used for measuring
                              DBH.
                              A landscape and preservation plan intended as a
NATURAL AMENITY EXCEPTION:    substitute for the replacement requirements of
                              this Chapter.
                              A tree, shrub, or plant material that is dead,
                              dying, diseased, or otherwise no longer viable
                              and poses a threat to persons, property, or other
NUISANCE:                     viable trees. Also includes invasives and certain
                              species tree, shrub, or plant harboring pests or
                              species undesirable to native landscapes; e.g.
                              Partially fallen trees, Acer negundo (box elder),
                              Maclura pomifera (Osage orange).
OPEN SPACE AREA:              See Open Space in Zoning Definitions (Section 5A-
                              13-1).
                              A lot of record, zoning lot or any grouping of
PARCEL:                       adjacent lots under single ownership, serving a
                              principal structure or use.
REAR YARD:                    See Yard, Rear in Zoning Definitions (Section 5A-
                              13-1).
                              Trees that are desirable for the landscape,
SIGNIFICANT:                  including Appendix A , non- Appendix A , and
                              native species which are greater than 10" DBH,
                              viable and in good form.
SITE:                         That parcel of land for which a permit for
                              landscaping or tree removal is sought.
TRANSPLANTING:                The removal of any tree for replanting elsewhere.
                              Any self-supporting woody plant, together with
                              its root system, growing upon the earth usually
                              with one trunk, or a multi-stemmed trunk system,
TREE:                         supporting a definitely formed crown. For
                              regulatory purposes of this Chapter, the plant
                              commonly referred to as buckthorn shall not be
                              considered a tree.
TREE REMOVAL:                 The cutting down, destruction, removal, or
                              relocation of any tree.
                              A document that identifies, by common name and/or
                              scientific name, certain species of trees of a
                              specified DBH within a particular site. The
                              survey shall list, as required by the City, all
                              existing and proposed trees and shall
                              specifically state whether each tree is proposed
                              to be destroyed, relocated, replaced, preserved
TREE SURVEY:                  at its present location, or introduced into the
                              development from an offsite source. The City may
                              provide that the tree survey exclude those
                              portions of the site that it determines will not
                              be affected by the development activity. Any tree
                              survey required by this Chapter 1 must be dated
                              within thirty-six months of the tree removal
                              permit application.
                              Any swimming pool, gazebo, garage, patio, play
UNATTACHED AMENITY:           apparatus, basketball court, tennis court, tent,
                              or similar structure or installation which is not
                              attached to the principal building on the lot.
                              A tree, which in the judgment of the City is
VIABLE:                       capable of sustaining its own life processes,
                              unaided by man, for a reasonable period of time.
                              (Ord. O-26-25, 6-2-2025)
 
6B-8-6: TREE PLANTING STANDARDS; TREE CARE AND REMOVAL:
(A)   The City Council hereby adopts the most current ANSI A300 and Z60.1
standards for the care, maintenance, pruning and planting of trees.
(B)   The City has the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees on
publicly-owned property or rights-of-way, as may be necessary to preserve or
enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public ways or grounds.
(C)   Any person, contractor, or firm in the occupation or business of
consulting, interacting, or in any way impacting trees on publicly-owned
property or rights-of-way must be or have a certified arborist, or a person
deemed qualified by the Director of Municipal Services, on staff in order to
undertake any activity on trees, including but not limited to pruning,
planting, treating, or removing any tree.
(D)   The Director of Municipal Services or City Arborist may remove or may
remove or cause or order to be removed, any tree or part thereof on City
property to ensure public safety which by reason of its nature is:
   1.   Injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines or
other public improvements, or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect, or
other pest;
   2.   Crippled, deformed, and physically damaged trees shall be removed and
replaced, if in the City Arborist’s opinion recovery and normal development
cannot be expected;
   3.   Infected with an incurable disease that will result in either: i)
deformation, ii) death, or iii) infection of other trees; or
      4.   Determined to present a potential for endangering life or property
because of its condition or location.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, contractor, or firm to plant,
arrange for the planting of, remove, arrange for the removal of, injure, or
destroy a tree on publicly-owned property or rights-of-way without written
authorization and in accordance with the following conditions:
      1.   The tree is diseased, dead or dying;
      2.   The tree is damaged or injured to the extent that it is likely to
die or become diseased, or such that it constitutes a hazard;
      3.   Removal of the tree is consistent with good forestry practices, that
is, consideration is given to the species of tree, location, conditions, age,
safety, historic and aesthetic value of the tree to be removed; or
      4.   Reasonable efforts have been undertaken in the architectural layout
and design of a private improvement or development to minimize tree removal.
   (F)   The City or its contractor have the right to perform emergency tree
services on publicly-owned property and rights-of-way in the event of any
disaster or such occurrence that constitutes an immediate hazard to person,
property, or any safety issues. (Ord. O-26-25, 6-2-2025)
6B-8-7: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
The Director of Municipal Services or his designee shall have the duty to
enforce the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. O-26-25, 6-2-2025)
6B-8-8: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses to
comply with, or who resists enforcement of any provisions of this chapter,
shall be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor
more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day that such violation
occurs or continues.
   (B)   The owner or tenant of any building, structure, or land and any
architect, builder, constructor, agent or other person who commits,
participates or assists in, or maintains such violation may each be found
guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties herein provided.
   (C)   If, as the result of the violation of any provision of this title, the
injury, mutilation, or death of a tree on City property is caused, the cost of
repair or replacement of such shall be borne by the person, contractor, or firm
found in violation thereof. The replacement value of a tree shall be determined
in accordance with the latest version of A Guide to the Professional Evaluation
of Landscape Trees, Specimen Shrubs and Evergreens, as published by the
International Society of Arboriculture, and shall be payable to the City within
thirty (30) days of the issuance of a decision. (Ord. O-26-25, 6-2-2025)
6B-8-9: APPEALS:
   (A)   Authority: The Municipal Services Committee shall hear and decide
appeals from any person aggrieved by an administrative order, requirement,
decision, or determination by City staff in the enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   Filing of Appeal: A notice of appeal must be filed with the City Clerk
within ten (10) days. The City Clerk shall process and forward the notice for
appeal to the Municipal Services Committee for review and hearing at its next
regularly scheduled meeting.
   (C)   Action by the Municipal Services Committee:
      1.   The Municipal Services Committee shall hold a hearing at a
reasonable time and place, within fifteen (15) days from the date the appeal
was forwarded to it by the City Clerk, and shall give notice thereof to the
parties, including the appellant, the Zoning Enforcement Officer, the Mayor,
and any other affected party who has requested in writing to be so notified.
Such hearing shall not be continued more than once without the consent of the
applicant, and in that event, for no more than seven (7) days.
      2.   The Municipal Services Committee shall decide the appeal and forward
a report of their decision to the applicant and to the City Council within
fifteen (15) days after the close of the hearing. The Municipal Services
Committee may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order,
requirement or decision or determination as in its opinion ought to be made on
the premises and to that end has all the powers of the official from whom the
appeal is taken.
      3.   All final administrative decisions of the Municipal Services
Committee under this Section shall be subject to judicial review pursuant to
the provisions of the Administrative Review Act. (Ord. O-26-25, 6-2-2025)
TITLE 6C
WATER DIVISION
Water Plant Distribution System   1
Water Service   2
Water Meters And Billing Regulations   3
Permits, Bonds, Fees And Rates   4
Regulation Of Potable Water Supply Wells In A Designated Area   5
CHAPTER 1
WATER PLANT DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
SECTION:
6C-1-1: Title
6C-1-2: Purpose
6C-1-3: General Regulations
6C-1-4: Permit Required
6C-1-5: Tampering With System
6C-1-6: Fire Hydrants
6C-1-7: Water Main Construction
6C-1-8: Private Wells
6C-1-9: Cross-Connection Control Regulations
6C-1-9-1: Cross-Connection Control; General Policy
6C-1-9-2: Definitions
6C-1-9-3: Water System
6C-1-9-4: Cross-Connection Prohibited
6C-1-9-5: Survey And Investigations
6C-1-9-6: Where Protection Is Required
6C-1-9-7: Type Of Protection Required
6C-1-9-8: Backflow Prevention Devices
6C-1-9-9: Inspection And Maintenance
6C-1-9-10: Booster Pumps
6C-1-9-11: Violations
6C-1-9-12: Effective Date
6C-1-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as the WATER PLANT AND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
REGULATIONS. (1978 Code)
6C-1-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to set forth the rules and regulations for
governing the Darien water plant and distribution system. (1978 Code)
6C-1-3: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
The construction, maintenance and repair of all water mains and water service
lines within the City shall be under the direction of and subject to the
approval of the Supervisor of Public Works whether constructed or maintained by
the City, by private firms, individuals or utilities, or by other public
agencies and no water supply mains shall be constructed and no mains shall be
placed in service that do not meet the construction and design standards of
this Chapter. It shall be unlawful to do any of the above work or place any new
installation in service without first having obtained a permit therefor from
the City and without fully complying with the provisions of this Chapter. (1978
Code)
6C-1-4: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to construct, remove, alter, repair or place in service
any water main, water service connection or water service extension without
first having secured a permit from the City and paying the required fees in
accordance with applicable ordinances of the City. (1978 Code)
6C-1-5: TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM:
It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the City to connect to,
tamper with, alter, operate or injure any part of the City waterworks or supply
system, or any water meter or to introduce any substance into any water pipes,
lines or mains connected to or forming a part of the system without written
approval of the Supervisor of Public Works. (1978 Code)
6C-1-6: FIRE HYDRANTS:
No person or persons, other than members of the Water and Street Departments of
the City, shall use water from any fire hydrant connected with the City water
system, except for extinguishing fires or unless especially authorized by the
Supervisor of Public Works. (1978 Code)
6C-1-7: WATER MAIN CONSTRUCTION:
   (A)   Water mains shall be installed to conform with the Comprehensive Water
Plan of the City, as adopted by the City Council or as may be adopted or
amended from time to time. All mains shall be a minimum of six inches (6") in
diameter. All water main lines are to be ductile iron pipe, cement lined or
equal material as approved by the City. Water mains will be located south of
the north right-of-way line or east of the west right-of-way line within the
road right of way or on dedicated easements. Water mains shall be buried not
less than five feet (5') below surface of the final grade, as measured to the
top of the pipe. A copy of the water distribution system, including all mains,
sizes, valve locations and hydrants shall be provided as built.
   (B)   Use traverse City fire hydrants with six inch (6") flanged inlet
connection, five inch (5") valve opening, two and one-half inch (21/2") hose
nozzles, one four and one-half inch (41/2") pumper connection for a six foot
(6') depth of trench with a six inch (6") auxiliary valve bolted on. Hydrants
should be "open left" and have national standard threads. Before purchasing,
the contractor should verify nozzle threads and operating nut size with the
appropriate fire protection district.
Fire hydrants with auxiliary valves shall be installed at intervals not to
exceed four hundred feet (400'). Hydrants shall be located south of the north
right-of-way line or east of the west right-of-way line within the road right
of way. Valve boxes will be placed on all auxiliary valves.
   (C)   Valves shall be installed on mains at locations to minimize
inconvenience to customers served, but in no case shall they be spaced greater
than eight hundred feet (800') apart. All valves must be placed in valve
vaults. Valves of six inch to twelve inch (6" to 12") diameter and above to be
installed in a five foot (5') diameter vault. Valves shall be located at the
extension of the right of way at its intersection with the water main wherever
possible.
   (D)   Curb stops, cocks and boxes shall be approved pattern of the inverted
key type and extension type, respectively.
   (E)   Construction of water improvements shall be in accordance with the
existing "Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois", and as amended and adopted by the City Council. (1978 Code)
6C-1-8: PRIVATE WELLS:
No connection between private well supplies and a public water supply system is
permitted. (1978 Code)
6C-1-9: CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL REGULATIONS:
6C-1-9-1: CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL; GENERAL POLICY:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of these rules and regulations is:
      1.   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer's water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system.
      2.   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-
connections, actual or potential, between the public or consumer's potable
water system and nonpotable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or
systems containing substances of unknown or questionable safety.
      3.   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer's potable water systems.
   (B)   Application: These rules and regulations shall apply to all premises
served by the public potable water supply system of the City.
   (C)   Policy: The owner or official custodian shall be responsible for
protection of the public water supply system from contamination due to backflow
or back-siphonage of contaminants through the customer's water service
connection. If, in the judgment of the Superintendent of Water or his
authorized representative, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the public water supply system, the Superintendent of Water
shall give notice to the consumer to install such approved backflow prevention
device at each service connection to the premises. The consumer shall
immediately install such approved device or devices at his own expense.
Failure, refusal or inability on the part of the consumer to install such
device or devices immediately shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water
service to the premises until such device or devices have been installed. The
consumer shall retain records of installation, maintenance, testing and repair
as required in subsection
6C-1-9-5(D) of this Chapter for a period of at least five (5) years. The
Superintendent of Water may require the consumer to submit a cross-connection
inspection report to the City Water Division to assist in determining whether
or not service line protection will be required. All cross-connection
inspections shall be conducted by a cross- connection control device inspector
certified by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. (Ord. 0-50-90, 9-4-
1990, eff. 9-4-1990)
6C-1-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
these regulations:
AGENCY: Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
APPROVED: Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research
Foundation for Cross-Connection Control of the University of Southern
California, Association of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works
Association, American National Standards Institute or certified by the National
Sanitation Foundation.
AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM: Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
purveyor's public water supply system; or water from a source such as wells,
lakes, or streams, or process fluids; or used water. These waters may be
polluted or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or
system over which the water purveyor does not have control.
BACKFLOW: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances into the
distribution pipes of potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: Any device, method, or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in Illinois must meet the standards of the Illinois
Plumbing Code and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
CONSUMER OR CUSTOMER: The owner, official custodian or person in control of any
premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
CONSUMER'S WATER SYSTEM: Any water system located on the customer's premises. A
building plumbing system is considered to be a customer's water system.
CONTAMINATION: An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
CROSS-CONNECTION: Any physical connection or arrangement between two (2)
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
Direct cross-connection means a cross-connection formed when a water system is
physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
Indirect cross-connection means a cross-connection through which an unknown
substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a safe
potable water system.
DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY: An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE Standard 1015. A double check valve
assembly must include tight shut-off valves located at each end of the assembly
and suitable connections for testing the watertightness of each check valve.
FIXED PROPER AIR GAP: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
HEALTH HAZARD: Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well-
being of consumers. The word "severe" as used to qualify "health hazard" means
a hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
INSPECTION: A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the Illinois Plumbing
Code, 77 Illinois Administrative Code 890.
NONPOTABLE WATER: Water not safe for drinking, personal, or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 35 Illinois Administrative Code 604.
PLUMBING: The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or extension
of a plumbing system by any person. Plumbing includes all piping, fixtures,
appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes, including
without limitation lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a private water
supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley or at the curb to
within and about any building or buildings where a person or persons live, work
or assemble. Plumbing includes all piping, from discharge of pumping units to
and including pressure tanks in water supply systems. Plumbing includes all
piping, fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a building drain and a
sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any building or buildings
where a person or persons live, work or assemble from the point of connection
of such building drain to the building sewer or private sewage disposal system
five feet (5') beyond the foundation walls.
POLLUTION: The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological, or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as
to constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
POTABLE WATER: Water which meets the requirements of 35 Illinois Administrative
Code 604 for drinking, culinary, and domestic purposes.
POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION: A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout, or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
PROCESS FLUIDS: Any fluid or solution which may be chemically, biologically or
otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration such as would
constitute a health, pollutional, or system hazard if introduced into the
public or a consumer's potable water system. This includes, but is not limited
to:
   (A)   Polluted or contaminated waters;
   (B)   Process waters;
   (C)   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which may
have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
   (D)   Cooling waters;
   (E)   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells, lakes,
streams, or irrigation systems;
   (F)   Chemicals in solution or suspension;
   (G)   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis, and other liquid and gaseous fluids used
in industrial or other process, or for firefighting purposes.
PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY: All mains, pipes, and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use and which serve at least fifteen (15) service connections or which
regularly serve at least twenty five (25) persons at least sixty (60) days per
year. A public water supply is either a "community water supply" or a
"noncommunity water supply".
REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPAL BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device containing a
minimum of two (2) independently acting check valves together with an
automatically operated pressure differential relief valve located between the
two (2) check valves and approved under ASSE Standard 1013. During normal flow
and at the cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two (2) checks
shall be less than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check
valve, the differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall
operate to maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the
supply pressure. The unit must include tightly closing shut-off valves located
at each end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with properly
located test cocks.
SERVICE CONNECTION: The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances, at
the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
SURVEY: The collection of information pertaining to a customer's piping system
regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply system and
must include the location, type and most recent inspection and testing date of
all cross- connection control devices and methods located within that
customer's piping system. The survey must be in written form, and should not be
an actual plumbing inspection.
SYSTEM HAZARD: A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer's potable water system.
USED WATER: Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a consumer's
water system after it has passed through the service connection and is no
longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
WATER PURVEYOR: The owner or official custodian of a public water system. (Ord.
0-50-90, 9-4-1990, eff. 9-4-1990)
6C-1-9-3: WATER SYSTEM:
   (A)   The water system shall be considered as made up of two (2) parts; the
public water supply system and the consumer's water system.
   (B)   The public water supply system shall consist of the source facilities
and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the
potable water system under the control of the Superintendent of Water up to the
point where the consumer's water system begins.
   (C)   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
   (D)   The public water supply distribution system shall include the network
of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer's water
system.
   (E)   The consumer's water system shall include all parts of the facilities
beyond the service connection used to convey water from the public water supply
distribution system to points of use. (Ord. 0-50-90, 9-4-1990, eff. 9-4-1990)
6C-1-9-4: CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED:
   (A)   Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited except when and where approved cross-connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested, and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   (B)   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable portion
of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better bacteriological
and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis by the Agency.
There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe substance may
enter a supply. (Ord. 0-50-90, 9-4-1990, eff. 9-4-1990)
6C-1-9-5: SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS:
   (A)   The consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
approved Cross-Connection Control Device Inspector for the inspection of the
presence or absence of cross-connections within the consumer's premises, and
testing, repair and maintenance of cross-connection control devices within the
consumer's premises.
   (B)   On request by the Superintendent of Water, or his authorized
representative, the consumer shall furnish information regarding the piping
system or systems or water use within the customer's premises. The consumer's
premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the Superintendent of Water
for the verification of information submitted by the consumer to the public
water supply custodian regarding cross-connection inspection results.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on his premises to determine whether
there are actual or potential cross- connections to his water system through
which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or the public potable
water system. All cross-connection control or other plumbing inspections must
be conducted in accordance with 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 320/3(1).
   (D)   It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow
into the public water system by ensuring that:
      1.   Removal; Approved For Installation: All cross-connections are
removed; or approved cross-connection control devices are installed for control
of backflow and back-siphonage.
      2.   Installation Instructions: Cross-connection control devices shall be
installed in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
      3.   Inspection And Testing: Cross-connection control devices shall be
inspected at the time of installation and at least annually by a person
approved by the Agency as a Cross-Connection Control Device Inspector (CCCDI).
The inspection of mechanical devices shall include physical testing in
accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
      4.   Testing And Records:
         (a)   Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and at
least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer.
         (b)   Records submitted to the community public water supply shall be
available for inspection by Agency personnel in accordance with 415 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/4(e).
         (c)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent test, name of CCCDI, and type and date of repairs.
         (d)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
            (1)   Date of each test;
            (2)   Name and approval number of person performing the test;
            (3)   Test results;
            (4)   Repairs or servicing required;
            (5)   Repairs and date completed; and
            (6)   Service performed and date completed. (Ord. 0-50-90, 9-4-
1990, eff. 9-4-1990)
6C-1-9-6: WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED:
   (A)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Illinois
Administrative Code 890 and the Agency's regulations 35 Illinois Administrative
Code 680. In addition, an approved backflow prevention device shall be
installed on each service line to a consumer's water system serving premises,
where in the judgment of the Superintendent of Water, actual or potential
hazards to the public water supply system exist.
   (B)   An approved backflow preventing device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer's water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      1.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the Superintendent of Water and
the source is approved by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
      2.   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the Superintendent of Water.
      3.   Premises having internal cross-connections that, in the judgment of
the Superintendent of Water and/or the Cross- Connection Control Device
Inspector, are not correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it
impractical to determine whether or not cross-connections exist.
      4.   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey.
      5.   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or reestablished.
   (C)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Illinois
Administrative Code 890 and the Agency's regulations 35 Illinois Administrative
Code 653. In addition, an approved backflow prevention device shall be
installed on each service line to a consumer's water system serving, but not
necessarily limited to, the following types of facilities unless the
Superintendent of Water determines that no actual or potential hazard to the
public water supply system exists:
      1.   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes;
      2.   Laboratories;
      3.   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities;
      4.   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or storm water
pumping stations;
      5.   Food or beverage processing plants;
      6.   Chemical plants;
      7.   Metal plating industries;
      8.   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
      9.   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors;
      10.   Car washes;
      11.   Pesticide, or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks; and
      12.   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks. (Ord. 0-50-90, 9-4-
1990, eff. 9-4-1990)
6C-1-9-7: TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED:
   (A)   The type of protection required under subsections
6C-1-9-6(B)1, (B)2 and (B)3 of this Chapter shall depend on the degree of
hazard which exists as follows:
      1.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed where
the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that could
cause a severe health hazard.
      2.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or health hazard.
      3.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or a double check valve
assembly shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to
health.
   (B)   The type of protection required under subsections
6C-1-9-6(B)4 and (B)5 of this Chapter shall be an approved fixed proper air gap
separation or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
device.
   (C)   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for a
fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be
installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply when:
      1.   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or other
chemicals;
      2.   Water is pumped into the system from another source; or
      3.   Water flows by gravity from a nonpotable source; or water can be
pumped into the fire safety system from any other source;
      4.   There is a connection whereby another source can be introduced into
the fire safety system.
   (D)   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines
and a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines. (Ord. 0-
50-90, 9-4-1990, eff. 9-4-1990)
6C-1-9-8: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   (A)   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by these rules and
regulations shall be approved by the Research Foundation for Cross-Connection
Control of the University of Southern California, American Water Works
Association, American Society of Sanitary Engineering, or American National
Standards Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be in
compliance with applicable industry specification.
   (B)   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions. Maintenance as recommended by the manufacturer of
the device shall be performed and a manufacturer's maintenance manual shall be
available on site. (Ord. 0-50-90, 9-4-1990, eff. 9-4-1990)
6C-1-9-9: INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE:
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner of any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by these regulations are installed to have
inspections, tests, maintenance and repairs made in accordance with the
following schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need or are
specified in manufacturer's instructions.
      1.   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document that
a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of the
service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or
bypassed air gaps shall be made within twenty four (24) hours.
      2.   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at time
of installation and at least annually thereafter, and required service
performed within five (5) days.
      3.   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within five (5)
days.
   (B)   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
Agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
   (C)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester, and type and date of repairs.
   (D)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      1.   Date of each test or visual inspection;
      2.   Name and approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
      3.   Test results;
      4.   Repairs or servicing required;
      5.   Repairs and date completed; and
      6.   Servicing performed and date completed.
   (E)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay as required by subsection (A) of this Section.
   (F)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
Superintendent of Water. (Ord. 0-50-90, 9-4-1990, eff. 9-4-1990)
6C-1-9-10: BOOSTER PUMPS:
   (A)   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cut-off
device designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to twenty (20) psi or less.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low
pressure cut-off device in proper working order and to certify to the
Superintendent of Water, at least once a year, that the device is operable.
(Ord. 0-50-90, 9-4-1990, eff. 9-4-1990)
6C-1-9-11: VIOLATIONS:
   (A)   The Superintendent of Water shall deny or discontinue, after
reasonable notice to the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises
where in any backflow prevention device required by these regulations is not
installed, tested, maintained and repaired in a manner acceptable to the
Superintendent of Water, or if it is found that the backflow prevention device
has been removed or bypassed, or if an unprotected cross-connection exists on
the premises, or if a low pressure cut-off required by these regulations is not
installed and maintained in working order.
   (B)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Water,
and the required reconnection fee is paid.
   (C)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Water.
   (D)   Neither the City, the Superintendent of Water, or its agents or
assigns shall be liable to any customers of the City for any injury, damages or
lost revenues which may result from termination of said customer's water supply
in accordance with the terms of this Section, whether or not said termination
of the water supply was with or without notice.
   (E)   The consumer responsible for back-siphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
cleanup of the potable water supply system.
   (F)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this Section shall
be served with written notice stating the notice of the violation and providing
a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender
shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all
violation.
   (G)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section in addition
to the fine provided, shall become liable to the City for any expense, loss or
damage occasioned by the City by reason of such violation, whether the same was
caused before or after notice. (Ord. 0-50-90, 9-4-1990, eff. 9-4-1990)
6C-1-9-12: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This Chapter shall be in full force and effect upon its passage and approval,
and shall subsequently be published in pamphlet form as provided by law. (Ord.
0-50-90, 9-4-1990, eff. 9-4-1990)
CHAPTER 2
WATER SERVICE
SECTION:
6C-2-1: Title
6C-2-2: Purpose
6C-2-3: General Regulations
6C-2-4: Definitions
6C-2-5: Permits Required; Fees
6C-2-6: Water Service Applications
6C-2-7: Water Service Construction
6C-2-8: Maintenance Of Extensions
6C-2-9: Turning On Water Supply
6C-2-10: Resale Of Water
6C-2-11: Penalty
6C-2-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as WATER SERVICE REGULATIONS. (1978 Code)
6C-2-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to set forth the rules and regulations for
providing public water service. (1978 Code)
6C-2-3: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
The construction, maintenance and repair of all water mains and water service
lines within the City shall be under the direction of and subject to the
approval of the Supervisor of Public Works whether constructed or maintained by
the City, by private firms, individuals or utilities, or by other public
agencies and no water supply mains shall be constructed and no mains shall be
placed in service that do not meet the construction and design standards of
this Chapter. It shall be unlawful to do any of the above work or place any new
installation in service without first having obtained a permit therefor from
the City and without fully complying with the provisions of this Chapter. (1978
Code)
6C-2-4: DEFINITIONS:
"B" BOX: Curb stop.
BUFFALO BOX: Curb stop.
CURB STOP: A valve located at the end of the service line at the common right-
of-way and property lines.
MAIN: The pipeline constructed for the purpose of transporting potable water to
potential users and constructed within public rights of way or easements.
SERVICE EXTENSION: The water line extending from the curb stop to the meter
located upon the property intended for service.
SERVICE LINE: The water line extending from the main to the right-of-way or
easement line, including a shut-off valve or curb stop. (1978 Code)
6C-2-5: PERMITS REQUIRED; FEES:
When installation of a water service or a water service extension is required,
a permit for each shall be obtained from the City upon payment of the required
fees. The fees for the permits required herein shall be in accordance with
Chapter 4 of this Title. Such fees shall cover the cost of inspection of the
service connection and any installation costs incurred by the City. (1978 Code)
Any permit issued herein shall require that all work be completed within ninety
(90) days from the issuance of said permit, or the permit will expire, and
become null and void. (Ord. 0-31-81, 7-20-1981)
6C-2-6: WATER SERVICE APPLICATIONS:
All applications for furnishing water shall be in writing on forms furnished by
the City.
   (A)   Areas In Darien Presently Served With Water By The City: Applications
for furnishing water within the City and where the water mains are existing
will be processed and approved on meeting any other applicable requirements of
this Chapter and the payment of the required fees.
   (B)   Areas In Darien Presently Served With Water By Other Agencies:
Applications for permits for water supply and distribution work in the City,
where another agency is supplying the water, will be issued on meeting the
applicable ordinance provisions, on approval of the City Council and on payment
of the required fees.
   (C)   Areas Outside Darien Within The Accredited Area Of The Darien Utility
Company And Where The Water Main Exists: Applications for furnishing water
within these areas where the necessary water mains are existing will be
processed and approved on meeting any other applicable requirements of this
Chapter and the payment of the required fees.
   (D)   Other Areas Outside Darien: Applications for furnishing water to areas
outside Darien not within the accredited area of the Darien Utility Company, or
where the necessary water mains do not exist, must first be acted on by the
City Council following a report by the City Engineer outlining the effect of
the granting of the permit on the system, and if favorably acted on will be
issued on meeting any other applicable requirements of this Chapter, on payment
of the required fees, and on the applicant entering into agreement with the
City covering the cost of any water main extensions.
   (E)   Areas In Darien Not Served By Water Mains: Applications for water
service in areas of Darien not presently served with water mains will not be
processed until such mains are installed. The mains may be installed on
request, with the direction of the City Council.
   (F)   Cash Deposit Required 1 : In case of failure for thirty (30) days to
pay any charge made by the City in connection with furnishing water, the City
may, at its option, apply the deposit provided for or so much thereof as may be
necessary to pay any amount due to the City for waterworks services. The
deposit provided for will be refunded upon payment in full of all charges up to
and including the shutting off of the water supply. (1978 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  6C-4-6 of this Title.
6C-2-7: WATER SERVICE CONSTRUCTION:
   (A)   Installation Of Water Main Prerequisite To Connection: No water
service connection may be made unless a water main meeting the requirements of
this Chapter has been installed adjacent to the property to be served.
   (B)   Water Service Pipe: All service pipe shall be Type K copper soft
tubing and joints shall be flared to fit copper compression type fittings.
Diameter of service shall be one inch (1") minimum. Materials other than copper
may be used if approval is given by the Plan Commission and the City Engineer.
All service pipes shall be installed with a minimum earth cover of four feet
six inches (4'6"). Trench backfill for at least six inches (6") over the top of
the service pipe shall be sandy or fine granular material free from large lumps
or stones. Within the street right of way, it shall meet and be installed in
accordance with the standard requirements of the City. Street surface and base
shall be replaced with like material.
   (C)   Location, Installation Of Shut-Off Valve Or Curb Stop: The shut-off
valve or curb stop shall be located on the street side of the street right-of-
way line and not more than seven and one- half feet (71/2') therefrom, and
shall be installed with a valve vault box of design approved by the City.
   (D)   Entrance Of Connections, Extensions Into Buildings: All service
connections or extensions shall be laid in streets, alleys or public grounds to
the premises so as to enter the building to be served by the most direct route
from the main.
   (E)   Reconstruction Of Existing Connection: Where an existing property is
served by a water service connection extending past adjacent property, such
service connection shall be reconstructed at the expense of the owner of the
property served by such service connection to conform to subsection (D) of this
Section within one year after the placing in service of a water main adjacent
to said property, or, if such main already exists, within one year following
the passage of this Chapter.
   (F)   Persons Authorized To Make Connections: All water service connections
shall be made by the Public Works Department employees or by contractors
approved by the City and supervised by the Public Works Department.
   (G)   Extensions To Adjoining Premises Prohibited: No property owner will be
permitted to extend a water service connection or extension across a lot to
adjoining premises to avoid an extension of a water main to service his lot.
   (H)   Licensed Plumber To Install Extensions At Owner's Expense: Water
service extensions shall be installed by a licensed plumber at the sole expense
of the owner of the premises being served.
   (I)   Extension To Be Tested: Each service extension shall be tested prior
to backfilling in the presence of a City water inspector and shall show no
leakage under full water pressure.
   (J)   Proximity Of Extensions To Sewer Line: No water service or water
service extension shall be located closer than ten feet (10') horizontal
measurement, to a sanitary sewer line except for the following:
The water service pipe may be placed in the same trench with the building drain
provided that the following conditions are met:
      1.   The bottom of the water service pipe, at all points, shall be at
least eighteen inches (18") above the top of the drain line at its highest
point.
      2.   The water service pipe shall be placed on a solid shelf excavated at
one side of the common trench.
      3.   The number of joints in the service pipe shall be kept to a minimum
      4.   The materials and joints of drain and water service pipe shall be
installed in such a manner and shall possess the necessary strength and
durability to prevent the escape of solids, liquids, and gases, therefrom,
under all known adverse conditions such as corrosion, strains due to
temperature changes, settlement, vibrations and superimposed loads. The water
service pipe shall be cast iron with approved joiners.
   (K)   Fire Protection Lines: Separate services shall be installed for the
domestic water system and for fire protection systems. (1978 Code)
   (L)   Private Fire Protection Connections: All private fire protection
systems must incorporate a backflow preventor installed in compliance with
State and County Health Department regulations at the owner's expense. All
private fire protection systems, if not connected to a metered supply must
incorporate a flow detection meter approved by the City and at the owner's
expense. (Ord. 0-25-82, 7-19-1982)
6C-2-8: MAINTENANCE OF EXTENSIONS:
Water service extensions are the property of and shall be maintained at the
expense of the owner of the property served.
   (A)   Repair Of Leaks And Defects; Owner's Responsibility: Any leaks or
defects in water service extensions shall be promptly repaired by the owners
and if leaks develop in an existing service extension not meeting the
requirements of this Chapter, it shall be replaced with a line that does meet
such requirements.
   (B)   Failure To Repair Leaks: In case any leak in a water service extension
is not promptly repaired, the water supply shall be shut off by the Public
Works Department and not turned on again until such leak has been repaired and
any expenses incurred by the City in connection therewith has been paid by the
owner, occupant or user.
   (C)   Liability Of City: The City shall not be liable for any damage caused
by a failure to repair the same promptly, nor shall the City be liable for any
damage caused by the repair or installation of such pipes, or damage resulting
therefrom. (1978 Code)
6C-2-9: TURNING ON WATER SUPPLY:
No water service line shall be turned on for service, other than for
construction purposes, until the Building Department has inspected the water
supply lines in the building and certified that they comply with the Plumbing
Code 1  requirements of the City. The water supply line serving any property
shall not be turned on by anyone other than Water Department employees or other
persons authorized by the Public Works Supervisor. (1978 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  4-1-7-1 of this Code.
6C-2-10: RESALE OF WATER:
No water shall be resold or furnished by the purchaser to any other premises or
to buildings not served by the Darien water system except in case of emergency
and on approval of the Public Works Supervisor. (1978 Code)
6C-2-11: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be fined, upon
conviction, not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation, plus the costs of the action, and
a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day that such violation
continues. (1978 Code)
CHAPTER 3
WATER METERS AND BILLING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6C-3-1: Title
6C-3-2: Purpose
6C-3-3: Meter Requirements
6C-3-4: Meter Maintenance And Repair
6C-3-5: Meter Testing
6C-3-6: Billing And Meter Reading
6C-3-7: Nonpayment Of Bills
6C-3-8: Supply Of Water To Premises During Construction
6C-3-9: Water Use Restricted
6C-3-10: Permit Required For Alteration
6C-3-11: Violation, Penalty
6C-3-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as the WATER METER AND BILLING REGULATIONS. (1978
Code)
6C-3-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to set forth rules and regulations to govern the
maintenance and operation procedures as they pertain to water meters and
billing for water use and service. (1978 Code)
6C-3-3: METER REQUIREMENTS:
All premises using water from the City water system must be equipped with an
accurate water meter obtained from the City on payment of the required fees as
established by the City Council and installed by the Water Department or by a
licensed plumber in a place of easy access and shall, where possible, be
located within three feet (3') of the point where water service enters the
building. No branch supplies shall be connected between the meter and the main.
The water meter is and shall remain the property of the City, and outside
readers shall be required for all new meter installations. (1978 Code)
6C-3-4: METER MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR:
Subsequent to installation, the water meter shall be maintained, or if
necessary, replaced, by the Water Division at the City's cost and expense,
except in case a water meter is damaged as a result of negligence or fault of
the property owner, his agent or servant, in which case the owner shall pay the
cost of repairs or replacement of the meter 1 . (1978 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  6C-4-6(F) of this Title.
6C-3-5: METER TESTING:
In case of a disputed bill and request on the part of the customer for testing
of the meter for accuracy, no charge will be made if the meter needs repair
through normal use. If the meter is found to be accurate, the customer will be
charged a fee for the removal and testing as listed in Chapter 4 of this Title
1 . (1978 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. See also subsection
  6C-4-6(E) of this Title.
6C-3-6: BILLING AND METER READING:
   (A)   Payment Liability: In every case, the owner of the premises, the
occupant thereof and the use of the service shall be jointly and severally
liable to pay for the service on such premises and the service is furnished to
the premises by the City only upon the condition that the owner of the
premises, occupant and user of the service are jointly and severally liable
therefor to the City. Liability is for payment for all water used on the
premises until written notice has been received at the Department office that
the use of water is no longer desired and the water service turned off.
Customers are liable for all water shown to have passed through the meter and
consumed on the property whether by use, wastage, leakage or any other cause.
(1978 Code)
   (B)   Billing Period: Bills for metered service shall be rendered every two
(2) months and shall show the readings of the meter at the beginning and end of
the period for which the bill is rendered. The basis for computing such bill
shall be the same as indicated by the meter readings.
      1.   In case the meter cannot be read for any cause, the City will
require a payment on account equal to the average bill for the prior six (6)
months' consumption.
      2.   Where a meter has ceased to register or is registering improperly,
the quantity of water for which the bill will be rendered will be determined by
using meter readings for comparable prior months' consumption. (Ord. 0-44-91,
7-15-1991)
   (C)   Time Of Payment: Bills for water service will be mailed or delivered
to the customer's last address as shown by the records of the department when
due, but failure to receive a bill will not relieve the customer from the
obligation to pay the same. All bills and other accounts must be paid at the
office of the department. All bills for water service become delinquent fifteen
(15) days after the date of the bill. Service may be discontinued fifteen (15)
days after notice by the department that the bill is delinquent unless the bill
is paid according to said notice.
The amount shown to be due by any bill (without penalty) will be accepted if
mailed within fifteen (15) days of the date of the bill. When the last day for
payment falls on a Sunday or a legal holiday, the time for payments of the bill
will be automatically extended to include the first following full business
day.
   (D)   Contested Bills: In case a customer files written objections to any
bill within fifteen (15) days of the date thereof, the department will accept
payment (without penalty) within ten (10) days after the customer has been
notified of the results of the department's investigation. Thereafter, a
penalty will be payable on the amount billed at the rate provided for in the
rate schedule.
   (E)   Water Shutoff; Nonreading Of Meter: In cases where for any cause the
meter cannot be read for a period of six (6) months, the department will turn
off the water upon due notice unless the customer provides access to the meter
immediately. (1978 Code)
   (F)   Penalty: For purposes of this provision, the penalty assessed when a
water bill becomes delinquent after fifteen (15) days of the date of the bill
shall be an amount equal to five percent (5%) of the amount due. In the event a
bill is not paid in full within thirty (30) days after the date of the bill, an
additional penalty in an amount equal to five percent (5%) of the amount of the
bill shall be added to the bill. (Ord. 0-39-84, 11-5-1984)
6C-3-7: NONPAYMENT OF BILLS:
The water supply may be shut off from any premises for the following reasons:
   (A)   When the water meter bill, repair bill or any other bill remains
unpaid thirty (30) days after the date of such bill.
   (B)   When the owner refuses a request from the City to enter the premises
for purposes of meter repair or replacement for at least 45 days after having
received written notice sent to the owner either by first-class mail or by
personal delivery that a continued refusal to allow the City to enter the
premises for purpose of meter repair or replacement will result in the
initiation of procedures to terminate water service.
   (C)   Prior to termination of water service, the City shall cause written
notice of proposed termination to be served upon the party or parties
responsible for the payment of the same, specifying the reason, and advising
the party that water service will be terminated for cause, on a date which
shall be not less than ten (10) days from the date of notice. Such notice shall
be served either personally or by mail, postage prepaid. Such notice shall also
advise the party that (s)he may request an informal pretermination hearing to
determine whether such cause for shut-off exists. If such party requests a
hearing one will be conducted by City employee designated by the City
Administrator. The hearing shall be public and informal, and the hearing
officer shall take evidence only concerning the accuracy of the charges. At the
close of the hearing, the hearing officer shall decide whether service should
be terminated or not.
   (D)   If the hearing officer determines that service shall be terminated,
(s) he shall so notify the party and instruct the Director of Municipal
Services to terminate service not earlier than three (3) days after the date of
the hearing. A copy of such instruction to terminate service shall be delivered
personally, or sent by first class mail, postage prepaid, upon the party or
parties responsible for the payment of the delinquent charges.
   (E)   When the water has been shut off, the supply shall not be turned on
except upon payment of the delinquent bill, any other outstanding charges and
the fee specified for turning on water.
   (F)   In the event any water bills or charges for service are not paid
within thirty (30) days after rendition of the bill for such service, such
charges shall be deemed and are hereby declared to be delinquent, and
thereafter such delinquencies shall constitute liens upon the real estate for
which such service is supplied, and the city is hereby authorized and directed
each month to file sworn statements showing such delinquencies in the office of
the recorder of deeds of DuPage County, Illinois, and the filing of such
statements shall be deemed notice of a lien for the payment of such charges for
such service. (1978 Code; amd. Ord. O-09-22, 5-2-2022)
6C-3-8: SUPPLY OF WATER TO PREMISES DURING CONSTRUCTION:
Premises may be supplied with metered water during construction according to
the required fees. (1978 Code)
6C-3-9: WATER USE RESTRICTED:
During the period of time from May 15 to September 15 of each year, water from
the city water system shall not be used for water or sprinkling of gardens,
lawns, trees, shrubs or other outdoor plants between the hours of eleven
o'clock (11:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. Watering is not permitted on
consecutive days, odd numbered addresses are restricted to watering on odd
numbered dates, even numbered addresses are restricted to watering on even
numbered dates. This restriction shall not prohibit the watering of newly
planted seed or the laying of sod for a yard area less than three (3) months
old. New/replacement sprinkler systems shall be equipped with a WaterSense
labeled irrigation controller and shall be in compliance with section 2.5(g) of
the Illinois plumbing license law 1 . (Ord. 0-23-15, 8-3-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 320.
6C-3-10: PERMIT REQUIRED FOR ALTERATION:
No alteration, change of location or addition of any kind shall be made to any
water meter, water cock or service pipe, connected in any way with the supply
to any building or premises, without first obtaining a written permit from the
supervisor. (1978 Code)
6C-3-11: VIOLATION, PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of section
6C-3-9 of this chapter shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
Whenever a violation of section
6C-3-9 of this chapter shall occur, the person to whom the water bill is
addressed shall be prima facie responsible for such violation and subject to
the penalty therefor.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter except for section
6C-3-9 of this chapter, shall be fined, upon conviction, not less than twenty
five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
violation, plus the costs of the action, and each day that such violation
continues, shall be deemed to be a separate offense. (Ord. 0-44-91, 7-15-1991)
CHAPTER 4
PERMITS, BONDS, FEES AND RATES
SECTION:
6C-4-1: Title
6C-4-2: Purpose
6C-4-3: Rates Subject To Change
6C-4-4: Permits Required
6C-4-5: Bonds
6C-4-6: Fees
6C-4-7: Water Consumption Charges
6C-4-8: Violation, Penalty
6C-4-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as PERMITS, BONDS, FEES AND RATES. (1978 Code)
6C-4-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to establish the fees and rates which shall be
imposed by the Mayor and City Council for the purpose of providing a source of
revenue for the operation, maintenance and expansion of the Darien public water
supply and distribution system. (1978 Code)
6C-4-3: RATES SUBJECT TO CHANGE:
The Mayor and Council shall from time to time review the fees and rates listed
in this Chapter and in any other appropriate ordinance and shall adjust the
said rates as may be required to maintain a balanced operating budget. (1978
Code)
6C-4-4: PERMITS REQUIRED:
An approved permit shall be required before any work may proceed for the
construction, maintenance or repair of a water main or service. (1978 Code)
6C-4-5: BONDS:
Construction bonds shall be required for the construction, maintenance or
repair of water mains or services. A two hundred dollar ($200.00) cash bond
shall be required for each water service construction or repair. Such bond may
be retained for eight (8) months to assure proper installation and restoration
of the parkway after which twenty five dollars ($25.00) will be retained as
inspection fees and the balance, one hundred seventy five dollars ($175.00),
will be returned to the applicant. In the event additional inspections are
required, an additional ten dollars ($10.00) will be retained for each such
inspection. In the event the contractor refuses to complete the construction,
maintenance, repair or restoration to the satisfaction of the inspector and
cost to do so is borne by the City, the cash bond will be retained to cover
such cost. (1978 Code)
6C-4-6: FEES:
   (A)   Water Service Residences:
      1.   Single-Family Residences:
      Connection   Inspection   Meter
   Meter Size   Charge   Charge   Charge
   5/8 inch   $700.00   $25.00   Cost + 5%
(Ord. 0-64-90, 12-17-1990)
The properties listed on Exhibit A 1  shall have the opportunity to pay a
connection fee of one hundred eighty dollars ($180.00) plus inspection and
meter charges for the time period from January 1, 1991, to December 31, 1992,
after which these properties shall pay the current connection fee; in addition,
those properties on Exhibit A for which the owners have previously paid the
charges set forth in subsection (A)2 of this Section shall have until December
31, 1995, within which to pay the one hundred eighty dollars ($180.00)
connection fee plus inspection and meter charges. (Ord. 0-03-91, 1-21-1991)
      2.   All Others:
      Connection   Inspection   Meter
   Meter Size   Charge   Charge   Charge
   1 inch   $ 1,700.00   $25.00   Cost + 5%
   11/2 inch   3,000.00   25.00   Cost + 5%
   2 inch   5,000.00   25.00   Cost + 5%
   3 inch   10,500.00   25.00   Cost + 5%
   4 inch   17,000.00   25.00   Cost + 5%
   6 inch   25,000.00   25.00   Cost + 5%
   8 inch   120,000.00   25.00   Cost + 5%
   10 inch   170,000.00   25.00   Cost + 5%
(Ord. 0-04-91, 1-21-1991)
   (B)   Connection Fee: The connection fee is the permit charge only and does
not cover the actual cost of connecting the service to the water main.
   (C)   Inspection Fee For Large Water Services: The inspection fee for water
service lines four inches (4") in diameter or larger shall be charged a minimum
of twenty five dollars ($25.00). Ten cents ($0.10) per lineal foot will be
charged in addition to the initial twenty five dollars ($25.00) charge for each
lineal foot of service line over two hundred fifty feet (250').
   (D)   Meter Fee: The meter fee is the permit charge for the meter only and
does not cover the actual cost of the installation of the meter, lines or
fittings.
   (E)   Meter Testing: Fifteen dollars ($15.00), if requested.
   (F)   Meter Repair: Damage to water meters caused by neglect or abuse on the
part of the responsible person or persons in charge shall be charged to the
account at the rate of twenty dollars ($20.00) plus the cost of repair parts or
replacement meter if the damaged meter is beyond repair.
   (G)   Private Fire Protection Fees:
 
Connection Size Connection Fee Inspection Fee
4 inch          $1,400.00      $25.00
6 inch          2,100.00       25.00
8 inch          4,000.00       25.00
 
   (H)   Additional Connection Charges:
      1.   Water Connection Fee Surcharge: In addition to all other water
connection or tap-on fees established by Municipal ordinances, there is herein
a water connection and tap-on fee surcharge. Such surcharge, in addition to all
other fees, must be paid by the applicant prior to the connection to the City
water system. The surcharge shall apply to connections to all water lines
installed at the cost of the City subsequent to the purchase by the City of an
existing water utility system. The surcharge shall commence immediately after
the passage and approval of this Ordinance and shall be immediately applicable
to all existing lines installed by the City and to all lines installed by the
City subsequent to the passage of this Ordinance. From the date that a
Municipal water line is available and operational at the property line of a
potential user, the amount of the water surcharge shall be fifty percent (50%)
of the actual cost per foot of installation of water line times the number of
front feet of the property seeking connection to the water system. The water
surcharge set forth above shall apply to each residential unit. All other types
of units shall pay a water surcharge in some multiple of the residential
surcharge reflecting the ratio between the amount of water to be used by the
nonresidential applicant. The amount of the fee shall be established by the
City Engineer, and in the event that the user questions the fee, he may appeal
to the City Council.
      2.   1981 Water Main Extension Program: Notwithstanding the provisions of
any other ordinance, all potential water users who live in the area where water
lines are installed as part of the City's "1981 Water Main Extension Program",
which area is described in Project Plans by that name on file with the City
Clerk and incorporated by reference herein, shall pay the following connection
charges prior to connection to the City water system:
         (a)   A water connection charge representing the actual pro rata
construction costs of the extension of such lines in said area on a per lot
basis, as determined and certified by the City Engineer;
         (b)   The tap-on fees and water meter charges as set forth in this
Chapter; and
         (c)   A surcharge of fifty dollars ($50.00) per month or each fraction
thereof which ensues from July 20, 1981, to the date that application for
connection is made as provided herein. The charge imposed by this subsection
(H)2(c) shall not exceed one thousand two hundred dollars ($1,200.00).
         (d)   The charges set forth herein are subject to the following
limitations and exceptions:
            (1)   Any potential user who on or before July 20, 1981, paid the
connection charge established in subsection (H)2(a) of this Section shall not
be required to pay the additional charge established in subsection (H)2(c) of
this Section.
            (2)   For any potential user who makes application to establish a
water connection to the City Water System within one year from the date that
water lines are completed, operational and available at the user's property
line, the tap-on fee as provided by this Chapter 4 shall be waived except as to
that portion thereof representing the cost of water meters.
            (3)   No individual who has paid the charge described in subsection
(H)2(a) of this Section on or before July 20, 1981, shall be required to
connect to the City water system prior to July 20, 1991. Any individual who
pays the charges described above subsequent to July 20, 1981, must connect to
the City water system within ninety (90) days of the final acceptance of the
water main extension improvements by the City Engineer, or ninety (90) days
after receiving all permits as described herein, whichever is later.
         (e)   Any person who purchases a residential unit in the affected
area, the closing date of such purchase being from June, 1981, through December
31, 1981, and who makes application for participation within six (6) months
thereafter, shall be entitled to the rights and benefits of those potential
users who made the payment described in subsection (H)2(a) of this Section on
or before July 20, 1981.
         (f)   No person shall make any connection or install any water service
in the area affected by this Section until a permit is obtained from the City
upon the payment of all fees as required herein and elsewhere in this Title.
Any permit issued hereunder shall require that all work be completed within
ninety (90) days from the issuance of said permit or the permit will expire and
be null and void, except that any permit obtained prior to final acceptance of
the water main extension improvements by the City Engineer shall expire ninety
(90) days after such acceptance.
         (g)   All individuals who pay the charge described in subsection (H)2
(a) of this Section on the basis of an estimated pro rata share shall be
entitled to a rebate by the City in an amount that said payment exceeds the
actual pro rata share, based on final construction costs.
         (h)   The City shall determine the methods and manner of processing
this rebate as soon as is reasonably possible following the completion of the
"1981 Water Main Extension Program". The City Council shall endeavor to
complete this determination within two (2) months after receipt and review of
the first Water Department annual audit following the completion of said
program.
         (i)   For good cause shown, and upon the concurrence of three- fourths
(3/4) of the Aldermen, the requirements of this Section may be modified or
waived in cases of special circumstances or undue hardships.
      3.   Water Connection Charges In Business Districts: In addition to any
other charges provided in other ordinances, all water users located on property
located within any of the business, OR and I, I or O Zoning Districts within
the City shall pay a water connection charge representing the actual pro rata
construction cost to the City of the extension of water lines to the area in
which such property is located on a per lot basis as determined and certified
by the City Engineer. In the event that there is a preexisting or nonconforming
residential use on any such property, such residential water user shall pay
only the tap-on fees and water meter charges as set forth in this Chapter and
the connection charge imposed herein shall not be assessed until such time as
the property is devoted to a use permitted in the zoning district in which it
is located. (Ord. 0-11-88, 5-2-1988)
      4.   Additional Connection Charges; Acquisition Areas: Notwithstanding
the provisions of any other ordinance, all potential water users who live
within the area described below, and who have City water available at the
property line, shall pay the following connection charge prior to connection to
the City water system:
         (a)   For all properties located in the area bordered generally by
75th Street on the north, Lemont Road on the west, Darien City limits on the
south, and Fairview Avenue on the east, the owners thereof shall pay a
connection charge of twenty nine dollars ($29.00) per front foot.
         (b)   For all properties located in the area bordered generally by
Lemont Road on the west, Kearney Road (if extended south to I-55) on the east,
Interstate 55 on the south, and the Darien city limits on the north, the owners
thereof shall pay a connection charge of thirty three dollars ($33.00) per
front foot.
         (c)   For all properties located in the area within the city extending
west of Lemont Road to the Darien city limits between 83rd Street on the north
and the Darien city limits on the south, and known generally as the Farmingdale
Village area, the owners thereof shall pay a connection charge of thirty five
dollars ($35.00) per front foot.
         (d)   For all properties being served by the former Lake-In-The- Woods
System, the owners thereof shall pay a connection charge of thirty three
dollars ($33.00) per front foot. This connection charge shall not apply to
properties subject to recapture payments to the county of DuPage with respect
to the county's extension of a certain water main along Plainfield Road. (Ord.
0-62-92, 12-7-1992)
   (I)   Turn On Fee: Water service to any account which has been disconnected
(shut off) for nonpayment of a water bill, repair bill or any other bill due
the water division shall not be turned on except upon payment of the delinquent
bill, and any other outstanding charges and a twenty five dollar ($25.00) turn
on fee.
   (J)   Construction Water: With respect to construction water, fire hydrant
meters will be provided upon the receipt of the appropriate cash deposit and
charges for the meter use will be equal to the current water use rate for that
district plus twenty percent (20%) for additional handling.
 
Meter Size Cash Deposit
Large      $600.00
Small      400.00
 
(Ord. 0-11-88, 5-2-1988)
 
Notes
1 1. Exhibit A is on file with the City Clerk.
6C-4-7: WATER CONSUMPTION CHARGES:
   (A)   The cost of water usage for customers located within the corporate
boundaries of the city shall be a rate of nine dollars seventy five cents
($9.75) per one thousand (1,000) gallons or fraction thereof.
   (B)   The cost of water usage for customers located outside the corporate
boundaries of the city shall be a rate of eleven dollars seventy cents ($11.70)
per one thousand (1,000) gallons or fraction thereof.
   (C)   A charge of fifteen ($15.00) shall be added to each bill for customers
located within the corporate boundaries of the city, and a charge of eighteen
dollars ($18.00) shall be added to each bill for customers located outside the
corporate boundaries of the city. These charges represent payment to the city
for fixed system costs. (Ord. 0-08-16, 3-21-2016; amd. Ord. O-18-25, 4-7-2025)
6C-4-8: VIOLATION, PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined, upon
conviction, not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation, plus the costs of the action, and
each day that such violation continues shall be deemed to be a separate
offense. (1978 Code)
CHAPTER 5
REGULATION OF POTABLE WATER SUPPLY WELLS IN A DESIGNATED AREA
SECTION:
6C-5-1: Title
6C-5-2: Definitions
6C-5-3: Use Of Groundwater As A Potable Water Supply Prohibited
6C-5-4: Penalty
6C-5-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as REGULATION OF POTABLE WATER SUPPLY WELLS IN A
DESIGNATED AREA. (Ord. 0-28-14, 8-4-2014)
6C-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used herein, the following terms shall have the meanings hereinafter
ascribed to each term:
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, limited
liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust,
estate, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
POTABLE WATER: Any water used for human or domestic consumption, including, but
not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming, washing dishes, or
preparing foods. (Ord. 0-28-14, 8-4-2014)
6C-5-3: USE OF GROUNDWATER AS A POTABLE WATER SUPPLY PROHIBITED:
The use or attempt to use as a potable water supply groundwater from within the
corporate limits of the city of Darien, in that area of the city as depicted
and narrated on exhibit C attached to the ordinance codified herein and made a
part hereof, by the installation or drilling of wells or by any other method is
hereby prohibited, as identified by the IEPA. This prohibition expressly
includes the city of Darien and any other unit of local government. (Ord. 0-35-
14, 11-3-2014)
6C-5-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine
of not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each such violation. A separate violation shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues. (Ord. 0-28-14, 8-4-2014)
TITLE 7
HEALTH AND SANITATION
Refuse Disposal   1
Noxious Weed Control   2
Nuisances   3
Illicit Discharge Detection And Elimination   4
Animals   5
CHAPTER 1
REFUSE DISPOSAL
SECTION:
7-1-1: Definitions
7-1-2: Scavenger Licenses Required; Classifications, Fees
7-1-3: Accumulation Of Refuse
7-1-4: Composting And Compost Piles
7-1-5: Storing Or Placing Garbage, Refuse, Recyclables, Compostable Materials,
Etc., On The Parkway For Scavenger Removal
7-1-6: Discarding Refuse And Compostable Material In Streets, Etc., Prohibited
7-1-7: Depositing Refuse, Garbage, Junk, Or Compostable Materials On Property
Of Another
7-1-8: Theft Or Damage Of Recycling Containers, Refuse Stickers And Yard Waste
Tags Or Stickers; Removal Of Items From Recycling Containers
7-1-9: Burning Of Waste Products Allowed And Prohibited
7-1-10: Penalties
7-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this Section:
COMPOSTABLE MATERIAL/YARD WASTE: Grass, garden clippings, brush, leaves, tree
clippings, and other materials accumulated as the result of the maintenance of
lawns, shrubbery, vines, trees and similar organic material capable of
decomposing into a humus- like product.
GARBAGE, RUBBISH, REFUSE, OR JUNK: All household and kitchen wastes, such as
discarded food or food residues and items necessarily used for wrapping same,
aluminum or tin cans, bottles and glass, books, paper and newspapers, boxes,
cartons, barrels, wood, bedding, metals, ashes, packing materials, furniture,
appliances (including, but not limited to, ranges, televisions, microwaves,
refrigerators, dishwashers, washing machines, dryers, room air conditioners,
freezers, hot water heaters), automobile parts, tires and wheels, small amounts
of sod, earth and rocks, home remodeling and repair construction materials.
RECYCLABLES: Recyclable materials include, but are not limited to, aluminum
cans, plastic milk and water jugs, newspapers, glass bottles and containers.
The City may, from time to time, designate other household refuse items as
recyclable materials based upon market conditions and available recycling
technology. (Ord. 0-37-90, 6-18-1990)
7-1-2: SCAVENGER LICENSES REQUIRED; CLASSIFICATIONS, FEES:
   (A)   No person shall engage in the scavenger business within the City
without first obtaining a license therefor from the City Clerk. The scavenger
business for which such a license is required includes the collection and
disposal of garbage, recyclables and compostable material from all premises
within the City, whether the activity therein is residential, commercial,
manufacturing or other, whether under contract with the City or with the person
in control of any premises or under contract with a lessor; however, such
license shall not be required for collection and disposal of liquid or other
industrial wastes for which specialized equipment or handling is necessary.
   (B)   For purposes of this Section, scavenger licenses shall be, and are
hereby divided, into the following classes:
      1.   Class "A" licenses, which shall authorize the scavenger to collect
garbage, recyclables and compostable materials from all premises within the
City. The number of licenses authorized under this classification shall not
exceed one in number.
      2.   Class "B" licenses, which may authorize the scavenger to collect
garbage, recyclables and compostable materials from premises within the City,
exclusive of single family dwellings and attached single family dwellings as
defined in the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance of the City. The number of
licenses authorized under this classification shall not exceed five (5) in
number.
   (C)   The City reserves the right to give the holder of a Class A license a
sole and exclusive franchise to provide for the residential collection of
refuse, recyclables, landscaping waste and compostable materials for all
residential units utilizing curbside pickup within the corporate limits of the
City.
   (D)   The license fee for a scavenger license shall be three hundred dollars
($300.00) per year. (Ord. 0-37-90, 6-18-1990)
7-1-3: ACCUMULATION OF REFUSE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit within the City any piles of
garbage, rubbish, junk, manure, compostable materials or combustible materials
with the exception of that which may be placed in a compost pile, unless in
accordance with this chapter. (Ord. 0-37-90, 6-18-1990)
7-1-4: COMPOSTING AND COMPOST PILES:
Compostable materials may be placed in such a way as not to allow them to be
wind blown. The depositing of garbage, pet waste, meat scraps or other
materials that may attract animals or vermin to the compost pile or which may
provide an obnoxious odor, is prohibited. A compost pile shall not be located
less than twenty five feet (25') from any neighboring dwelling unit, less than
ten feet (10') from the dwelling on whose property the compost pile is located,
less than six feet (6') from any rear or side lot line, or within any required
front yard, as defined in the comprehensive zoning ordinance of the City. In no
event shall a compost pile be located in any side or rear yard drainage or
utility easement. A compost pile shall not exceed six feet (6') in height,
fifteen feet (15') in side length, or one hundred (100) square feet in total
ground or base area. (Ord. 0-37-90, 6-18-1990)
7-1-5: STORING OR PLACING GARBAGE, REFUSE, RECYCLABLES, COMPOSTABLE MATERIALS,
ETC., ON THE PARKWAY FOR SCAVENGER REMOVAL:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, garbage, refuse, recyclables,
compostable materials and similar items may be placed on parkways in the City
only to facilitate their removal by licensed scavengers, and only if the
following provisions are observed by the person placing or causing to be placed
on the parkways items of refuse or compostable materials:
   (A)   Any refuse, recyclables, or compostable materials placed on the
parkway shall be stored in containers or otherwise appropriately secured to
ensure that debris or refuse is not scattered by weather, animals, or other
causes. (Ord. 0-37-90, 6-18-1990)
   (B)   Refuse, recyclables or compostable materials stored in approved
containers such as kraft bags, may be placed on the parkway twenty four (24)
hours before the scheduled scavenger service and containers used to store these
items shall be removed from the parkway twenty four (24) hours after said
scavenger service. It shall be unlawful to place such containers anywhere
between the front of the main building, or the side when facing the street, and
the street, except during the times specified hereinabove. City-approved
containers may be stored between the front of the main building and the street,
or between the side of the building and the street when the side of the
building is facing the street. The make and model of the approved containers
are on file in the City's Building Department. (Ord. 0-10-19, 3-4-2019)
7-1-6: DISCARDING REFUSE AND COMPOSTABLE MATERIAL IN STREETS, ETC., PROHIBITED:
Except as provided in section
7-1-5 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person to discard or leave
or cause to be discarded or left in or on any street, sewer, sidewalk, alley or
public land owned by the City, any material, object or refuse of any kind,
including, without limitation, dirt, grass, leaves and brush. (Ord. 0-37-90, 6-
18-1990)
7-1-7: DEPOSITING REFUSE, GARBAGE, JUNK, OR COMPOSTABLE MATERIALS ON PROPERTY
OF ANOTHER:
No person shall deposit, or cause to be deposited, refuse, garbage, junk or
compostable materials on the property of another, including deposit inside
containers, dumpsters, trash cans or barrels intended for the deposit of those
items by occupants of the property. (Ord. 0-37-90, 6-18-1990)
7-1-8: THEFT OR DAMAGE OF RECYCLING CONTAINERS, REFUSE STICKERS AND YARD WASTE
TAGS OR STICKERS; REMOVAL OF ITEMS FROM RECYCLING CONTAINERS:
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, the following words and phrases
shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   CITY RECYCLING CONTAINERS: Eighteen (18) gallon blue plastic containers,
stamped with the City name and issued by the City to its residents for the
purpose of holding recyclable items.
   OWNER: A City resident to whom a City recycling container has been issued by
the City, or a City resident who has purchased a preprinted refuse sticker or
yard waste tag or sticker.
   REFUSE STICKER: A preprinted sticker which evidences advance payment for the
collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish, refuse and junk.
   YARD WASTE TAG OR STICKER: A preprinted tag or sticker which evidences
advance payment for the collection and disposal of compostable materials.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a scavenger licensed
under Section
7-1-2 of this Chapter, to remove any items in or adjacent to City recycling
containers, including, but not limited to, newspapers, aluminum cans, plastic
jugs and glass bottles or containers.
   (C)   The theft of any City recycling container, refuse sticker or yard
waste tag or sticker, shall be unlawful, and any person, other than the owner,
violates this provision when he knowingly:
      1.   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over a City recycling
container, refuse sticker, or yard waste tag or sticker; or
      2.   Obtains, by deception, control over a City recycling container,
refuse sticker, or yard waste tag or sticker; or
      3.   Obtains, by threat, control over a City recycling container, refuse
sticker, or yard waste tag or sticker; or
      4.   Obtains control of a stolen City recycling container, refuse sticker
or yard waste tag or sticker, knowing the City recycling container, refuse
sticker, or yard waste tag or sticker to have been stolen by another under such
circumstances as would reasonably induce such person to believe that the
property was stolen; and
         (a)   Intends to permanently deprive the owner of the use or benefit
of the City recycling container, refuse sticker, or yard waste tag or sticker;
or
         (b)   Knowingly uses, conceals, or abandons the City recycling
container, refuse sticker, or yard waste tag or sticker in such manner as to
permanently deprive the owner of such use or benefit; or
         (c)   Uses, conceals, or abandons the City recycling container, refuse
sticker, or yard waste tag or sticker, knowing such use, concealment or
abandonment will probably permanently deprive the owner of such use or benefit.
   (D)   No person shall damage, by any means, a City recycling container,
without the consent of the City. (Ord. 0-37-90, 6-18-1990)
7-1-9: BURNING OF WASTE PRODUCTS ALLOWED AND PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn garbage, rubbish or
natural refuse (natural refuse includes, but is not limited to, leaves and
other yard waste) anywhere within the City; provided, however, that nothing in
this Section shall prohibit the burning of charcoal in charcoal grills or the
burning of logs, nontreated wood or wood products in either an indoor
fireplace, or an outdoor fireplace (a structure which partially encloses a fire
to contain its size). The burning of treated wood in indoor or outdoor
fireplaces is strictly prohibited. The use of outdoor fireplaces shall be
permitted only during the following hours: eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight, Monday through Thursday; and eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. to one o'clock (1:00) A.M., Friday through Sunday. (Ord. 0-27-98, 12-7-
1998)
   (B)   The following types of fires are permitted as an exception to the
prohibitions of subsection (A) of this Section: fires in conjunction with
holidays and special occasions, set and attended by personnel knowledgeable in
firefighting techniques, fire containment and the use of firefighting
equipment. This type of fire, when ignited in the presence of large crowds,
shall be allowed only by special permit issued by the City Council. (Ord. 0-37-
90, 6-18-1990)
7-1-10: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter, except for
subsection
7-1-8(C) of this Chapter, shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each such offense.
Each day that a violation is allowed to exist shall constitute a separate
offense. In addition, any licensee found by the City, after appropriate
hearing, to be in violation of the terms of this Chapter, shall be subject to
license revocation.
Any person violating any provision of subsection
7-1-8(C) of this Chapter shall, upon a judicial finding of such violation, be
fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 0-45-91, 7-15-1991)
CHAPTER 2
NOXIOUS WEED CONTROL
SECTION:
7-2-1: Title
7-2-2: Purpose
7-2-3: Noxious Weeds Prohibited
7-2-4: Notice Of Removal
7-2-5: Abatement
7-2-6: Lien; Notice Of Lien
7-2-7: Foreclosure Of Lien
7-2-8: Penalty
7-2-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as the WEED ORDINANCE. (1978 Code)
7-2-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to better control the growth of various weeds
and grasses on private property for the health, safety and welfare of the
residents of the City. (1978 Code)
7-2-3: NOXIOUS WEEDS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, grasses or plants other
than trees, bushes, flowers, crops, garden plants or other ornamental plants to
grow to a height exceeding eight inches (8") anywhere in the City. Any such
weeds or plants exceeding such height are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 0-06-77, 2-7-1977; amd. 1978 Code; Ord. 0-35-92, 6-15-1992)
7-2-4: NOTICE OF REMOVAL:
It shall be the duty of the Supervisor of the Public Works Department to serve
or cause to be served a notice upon the owner or occupant of any premises on
which weeds or plants are permitted to grow in violation of the provisions of
this Chapter, and to demand the abatement of the nuisance within seven (7)
days. (Ord. 0-06-77, 2-7-1977; amd. 1978 Code; Ord. 0-35-92, 6-15-1992)
7-2-5: ABATEMENT:
If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within seven (7) days the
Supervisor of the Public Works Department may proceed to abate such nuisance,
keeping an account of the expense of the abatement, and such expense shall be
charged and paid by such owner or occupant. (Ord. 0-06-77, 2-7-1977; amd. 1978
Code; Ord. 0-35-92, 6-15-1992)
7-2-6: LIEN; NOTICE OF LIEN:
   (A)   Notice Of Lien: If the Supervisor of the Public Works Department
causes weeds to be cut by the City or by someone directed to cut them on behalf
of the City, the City or the person performing the service by authority of the
City, in its or his own name, may file, within sixty (60) days after such cost
and expense of removal is incurred, a notice of lien in the office of the
Recorder of Deeds in DuPage County or in the office of the Registrar of Titles
in DuPage County if the real estate affected is registered under the Torrens
System.
   (B)   Contents Of Notice: The notice of lien shall consist of a sworn
statement setting out:
      1.   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof,
      2.   The amount of money representing the cost and the expense incurred
or payable for the service, and
      3.   The date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by the
City.
   (C)   Mailing Of Notice: Notice of such lien claim shall be mailed to the
owner of the premises if his address is known.
   (D)   Foreclosure Rights Not Affected: The failure of the owner to receive
such notice shall not affect the right to foreclose the lien for such costs of
removal as provided in this Section.
   (E)   Payment Of Cost; Release Of Lien: Upon payment of the cost and expense
after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released by the City or
person in whose name the lien has been filed and the release shall be filed of
record in the same manner as filing notice of the said lien. (Ord. 0-06-77, 2-
7-1977; amd. 1978 Code)
7-2-7: FORECLOSURE OF LIEN:
Property subject to a lien for unpaid weed removal charges shall be sold for
nonpayment of the same and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied to pay
the charges, after deducting the costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be in equity in the name of the City.
The City Council may authorize the City Attorney to institute such proceedings
in the name of the City, in any court having jurisdiction over such matter
against any property for which such bill has remained unpaid for a period of
three (3) years in a total sum of at least one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
after it has been rendered. (Ord. 0-06-77, 2-7-1977; amd. 1978 Code)
7-2-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be fined not
less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than three hundred dollars ($300.00).
Each day that a violation is allowed to exist shall constitute a separate
offense. (Ord. 0-06-77, 2-7-1977; amd. 1978 Code)
CHAPTER 3
NUISANCES 1
SECTION:
7-3-1: Definition; Nuisances Prohibited
7-3-2: Notice For Abatement
7-3-3: Abatement
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section
  3-1-9 of this Code.
7-3-1: DEFINITION; NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
The following acts, conduct and conditions are hereby declared and defined to
be nuisances, and when committed, performed or permitted to exist by any person
within the territorial limits of the City, are hereby declared to be unlawful
and prohibited:
   (A)   Any act or offense which is a nuisance according to the Common Law of
the State of Illinois or declared or defined to be a nuisance by the ordinances
of the City. In addition, the officials of the Municipality shall be authorized
to abate any nuisance which while not specifically defined within this Chapter
shall constitute the unreasonable, unwarrantable, or unlawful use by a person
of property real or personal or from his own improper, indecent or unlawful
personal conduct which works an obstruction or injury to a right of another, or
of the public, and produces such material annoyance, inconvenience, discomfort,
or hurt that the law will presume an actionable nuisance. Nuisances may be
abated which are public or which are both public or private in nature.
   (B)   To cause or suffer the carcass of any animal or any offal, filth or
noisome substance to be collected, deposited or to remain in any place under
his ownership or control to the prejudice of others.
   (C)   To throw or deposit any offal or other offensive matter, or the
carcass of any dead animal in any watercourse, lake, pond, spring, well or
common sewer, street or public highway.
   (D)   To corrupt or render unwholesome or impure the water of any spring,
river, stream, pond or lake, to the injury or prejudice of others.
   (E)   To obstruct or encroach upon public highways, private ways, streets,
alleys, commons, landing places, and ways to burying places.
   (F)   To erect, continue or use any building or other place for the exercise
of any trade, employment or manufacture, which, by occasioning noxious
exhalations, offensive smells or otherwise, is offensive or dangerous to the
health of individuals, or of the public.
   (G)   To advertise wares or occupation by painting notices of the same on,
or affixing them to, fences, walls, windows, building exteriors, utility poles,
or on hydrants, other public or private property, or on rocks or other natural
objects, without the consent of the owner, or if in the highway or other public
place, without permission of the proper authorities.
   (H)   To harass, intimidate or threaten any person who is about to sell or
lease or has sold or leased a residence or other real property or is about to
buy or lease or has bought or leased a residence or other real property, when
the harassment, intimidation or threat relates to a person's attempt to sell,
buy or lease a residence, or other real property, or refers to a person's sale,
purchase or lease of a residence or other real property.
   (I)   To dump, abandon, deposit, dismantle or burn upon any public property
or right of way, highway, park, street or parkway anywhere in the City, any
trash, garbage, ashes, junk, junked or wrecked motor vehicles or parts thereof,
or miscellaneous waste 1 .
   (J)   To store, keep, or maintain outside of a closed building, any junk,
parts, machinery or equipment not in an operable condition, or motor vehicle
not in an operable condition, where such inoperable motor vehicle is an actual
danger or detriment to life, safety, health or peaceful enjoyment of the
property of surrounding land owners, provided, however, that this provision
shall not apply to a properly licensed junkyard or other permitted outdoor
storage use which is in full compliance with all of the ordinances of the City
governing the same 2 .
   (K)   To own, maintain or keep a dwelling unit unfit for human habitation,
or dangerous or detrimental to life, safety or health because of lack of
repair, defects in the plumbing system, lighting or ventilation, the existence
of contagious diseases or unsanitary conditions likely to cause sickness among
persons residing in said premises or residing in proximity thereof.
   (L)   To store or place any materials in a manner which may harbor rats.
   (M)   To produce or permit to be produced, whether on public or private
property, any offensive noise to the disturbance of the peace or quiet of any
person residing in the vicinity. (Ord. 0-07-77, 2-7-1977)
   (N)   To defecate or urinate in public view, in any area accessible to the
public, or on private property. "An area generally accessible to the public"
shall include, but shall not be limited to, any street, road or highway, any
public land or public parking area, and any property used as a school, church,
service station, shopping area or place of public assembly. This section shall
not apply to defecation or urination by any person in any toilet or urinal.
(Ord. 0-33-82, 9-7-1982)
   (O)   To so maintain any animal or animals within the City as to create or
constitute a nuisance.
   (P)   To harbor or keep any animal, which disturbs the peace by loud noises
at any time of the day or night.
   (Q)   To adversely affect the health, welfare and safety of individuals or
of the public with any thing, act, occupation or use of property, premises,
equipment or structure. (Ord. 0-23-05, 9-19-2005)
   (R)   To maintain nuisance trees on private property defined as trees that
are dead or substantially dead; that are diseased with dutch elm, oak wilt,
emerald ash borer, gypsy moth, asian long horn beetle, or other infectious
diseases that are not being successfully treated as determined by the City
Arborist; or have grown over to neighbor's property or public property and are
pushing or rubbing structures or blocking view or access for pedestrian and
vehicular safety. (Ord. 0-17-19, 5-6-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section
  7-1-3 of this Chapter and Title 8, Chapter 6 of this Code.
2 2. See also Section
  3-1-16 and Title 8, Chapter 6 of this Code.
7-3-2: NOTICE FOR ABATEMENT:
Except where otherwise provided by the ordinances of the City, any officer of
the City possessing police powers may serve or cause to be served a notice, in
writing, upon the owner, agent, occupant or person in possession, charge or
control of any lot, building or premises or item of personalty in or upon which
any nuisance may be found, or who may be the owner or cause of any nuisance,
requiring them, or either or both of them, to abate the same within a specified
reasonable time, in such manner as the notice shall direct. (Ord. 0-07-77, 2-7-
1977)
7-3-3: ABATEMENT:
   (A)   Nonsummary Abatement: If the person so served and notified does not
abate the nuisance within the specified reasonable time, the Corporate
Authorities may proceed to abate the nuisance in any or all manners allowable
by law, including, without limiting the generality thereof, the following:
      1.   Seeking to impose a monetary penalty as defined by section
1-4-1 of this Code by instituting an ordinance enforcement action.
      2.   Seeking to enjoin the continuation of the nuisance by the filing of
a lawsuit in a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   Summary Abatement: Whenever, in the opinion of an officer of the City
possessing police powers, the maintenance or continuation of a nuisance creates
an imminent threat of serious injury to persons or serious damage to person or
real property, or if the nuisance can be abated summarily without or with only
minor damage to the items or premises which are creating the nuisance, and the
continuation of the nuisance poses a substantial threat of injury to persons or
property or a substantial interference with the quiet enjoyment of life
normally present in the community, such officer shall proceed to abate such
nuisance; provided, further, that whenever the owner, occupant, agent or person
in possession, charge, or control of the real or personal property which has
become a nuisance is unknown or cannot readily be found, the Municipal officer
with police power may proceed to abate such nuisance without notice. Where the
abatement of the nuisance requires continuing acts by the Corporate Authorities
beyond the initial summary abatement and any other additional emergency
abatements, it shall seek abatement of such nuisance on a permanent basis
through judicial process as soon as reasonably possible. (Ord. 0-07-77, 2-7-
1977)
CHAPTER 4
ILLICIT DISCHARGE DETECTION AND ELIMINATION
SECTION:
7-4-1: Adoption By Reference
7-4-2: Notice Of Full Participation
7-4-3: Deletions, Modifications And Amendments
7-4-1: ADOPTION BY REFERENCE:
There is hereby adopted, for the purpose of establishing regulations and
standards for the detection and elimination of illicit discharges into the
storm drainage system throughout the city the "DuPage County illicit discharge
detection and elimination ordinance" (the "county ordinance") in effect on May
26, 2009, as the illicit discharge detection elimination ordinance of the city,
as if fully set forth in this chapter, and each and all of the regulations
therein, including any and all amendments that may, from time to time, be
adopted by the county of DuPage. Copies thereof shall be made available in the
department of municipal services. (Ord. 0-35-09, 12-7-2009)
7-4-2: NOTICE OF FULL PARTICIPATION:
This chapter shall serve as notice that the city has chosen to be a "full
participant" as provided for within section 16-31(1) of the county ordinance
with the county of DuPage for purposes of the enforcement of the county
ordinance within the city's territorial jurisdiction. (Ord. 0-35-09, 12-7-2009)
7-4-3: DELETIONS, MODIFICATIONS AND AMENDMENTS:
The following deletions, modifications and amendments to the county ordinance
shall be effective and applicable in the city:
Section 16-12 (Definitions) is amended by:
   Deleting the definition for committee in its entirety and replacing it with
the words "the stormwater oversight committee of the city"
   Deleting the definition of department in its entirety and replacing it with
the words "the city's department of municipal services"
   Deleting the definition of director in its entirety and replacing it with
the words "the city's director of municipal services"
   Adding the definition of city to the list of definitions; "City. The city Of
Darien, Illinois"
Section 16-31 (Participating Communities) is amended by:
   Deleting the word "department" in paragraphs 1b, 1c, and 1e and replacing it
with the words "DuPage County stormwater management division"
Section 16-33 (Duties Of Director) is amended by:
   Deleting the word "communities" in paragraph 3 and replacing it with the
words "DuPage County stormwater management committee"
Section 16-34 (Representative Capacity) is amended by:
   Deleting the word "county" and replacing it with the word "city"
Section 16-42 (Prohibitions Of Illicit Connections) is amended by:
   Deleting the word "department" in the last sentence of paragraph 5, and
replacing it with the words "DuPage County stormwater management division"
Section 16-50 (Submission Of Notice Of Intent (NOI) To The Department) is
amended by:
   Deleting the word "department" in paragraphs 1, 2, and 3, and replacing it
with the words "DuPage County stormwater management division"
Section 16-56 (Compliance Monitoring) is amended by:
   Deleting the word "department" in paragraph 1b and replacing it with the
words "DuPage County stormwater management division"
Section 16-62 (Notice To Correct Violations: Director May Take Action) is
amended by:
   Deleting the words "county of DuPage" in paragraph 2 and replacing it with
the words "city of Darien"
Section 16-86 (Right Of Appeal) is amended by:
   Deleting the words without substitution "stormwater committee of the DuPage
County board" in paragraph 1 and replacing it with the word "committee"
   Deleting the words "county board" from paragraphs 3 and 4 and replacing it
with the words "city council".
(Ord. 0-35-09, 12-7-2009)
CHAPTER 5
ANIMALS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Chickens
7-5-2: Hobby Beekeeping
7-5-1: CHICKENS:
   (A)   Definitions:
 
CHICKEN(S): The common domestic fowl.
            A coop, building, pen or other enclosure, with or without an
COOP:       enclosed pen or hen yard, that is designed, constructed and
            maintained to confine fowl within the coop and to prevent access by
            predators and trespassers.
FOWL:       Any domesticated egg-laying chicken hen and shall exclude all
            roosters and chicken hens that have ceased laying eggs.
HEN:        A female chicken.
POULTRY:    Domestic fowl, such as chickens, turkeys, ducks, and geese.
ROOSTER:    A male chicken.
 
   (B)   Requirements; Permits, Fees And Penalties:
      1.   The raising/keeping of hens shall be permitted on all single-family
detached single-family residential zoning lots containing a minimum of six
thousand (6,000) square feet as an accessory use.
      2.   A maximum of six (6) hens shall be permitted.
      3.   All hens shall be kept within a coop consisting of a covered
enclosure/structure with an attached covered/enclosed outdoor area to prevent
hens from encroaching onto neighboring properties.
      4.   An outdoor area a minimum of ten (10) square feet per hen will be
required and a maximum of one hundred fifty (150) total square feet will be
permitted for both the covered enclosure/structure and outdoor area. The total
height of a coop may not exceed seven feet (7').
      5.   All enclosures/structures shall be located a minimum of twenty feet
(20') from all lot lines.
      6.   All hens and enclosures/structures shall be kept/located in the rear
yard only.
      7.   All areas where hens are kept shall be clean and well maintained on
a daily basis, with little to no accumulation of waste. In addition, all areas
where hens are kept shall not produce or cause odors that are detectable on
adjacent properties. All feed shall be kept in a sealed metal container. All
electrical appurtenances shall be UL listed and clearly labeled.
      8.   Perimeter fencing six foot (6') high, privacy/solid fencing shall be
required around the entire rear yard.
      9.   Humane conditions are to be maintained year round.
      10.   Roosters are prohibited.
      11.   Slaughtering is prohibited.
      12.   No other poultry, including but not limited to geese, ducks and
turkeys shall be kept on the property.
      13.   An initial hen permit shall be required for approval of hens,
coops, and required fencing. Permit application shall be authorized by owner of
property. Permit authorizes City staff to inspect property for compliance when
deemed necessary. Permit approval is required prior to obtaining hens. The
perimeter fence required by subsection (B)8 shall be installed prior to
construction of the coop.
      14.   A hen permit issued by the City with a one-time fee of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) shall be required. A renewal permit/registration shall be
required each year thereafter, with an additional fee of ten dollars ($10.00).
      15.   A hen permit issued under this article shall be revoked upon the
commission of three (3) violations within a period of twelve (12) months. If
the permit is revoked, the property shall not be eligible for a permit for one
year after revocation. Any enclosure/structure shall be required to be removed
within fifteen (15) days of revocation.
      16.   Sales of egg(s) or hen(s) or anything related to chicken keeping is
not allowed.
      17.   On or prior to May 1, 2021 all nonconforming properties must be
brought into conformance with the keeping of hens regulations of this article.
On or prior to March 1, 2021 residents with chickens and no existing privacy
fence, will be required to show proof of contract for privacy fence. This
period is for all purposes deemed an appropriate amortization period for each
and every nonconforming property presently located within the corporate limits
of the City or hereinafter located within the City by reason of annexation into
the City of the lot or parcel on which the uses are located.
   (C)   Relief From Certain Requirements:
      1.   A party may obtain relief from one (1) or more of the requirements
of Sections
7-5-1(B)(4) and (5) if the City Council determines:
         (a)   That there are practical difficulties preventing the applicant
from complying with such requirement(s). Additional expense associated with
complying with Sections
7-5-1(B)(4) and (5) shall not be considered a practical difficulty justifying
relief; and
         (b)   Granting the relief will not interfere with nearby owners' use
and enjoyment of their properties.
         (c)   The owner would suffer substantial difficulty or hardship and
not mere inconvenience or a decrease in financial gain if the relief is not
granted.
         (d)   There is a feature of the property such as slope or shape or
change made to the property, which does not exist on neighboring properties,
which makes it unreasonable for the owner to make the proposed improvement in
compliance with this title.
         (e)   The relief, if granted, will not cause a substantial difficulty,
undue hardship, unreasonable burden, or loss of value to the neighboring
properties.
         (f)   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances.
      2.   Any party seeking such relief shall file a request in writing,
setting forth the relief requested and the basis for the request. If
practicable, the request should include a drawing or photograph of the proposed
improvement. No particular form is required. If the applicant is a tenant, the
owner of the property must consent to the request in writing.
      3.   The matter will be referred to the Municipal Services Committee for
review and recommendation to the City Council.
      4.   Upon receipt of the request, City staff will notify all property
owners within one hundred twenty five feet (125‘) of the property for which
relief is sought, as measured property line to property line, of the date that
the request will be considered by the Committee. The notification shall be
either by personal delivery or first class mail and shall include a copy of the
request.
      5.   Following receipt of the Committee's recommendation, the Council
will then by motion either grant the request (with or without conditions) or
deny the request. The decision of the Council is final.
      6.   A party who had an operational coop and perimeter fencing or
vegetation screening around the entire rear yard as of October 5, 2020 is also
eligible to seek relief from Section
7-5-1(B)(8). (Ord. 0-19-20, 10-5-2020; amd. Ord. O-21-20, 11-2-2020)
7-5-2: HOBBY BEEKEEPING:
   (A)   Definitions:
APIARY:               A place where one or more bee colonies are kept.
BEE:                  Any stage of the common domestic honey bee, Apis
                      mellifera species.
BEEKEEPER:            A person who owns or has charge of one or more colonies
                      of bees.
                      Anything used in the operation of an apiary, including,
BEEKEEPING EQUIPMENT: but not limited to, hive bodies, supers, frames, top and
                      bottom boards and extractors.
COLONY (COLONIES):    A hive and its equipment and appurtenances, including
                      bees, comb, honey, pollen and brood.
FLYWAY BARRIER:       Barrier that raises the flight path of bees as they come
                      and go from a hive.
HIVE:                 A structure intended for the housing of a bee colony.
HOBBY BEEKEEPING:     The keeping of bees subject to the restrictions set forth
                      in this chapter.
NUCLEUS COLONY:       A small quantity of bees with a queen housed in a smaller
                      than usual hive box designed for a particular purpose.
 
   (B)   Requirements; Permits, Fees And Penalties:
      1.   Bees and bee hives shall be permitted on residential zoning lots
containing a minimum of ten thousand (10,000) square feet as an accessory use.
      2.   A maximum of two (2) hives/colonies shall be permitted on properties
zoned and occupied for single-family residential uses.
      3.   The hive(s) shall be located only in the rear yard and a minimum of
fifteen feet (15') from all lot lines.
      4.   A flyway barrier at least five feet (5') in height, consisting of a
solid fence, tall bushes, the side of your garage or shed, or anything else
that forces the bees to immediately fly up into the air away from people
adjacent to the beekeeping hives.
      5.   Prominent signage warning of the presence of bees shall be required
on the property (i.e., gate).
      6.   Each hive shall not exceed five feet (5') in height, nor shall the
land area designated for the hives exceed thirty (30) square feet in total.
      7.   A source of water shall be available at all times on the property
during the beehive's active months (March - November). Humane conditions are to
be maintained year round.
      8.   All areas where beehives are kept shall be clean and well maintained
with no accumulation of bee combs, wax, etc., around the site.
      9.   An initial building-registration permit shall be required for all
hives and an inspection/approval is required prior to obtaining a beekeeping
permit.
      10.   A beekeeping permit issued by the City with a one-time fee of
twenty five dollars ($25.00) shall be required. A renewal permit shall be
required each year thereafter, with no additional fee or building inspection
required.
      11.   All hives are required to register and maintain requirements with
the Illinois Department of Agriculture as required.
      12.   Sales of honey or anything related to beekeeping are not allowed.
      13.   On or prior to May 1, 2021 all nonconforming properties must be
brought into conformance with the hobby beekeeping regulations of this article.
This period is for all purposes deemed an appropriate amortization period for
each and every nonconforming property presently located within the corporate
limits of the City or hereinafter located within the City by reason of
annexation into the City of the lot or parcel on which the uses are located.
(Ord. 0-18-20, 10-5-2020)
TITLE 8
POLICE REGULATIONS
Police Department   1
Auxiliary Police   2
Dogs And Cats   3
Dangerous Animals   4
Trespasses   5
Inoperable Motor Vehicles   6
Cannabis Regulations   7
Automatic Amusement Devices   8
Solicitation Of Contributions   9
Miscellaneous Violations   10
Theft   11
Curfew   12
Sale Of Tobacco Products To Minors   13
Damage To Property   14
Disorderly Conduct   15
Parental Responsibility   16
Electronic Paging Devices Or Cellular Telecommunications Devices On School
Property   17
Cable Television Rate Regulation   18
Alarms   19
Drug Paraphernalia   20
Use Of Laser Pointers   21
Fireworks   22
Crime Free Residential Housing Requirements   23
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
8-1-1: Creation Of Department
8-1-2: Office Of Chief Of Police
8-1-3: Oath Of Office
8-1-4: Appointments, Promotions And Discharges
8-1-5: Duties Of Department (Rep. by Ord. 0-28-03, 7-7-2003)
8-1-6: Powers Of Police
8-1-7: Rules And Regulations Of Department
8-1-8: Duty To Aid Police
8-1-9: Offenses Against Police
8-1-10: Penalty
8-1-1: CREATION OF DEPARTMENT:
There is hereby created a Police Department of the City. The Police Department
shall consist of the following organizational structure:
   (A) Chief of Police.
   (B)   Deputy chief positions shall be an exempt rank immediately below that
of the chief. Deputy Chief positions shall be limited to no more than two (2)
positions. (65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-4) Deputy chiefs shall be appointed by the chief
of police. The chief of police may appoint up to two (2) qualified deputy
chiefs of police either from within or outside of the Darien Police Department.
The deputy chief shall serve at the discretion of the chief and if removed from
that position shall revert to the rank he or she held immediately prior to his
or her appointment to the deputy chief position, if applicable.
   (C)   Such number of Sergeants and patrolmen as are approved by the City
Council from time to time. (Ord. 0-15-15, 5-4-2015; amd. Ord. 0-21-19, 8-5-
2019; Ord. O-32-25, 6-2-2025)
8-1-2: OFFICE OF CHIEF OF POLICE:
There is hereby created the Office of Police Chief. The Police Chief shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council;
provided, that if the person appointed Chief was at the time of such promotion
a member of the department, he shall retain his status and rank while serving
as Chief and shall revert to such status and rank when his term as Chief has
ended, providing that no criminal charges preclude his assuming these duties.
The Mayor has the authority to appoint and discharge the Chief of Police, with
the advice and consent of the City Council 1 . (Ord. 0-18-70, 7-20-1970; amd.
1978 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1 - 4.
8-1-3: OATH OF OFFICE:
The Chief of Police and all regular and special policemen shall, before
entering upon their duties, take and subscribe to an oath to faithfully and
impartially discharge the duties of their position as fixed by ordinance, in
addition to the requirements of the oath administered to officers of the City.
(Ord. 0-18-70, 7-20-1970; amd. 1978 Code)
8-1-4: APPOINTMENTS, PROMOTIONS AND DISCHARGES:
(A)   Appointments and Promotions: Appointments to and promotions within the
police department, other than appointment to the offices of chief of police and
deputy chief, shall be made by the board of fire and police commissioners2 in
the manner provided by law.
(B)   Discharges: No nonprobationary policeman shall be discharged from the
department except after a hearing on charges before the Board of Fire and
Police Commissioners, as provided by law. Probationary policemen may be removed
by the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners at any time during their one year
probationary period. The board may seek the recommendation of the Chief of
Police regarding the performance of the probationary officer. No hearing need
be held prior to such dismissal. (Ord. 0-18-70, 7-20-1970; amd. 1978 Code; Ord.
0-21-19, 8-5-2019; Ord. O-32-25, 6-2-2025)
8-1-5: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT:
(Rep. by Ord. 0-28-03, 7-7-2003)
8-1-6: POWERS OF POLICE:
The members of the police force of the City shall have power and authority, and
it shall be their duty within the City and outside of same, when necessary and
lawful, to serve and execute warrants and other process for the apprehension
and commitment of persons charged with a violation of any of the City
ordinances or any crime or misdemeanor or offense against the laws of the City
or of the State, or held for examination or trial, or taken in execution for
the commission of any crime or misdemeanor or violation of any law or ordinance
of this City; and they shall have the power and authority, and it shall be
their duty, to serve and execute any civil process issued on behalf of the City
by any court of proper jurisdiction; and while serving or executing or
assisting in the service or execution of any such warrant or process, they
shall be vested with and have all the powers and authority conferred on
constables at common law and by the laws of this State.
They shall have the power, and it shall be their duty, to arrest all persons in
the City who they have reasonable grounds to believe have violated any law or
ordinance, or aiding or abetting in such violations, and to cause such persons
to appear before a court of proper jurisdiction, to be dealt with according to
law. (Ord. 0-18-70, 7-20-1970; amd. 1978 Code)
8-1-7: RULES AND REGULATIONS OF DEPARTMENT:
The Chief of Police may make or prescribe such rules and regulations for the
guidance of the members of the department as he shall see fit, and such rules
shall be binding on such members. The members of the department shall also
comply with special or emergency rules, regulations or orders of supervisory
personnel within the department. The Chief of Police shall likewise be bound by
department rules. (Ord. 0-26-95, 8-7-1995)
   (A)   Conduct Of Members: It shall be the duty of every member of the Police
Department, including the Chief of Police, to conduct himself in a proper and
law abiding manner and to avoid the use of unnecessary force. (Ord. 0-18-70, 7-
20-1970; amd. 1978 Code)
   (B)   Badge Of Police Officers: Every member of the Police Department,
unless serving in an undercover position, shall wear a suitable badge to be
furnished by the City.
   (C)   Witness Fees: Every member of the Police Department shall appear as a
witness whenever this is necessary in the prosecution for a violation of a City
ordinance or a State or Federal law. However, no such member shall accept any
witness fee for such services in any action or suit to which the City is a
party. (Ord. 0-21-19, 8-5-2019)
8-1-8: DUTY TO AID POLICE:
It shall be the duty of any person in the City, when called upon by any member
of the Police Department, to promptly aid and assist him in the execution of
his duties. (Ord. 0-18-70, 7-20-1970; amd. 1978 Code)
8-1-9: OFFENSES AGAINST POLICE:
   (A)   Resisting An Officer: No person shall resist any policeman or
constable in the discharge of his duty, nor shall any person in any manner
interfere with, hinder or prevent said policeman from discharging his duty as
said officer, nor shall said person offer or attempt to so do. No person shall
in any way assist any other person in custody of any policeman or constable to
escape or to attempt to escape from such custody.
   (B)   Assuming To Act As Policeman: No person, other than a member of the
Police Department, shall assume to act as a policeman in any capacity within
the City.
   (C)   Impersonating A Policeman; Wearing Badge Or Uniform: No person shall
impersonate any of the members of the Police Department or maliciously or with
intent to deceive, use or imitate any of the signs, signals or devices adopted
and used by the Police Department, or wear in public the uniform adopted as the
police uniform, after having been removed or suspended therefrom. (Ord. 0-18-
70, 7-20-1970; amd. 1978 Code)
   (D)   Fleeing A Police Officer: No person, having been given a visual or
audible signal by police officer directing such person to stop, shall wilfully
fail or refuse to obey such direction, flee, run from, or hide from the police
officer.
The signal given by the police officer may be by hand, voice, siren, or red
light; and the police officer shall be in police uniform, or shall previously
or concurrently with such signal, have identified himself as a police officer
by displaying a badge. (Ord. 0-11-92, 2-18-1992)
8-1-10: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of section
8-1-8 or 8-1-9 of this chapter shall, upon a judicial finding of such
violation, be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 0-11-92, 2-18-1992)
CHAPTER 2
AUXILIARY POLICE
SECTION:
8-2-1: Creation; Appointments; Term; Qualifications
8-2-2: Oath; Commissions; Powers And Duties
8-2-3: Training
8-2-4: Compensation
8-2-5: Firearms
8-2-6: Rules And Regulations
8-2-1: CREATION; APPOINTMENTS; TERM; QUALIFICATIONS:
There is hereby created an auxiliary police force, the membership of which
shall consist of not more than twenty (20) persons. Each member shall be in
good physical condition and have good character and be not less than twenty one
(21) years of age. Appointments to the auxiliary police force shall be made by
the mayor with the advice and consent of the city council. The mayor may seek
the advice of the board of fire and police commissioners 1  and the police
chief in screening candidates or in otherwise assisting him in his selection of
appointees. The appointments to the auxiliary police force shall be for an
indefinite term and the mayor may relieve such auxiliary police officer of such
duties at any time by the appointment of another auxiliary police officer to
replace the officer previously appointed or simply by withdrawing the
appointment previously made. (Ord. 0-18-70-D, 12-20-1976; amd. Ord. 0-35-05,
11-21-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 1 of this code.
8-2-2: OATH; COMMISSIONS; POWERS AND DUTIES:
The auxiliary police force shall function under the immediate direction of the
chief of police or in his absence, the senior regular officer on duty. Before
entering upon his duties each member shall take and subscribe to the same oath
or affirmation as provided by the statutes to be taken and subscribed by city
officers. No person may take such oath of office who has been convicted of a
felony or other crime involving moral turpitude. After subscribing his oath of
office each member of the auxiliary police force shall be issued an official
commission card signed by the mayor. Said card shall be retained in the
personal possession of the member at all times. Prior to his appointment, the
fingerprints of an auxiliary policeman shall be taken. Membership in the
auxiliary police force shall not constitute membership in the regularly
constituted police department. Members of the auxiliary police force shall not
be entitled to any right or privilege of members of the regularly constituted
police department nor to any other perquisite or emolument attaching to
membership in said regularly constituted police department. Auxiliary police
shall be assigned to aid in the direction of traffic, to aid in control of
disasters, as provided by a disaster plan as approved by the city council, and
to aid in control of civil disorder at the direction of the chief of police
provided, however, that if the police chief shall determine it impractical for
the regular police force to perform its normal duties he may direct the
auxiliary police to perform such duties. (Ord. 0-18-70-D, 12-20-1976)
8-2-3: TRAINING:
The chief of police shall determine the program for training members of the
auxiliary police force. Such course of training shall, however, include
instruction in the use of weapons and in police procedures. (Ord. 0-18-70-D,
12-20-1976)
8-2-4: COMPENSATION:
No member of the auxiliary police force shall receive any compensation from the
city for his services as a member of the auxiliary police force excepting as
may be provided from time to time by the mayor and city council. During his
term of office, the salary of an auxiliary policeman may be increased, if one
is provided, but not reduced. (Ord. 0-18-70-D, 12-20-1976)
8-2-5: FIREARMS:
Auxiliary police shall not carry firearms. (Ord. 0-18-70-D, 12-20-1976)
8-2-6: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The rules and regulations of the police department and such special rules as
may be promulgated from time to time by the chief of police and approved by the
city council, shall to the extent applicable apply equally to the members of
the auxiliary police force. (Ord. 0-18-70-D, 12-20-1976)
CHAPTER 3
DOGS AND CATS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Definitions
8-3-2: Prohibitions
8-3-3: Authorizations
8-3-4: Implementation Of Provisions
8-3-5: General Penalties
8-3-6: Procedure For Declaring A Dog Or Cat Dangerous
8-3-7: Notification Of Declaration Of Dangerous Dog Or Cat
8-3-8: Hearing On Dangerous Dog Or Cat Declaration
8-3-9: Appeal From Dangerous Dog Or Cat Declaration
8-3-10: Keeping Of Dangerous Dog Or Cat
8-3-11: Permit And Tag Required For A Dangerous Dog Or Cat
8-3-12: Notification Of Intent To Impound
8-3-13: Immediate Impoundment
8-3-14: Impoundment Hearing
8-3-15: Destruction
8-3-16: Appeal From Order Of Humane Destruction
8-3-17: Change Of Ownership
8-3-18: Continuation Of Dangerous Dog Or Cat Declaration
8-3-19: Declaration Of Public Nuisance
8-3-20: Dangerous Dog Or Cat Penalties
8-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
ADULT CAT: Any cat over the age of six (6) months.
ADULT DOG: Any dog over the age of six (6) months.
CITY ADMINISTRATOR: Refers to the city administrator or his/her designee.
COMPETENT PERSON: A person who is physically and mentally capable of managing
and controlling a dog or cat which is in his/her responsibility while off the
premises of the owner or keeper thereof.
CONFINED: The restriction of an animal at all times by the owner, or his/her
agent, to an escape proof building, house, or other enclosure away from other
animals and the public.
DANGEROUS DOG OR CAT: Any dog or cat that, because of its aggressive nature,
training or characteristic behavior, presents a risk of serious physical harm
or death to human beings, or would constitute a danger to human life, physical
well being or property if not kept under the direct control of the owner. This
definition shall not apply to dogs utilized by law enforcement officers in the
performance of their duties. The term "dangerous dog or cat" includes any dog
or cat that according to the records of the city, the Darien police department,
any law enforcement agency, or a licensed veterinarian:
   (A)   Has aggressively bitten, attacked, endangered, or inflicted severe
injury on a human being on public or private property, or when unprovoked, has
chased or approached a person upon the street, sidewalks, or any public grounds
in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, provided that such
actions are attested to in a sworn statement by one or more persons and
dutifully investigated by any of the above referenced authorities;
   (B)   Has more than once severely injured or killed a domestic animal while
off the owner's property; or
   (C)   Has been used primarily or in part for the purpose of dogfighting, or
is a dog trained for dogfighting.
DIRECT CONTROL: The immediate, continuous physical control of a dog or cat such
as by means of a leash, cord, secure fence, or chain of such strength to
restrain the dog or cat and controlled by a person capable of restraining the
dog or cat, or safe and secure restraint within a vehicle. If the controlling
person is at all times fully and clearly within unobstructed sight and hearing
of the dog or cat, voice control shall be considered direct control when the
dog or cat is actually participating in training or in an official showing,
obedience, or field event. Direct control shall not be required of dogs or cats
actually participating in a legal sport in an authorized area or to government
police dogs.
ENCLOSURE: A fence or structure of at least six feet (6') in height, forming or
causing an enclosure suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and
suitable to confine a dangerous dog or cat in conjunction with other measures
that may be taken by the owner or keeper, such as tethering of the dangerous
dog or cat within the enclosure. The enclosure shall be securely enclosed and
locked and designed with secure sides, top, and bottom and shall be designed to
prevent the animal from escaping from the enclosure. If the enclosure is a room
within a residence, the door must be locked. A dangerous dog or cat may be
allowed to move about freely within the entire residence if it is muzzled at
all times.
HOUSED FOR OBSERVATION: When the animal control officer receives information
that any person has been bitten by a dog or cat or other animal, the animal
control officer, or his/her authorized representative, shall have such dog or
cat or other animal confined under the observation of a licensed veterinarian
for a period of ten (10) days. The animal control officer may, by regulation,
permit such confinement to be reduced to a period of less than ten (10) days.
Such veterinarian shall report the clinical condition of the dog or cat or
other animal immediately, with confirmation in writing to the animal control
officer within twenty four (24) hours after the dog or cat or animal is
presented for examination, giving the owner's name, address, the date of
confinement, the breed, description, age, and sex of such dog or cat or other
animal, on appropriate forms. The animal control officer shall notify the
attending physician or responsible health agency. At the end of the confinement
period, the veterinarian shall submit a written report to the animal control
officer advising him of the final disposition of such dog or cat or other
animal, on appropriate forms. When sufficient evidence is presented that such
dog or cat or other animal was inoculated against rabies within the time
prescribed by law, it may be confined in the house of its owner, or in a manner
which will prohibit it from biting any person for a period of ten (10) days, if
the animal control officer, or other licensed veterinarian, adjudges such
confinement satisfactory. The animal control officer may, by regulation, permit
such confinement to be reduced to a period of less than ten (10) days. At the
end of the confinement period, such dog or cat or other animal shall be
examined by the animal control officer, or another licensed veterinarian. Such
confinement shall be at the expense of the owner of such dog or cat or animal.
IMPOUNDMENT: The taking or picking up and confining of an animal by any police
officer, animal control officer or any other public officer under the
provisions of this chapter.
MUZZLE: A device constructed of strong, soft material or of metal, designed to
fasten over the mouth of an animal to prevent the animal from biting any person
or other animal.
OWNER: Any person, partnership, corporation or other legal entity owning,
harboring or keeping any animal, or in the case of a person under the age of
eighteen (18), that person's parent or legal guardian. An animal shall be
deemed to be harbored if it is fed or sheltered for three (3) or more
consecutive days. This definition shall not apply to any veterinary clinic or
boarding kennel.
RESTRICTED AREA: Any sidewalk, street, parkway, right of way, park, playground
or private lawn other than that of the owner.
RUNNING AT LARGE: Any dog or cat shall be deemed to be running at large when it
is off the premises of its owner or keeper and not under the adequate restraint
of a competent person. A dog or cat is under adequate restraint within the
meaning of this chapter if it is on its owner's or keeper's premises and the
dog or cat has not strayed off of such premises; or on a stout leash, not more
than six feet (6') in length; or at heel within seven feet (7') of a competent
person and obedient to that person's command.
SERIOUS PHYSICAL INJURY: A physical injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious or protracted disfigurement, protracted
impairment of health, impairment of the function of any bodily organ, or
plastic surgery.
VICIOUS DOG OR CAT: For purposes of this chapter, vicious dog or cat shall have
the same meaning as "dangerous dog or cat". (Ord. 0-24-05, 9-19-2005)
8-3-2: PROHIBITIONS:
   (A)   No person or persons shall house, keep or maintain within a single
dwelling unit more than three (3) adult dogs and/or cats, or any combination of
both dogs and cats.
   (B)   No person shall allow any dog or cat which he/she owns, houses, keeps
or maintains to run at large within the city.
   (C)   Any person who owns, houses, keeps or maintains a dog or cat which
defecates within or upon a restricted area shall be responsible for removing
such defecation.
   (D)   Any person who owns, houses, keeps or maintains a dog or cat, which
dog or cat has bitten a person, shall house such dog or cat for observation for
a period of ten (10) days at the order of a police officer or the animal
control officer.
   (E)   No person shall house, keep or maintain any dog or cat nine (9) months
of age or older that does not have a current, valid DuPage County rabies
control identification tag and license.
   (F)   No person or persons shall harbor or keep any animal which disturbs
the peace by loud noises at any time of the day or night. (Ord. 0-24-05, 9-19-
2005)
8-3-3: AUTHORIZATIONS:
   (A)   The chief of police, any officer of the Darien police department or
employee, officer or independent contractor of the city hired for that purpose,
is authorized to use a chemical type capture gun or other necessary devices to
effect the apprehension of a dog or cat running at large.
   (B)   The chief of police, any officer of the Darien police department, or
employee, officer or independent contractor of the city hired for that purpose,
is authorized to humanely destroy any dog or cat found running at large that
presents a real and immediate hazard to persons.
   (C)   The chief of police, any officer of the Darien police department, or
employee, officer or independent contractor of the city hired for that purpose,
is authorized to incarcerate or cause to be incarcerated at any veterinary
hospital any dog or cat found running at large if the owner is unknown. The
owner of such dog or cat, when found, shall pay all expenses incurred.
   (D)   The chief of police and/or the animal control officer is authorized to
direct any veterinarian at a veterinary hospital housing a dog or cat secured
by the Darien police department under this chapter, to humanely destroy such
animal housed if the owner cannot be located within a period of ten (10) days
from the date of incarceration. (Ord. 0-24-05, 9-19-2005)
8-3-4: IMPLEMENTATION OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter providing that no person or persons shall house,
keep or maintain within a single dwelling unit more than a total of three (3)
adult dogs and/or cats shall be implemented in stages over a period of time for
any person who on or before April 1, 2001, was not in compliance with the law,
in the following manner: No person or persons who on April 1, 2001, housed,
kept or maintained within a single dwelling unit a total of three (3) or fewer
adult dogs and/or cats shall be allowed to increase the number of adult dogs
and/or cats beyond the maximum number of three (3). Any person or persons who
on April 1, 2001, housed, kept or maintained within a single dwelling unit more
than a total of three (3) adult dogs and/or cats shall before October 1, 2001,
reduce the total number of adult dogs and/or cats to a maximum of the lesser of
that number owned on said date or a total of six (6). Whenever a person who is
temporarily allowed to maintain up to a maximum of six (6) adult dogs and/or
cats under the provisions of this section shall have the number of such dogs
and/or cats decreased through death, sale or in any other manner, no new dogs
and/or cats shall be added to replace the dogs and/or cats no longer present in
the household unless with the additional dogs and/or cats the total number of
adult dogs and/or cats within the household shall be a total of three (3) or
less. Any person or persons who housed, kept or maintained a total of more than
three (3) adult dogs and/or cats within a single dwelling unit on or before
April 1, 2001, shall, on or before April 1, 2001, report such fact to the
office of the city clerk. Such person shall produce along with this report
proof of the number of dogs and/or cats being housed, kept or maintained within
the single dwelling unit on April 1, 2001. If the city clerk shall find the
proof of the number of dogs and/or cats to be acceptable evidence of such fact,
a certificate shall be issued to the person allowing the increased number of
dogs and/or cats to be kept until such number becomes diminished to the maximum
allowable of a total of three (3) dogs and/or cats as provided in this section.
(Ord. 0-24-05, 9-19-2005)
8-3-5: GENERAL PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate sections
8-3-2 through
8-3-4 of this chapter shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00)
nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first offense and not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a
subsequent offense. Each occurrence of a violation or noncompliance shall be
deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 0-24-05, 9-19-2005)
8-3-6: PROCEDURE FOR DECLARING A DOG OR CAT DANGEROUS:
   (A)   The animal control officer, a law enforcement officer, or any adult
person may request under oath that a dog or cat be classified as dangerous as
defined in section
8-3-1 of this chapter by submitting a sworn, written complaint on a form
approved by the city administrator. Upon receipt of such complaint, the city
administrator shall notify the owner of the dog or cat that a complaint has
been filed and that an investigation into the allegations as set forth in the
complaint will be conducted. The notice to the owner shall inform the owner of
the opportunity to meet with the city administrator prior to the making of a
determination.
   (B)   The investigation shall include the gathering of any medical or
veterinary evidence; interviewing witnesses; and making a detailed written
report. No dog or cat shall be deemed a "dangerous dog or cat" without clear
and convincing evidence. The owner shall be sent immediate notification of the
determination by registered or certified mail that includes a complete
description of the appeal process as set forth in section
8-3-7 of this chapter.
   (C)   At the conclusion of an investigation, the city administrator may:
      1.   Determine that the dog or cat is not dangerous and, if the dog or
cat is impounded, waive any impoundment fees incurred and release the dog or
cat to its owner; or
      2.   Determine that the dog or cat is dangerous and order the owner to
comply with the requirements for keeping dangerous dogs or cats set forth in
section
8-3-10 of this chapter, and if the dog or cat is impounded, release the dog or
cat to its owner after the owner has paid all fees incurred for the
impoundment. If all impoundment fees have not been paid within ten (10)
business days after a final determination that a dog or cat is dangerous, the
city administrator may cause the dog or cat to be humanely destroyed.
   (D)   A dog or cat shall not be declared dangerous if the city administrator
determines the conduct of the dog or cat was justified because:
      1.   The threat was sustained by a person who at the time was committing
a crime or offense upon the owner or custodian of the dog or cat;
      2.   The threatened person was tormenting, abusing, assaulting, or
physically threatening the dog or cat or its offspring;
      3.   The injured, threatened or killed companion animal was attacking or
threatening to attack the dog or cat or its offspring; or
      4.   The dog or cat was responding to pain or injury or was protecting
itself, its owner, custodian, or a member of its household, kennel or
offspring.
   (E)   If deemed dangerous, the city administrator shall order the dog or cat
to be spayed or neutered within fourteen (14) days at the owner's expense and
one or more of the following as deemed appropriate under the circumstances and
necessary for the protection of the public:
      1.   Evaluation of the dog or cat by a certified applied behaviorist, a
board certified veterinary behaviorist, or another recognized expert in the
field and completion of training or other treatment as deemed appropriate by
the expert. The owner of the dog or cat shall be responsible for all costs
associated with evaluations and training ordered under this subsection; or
      2.   Direct supervision by an adult eighteen (18) years of age or older
whenever the animal is on public premises.
   (F)   No dog shall be deemed "dangerous" if it is a professionally trained
dog for law enforcement or guard duties.
   (G)   Dangerous dogs shall not be classified in a manner that is specific as
to breed.
   (H)   Guide dogs for the blind or hearing impaired, support dogs for the
physically handicapped, and sentry, guard, or police owned dogs are exempt from
this section; provided, an attack or injury to a person occurs while the dog is
performing duties as expected. To qualify for exemption under this section,
each such dog shall be currently inoculated against rabies as required by law
and performing duties as expected. It shall be the duty of the owner of the
exempted dog to notify the city clerk of changes of address. In the case of a
sentry or guard dog, the owner shall keep the city clerk advised of the
location where such dog will be stationed. The city clerk shall provide the
police department with a categorized list of the exempted dogs, and shall
promptly notify the police department of any address changes reported to his/
her office. (Ord. 0-24-05, 9-19-2005)
8-3-7: NOTIFICATION OF DECLARATION OF DANGEROUS DOG OR CAT:
   (A)   Within five (5) business days after declaring a dog or cat dangerous,
the city administrator shall notify the owner by certified mail of the dog's or
cat's designation as a dangerous dog or cat and any specific restrictions and
conditions for keeping the dog or cat, as set forth in section
8-3-10 of this chapter. The city administrator also shall notify the chief of
police of the designation of any dog or cat as a dangerous dog or cat. Such
notification shall describe the dog or cat and specify any particular
requirements or conditions placed upon the dog or cat owner.
   (B)   The notice shall inform the dog or cat owner that he/she may request,
in writing, a hearing to contest the city administrator's finding and
designation within five (5) business days after delivery of the dangerous dog
or cat declaration notice.
   (C)   If the city administrator cannot, with due diligence, locate the owner
of a dog or cat that has been seized pursuant to this chapter, the city
administrator shall cause the dog or cat to be impounded for not less than five
(5) business days. If after five (5) days the owner fails to claim the dog or
cat, the city administrator may cause the dog or cat to be humanely destroyed.
(Ord. 0-24-05, 9-19-2005)
8-3-8: HEARING ON DANGEROUS DOG OR CAT DECLARATION:
   (A)   The city administrator shall hold a hearing within fifteen (15) days
after receiving the dog or cat owner's written request for such a hearing. The
city administrator shall provide notice of the date, time and location of the
hearing to the dog or cat owner by certified mail and the complainant by
regular mail.
   (B)   At the hearing, all interested persons shall be given the opportunity
to present evidence on the issue of the dog's or cat's dangerousness. Criteria
to be considered in a hearing required by this section shall include, but not
be limited to, the following:
      1.   Provocation;
      2.   Severity of attack or injury to a person or domestic animal;
      3.   Previous aggressive history (behavior) of the dog or cat;
      4.   Observable behavior of the dog or cat;
      5.   Site and circumstances of the incident; and
      6.   Statements from interested parties.
   (C)   A determination at a hearing that the dog or cat is in fact a
"dangerous dog or cat", as defined in section
8-3-1 of this chapter, shall subject the dog or cat and its owner to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Failure of the dog or cat owner to request a hearing shall result in
the dog or cat being finally declared a dangerous dog or cat and shall subject
the dog or cat and its owner to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 0-24-05,
9-19-2005)
8-3-9: APPEAL FROM DANGEROUS DOG OR CAT DECLARATION:
If the city administrator determines that a dog or cat is dangerous at the
conclusion of a hearing conducted under section
8-3-8 of this chapter, that decision shall be final unless the dog or cat owner
applies to a court of competent jurisdiction for any remedies that may be
available within thirty five (35) days after receiving notice that the dog or
cat has been finally declared dangerous. The hearing on appeal on the city
administrator's determination shall be de novo. (Ord. 0-24-05, 9-19-2005)
8-3-10: KEEPING OF DANGEROUS DOG OR CAT:
The keeping of a "dangerous dog or cat" as defined in section
8-3-1 of this chapter shall be subject to the following requirements:
   (A)   Leash: No person having charge, custody, control or possession of a
dangerous dog or cat shall allow the dog or cat to exit its kennel, pen or
other proper enclosure unless such dog or cat is securely attached to a leash
not more than four feet (4') in length. No such person shall permit a dangerous
dog or cat to be kept on a chain, rope or other type of leash outside its
kennel, pen or other proper enclosure unless a person capable of controlling
the dog or cat is in physical control of the leash.
   (B)   Muzzle: It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper of a dangerous
dog or cat to allow the dog or cat to be outside of its proper enclosure unless
it is necessary for the dog or cat to receive veterinary care or exercise. In
such cases, the dog or cat shall wear a properly fitted muzzle to prevent it
from biting humans or other animals. Such muzzle shall not interfere with the
dog's or cat's breathing or vision.
   (C)   Confinement: Except when leashed and muzzled as provided in this
section, a dangerous dog or cat shall be securely confined indoors or confined
in a locked pen or other secure enclosure that is suitable to prevent the entry
of children and is designed to prevent the dog or cat from escaping. The
enclosure shall include shelter and protection from the elements and shall
provide adequate exercise room, light and ventilation. The enclosed structure
shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition and shall meet the definition
of "enclosure" set forth in section
8-3-1 of this chapter.
   (D)   Indoor Confinement: No dangerous dog or cat shall be kept on a porch,
patio or in any part of a house or structure that would allow the dog or cat to
exit such building on its own volition. In addition, no such dog or cat shall
be kept in a house or structure when the windows or screen doors are the only
obstacles preventing the dog or cat from exiting the structure.
   (E)   Signs: All owners, keepers or harborers of dangerous dogs or cats
shall display in a prominent place on their premises a sign easily readable by
the public using the words "Beware of Dog or Cat".
   (F)   Liability Insurance, Surety Bond: The owner of a dangerous dog or cat
shall present to the city clerk proof that he/she has procured liability
insurance or a surety bond in the amount of not less than one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00) covering any damage or injury that may be caused by such
dangerous dog or cat. The policy shall contain a provision requiring that the
city be notified immediately by the agent issuing the policy in the event that
the insurance policy is canceled, terminates or expires. The liability
insurance or surety bond shall be obtained prior to the issuing of a permit to
keep a dangerous dog or cat. The dog or cat owner shall sign a statement
attesting that he/she shall maintain and not voluntarily cancel the liability
insurance policy during the twelve (12) month period for which a permit is
sought, unless he/she ceases to own or keep the dog or cat prior to the
expiration date of the permit period. In the event that the owner proves to the
satisfaction of the city clerk that insurance is not available, he/she may pay
a nonrefundable cash fee in the amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) to
the city.
   (G)   Animals Born Of Registered Dogs Or Cats: All offspring born of
dangerous dogs or cats registered with the city clerk also must be registered
with the city clerk within six (6) weeks of birth.
   (H)   Notification Of Escape: The owner or keeper of a dangerous dog or cat
shall notify the animal control officer or Darien police department immediately
if such dog or cat escapes from its enclosure or restraint and is at large.
Such immediate notification shall also be required if the dog or cat bites or
attacks a person or domestic animal.
   (I)   Failure To Comply: It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any
owner of a dangerous dog or cat registered with the city clerk to fail to
comply with the requirements and conditions set forth in this section. Any dog
or cat found to be in violation of this section shall be subject to immediate
seizure and impoundment. In addition, failure to comply with the requirements
and conditions set forth in this chapter shall result in the revocation of the
dog's or cat's license and the permit providing for the keeping of such animal.
(Ord. 0-24-05, 9-19-2005)
8-3-11: PERMIT AND TAG REQUIRED FOR A DANGEROUS DOG OR CAT:
   (A)   The owner of a dangerous dog or cat shall, within three (3) business
days after the classification of the dog or cat as dangerous or upon
acquisition of such a dog or cat, obtain an annual permit from the city clerk
to harbor the dog or cat. The fee for such permit shall be two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) per year.
   (B)   At the time the permit is issued, a red circular tag shall be issued
to the owner of the dangerous dog or cat. The tag shall be worn at all times by
the dog or cat to clearly and easily identify it as a dangerous dog or cat.
   (C)   The permit for maintaining a dangerous dog or cat shall be presented
to the animal control officer upon demand. (Ord. 0-24-05, 9-19-2005)
8-3-12: NOTIFICATION OF INTENT TO IMPOUND:
   (A)   When the city administrator intends to impound a dog or cat declared
to be dangerous for violation of section
8-3-10 of this chapter, he/she shall notify the owner or custodian of the dog
or cat, by certified mail, of the intended impoundment at least five (5)
business days prior to the intended impoundment, except as provided in section
8-3-13 of this chapter.
   (B)   The notice of intent to impound shall inform the owner or custodian of
the dog or cat that he/she may request in writing, within five (5) business
days prior to the intended impoundment, a hearing to contest the intended
impoundment and finding of violation.
   (C)   Upon request by the owner or custodian of the dog or cat for a hearing
pursuant to subsection (B) of this section, a hearing shall be held within ten
(10) business days after the request for a hearing. Notice of the date, time
and location of the hearing shall be provided by certified mail to the dog's or
cat's owner or custodian requesting such hearing.
   (D)   If the owner or custodian requests a hearing pursuant to subsection
(B) of this section, no impoundment shall take place until conclusion of the
hearing, except as authorized in section
8-3-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 0-24-05, 9-19-2005)
8-3-13: IMMEDIATE IMPOUNDMENT:
   (A)   A dog or cat declared to be dangerous may be immediately impounded
without a preimpoundment hearing when the city administrator determines such
immediate impoundment is necessary for the protection of public health or
safety. Such immediate impoundment may be ordered for violation of section
8-3-10 of this chapter or when the dog or cat bites a person or domestic
animal.
   (B)   The owner or custodian of the dog or cat immediately impounded
pursuant to subsection (A) of this section shall be notified of the impoundment
by certified mail within five (5) business days after the dog's or cat's
impoundment.
   (C)   The notice of impoundment shall inform the owner or custodian of the
dog or cat that he/she may request, in writing, a hearing to contest the
impoundment within five (5) business days after the mailing of the notice of
impoundment.
   (D)   Upon request by the owner or custodian of the dog or cat for a hearing
under subsection (C) of this section, a hearing shall be held within ten (10)
business days after such request. Notice of the date, time and location of the
hearing shall be provided by certified mail to the dog or cat owner requesting
the hearing. (Ord. 0-24-05, 9-19-2005)
8-3-14: IMPOUNDMENT HEARING:
   (A)   If, after a hearing on impoundment, the city administrator finds no
violation of section
8-3-10 of this chapter, or that the dog or cat has not bitten an individual or
domestic animal, the dog or cat shall be returned to its owner or custodian if
already impounded, or shall not be impounded as intended.
   (B)   Incident to the findings and conclusions made at the impoundment
hearing, the city administrator may impose reasonable restrictions and
conditions for the maintenance of the dog or cat to ensure the health and
safety of the public and the animal. Such conditions may include, but shall not
be limited to:
      1.   Posting of bond or other proof of ability to respond in damages;
      2.   Specific requirements as to size, construction and design of a
kennel/enclosure in which to house the dog or cat;
      3.   Requirements as to type and method of restraint and/or muzzling of
the dog or cat;
      4.   Photo identification or permanent marking of the dog or cat for
purposes of identification; and
      5.   Payment of reasonable fees to recover the costs incurred by the city
in ensuring compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 0-24-05, 9-19-2005)
8-3-15: DESTRUCTION:
   (A)   The city administrator may order the destruction of a dog or cat that
is determined to be extremely dangerous to public health or safety, a dog or
cat that has made an extremely vicious attack upon an individual, or a dog or
cat declared dangerous and whose owner is unable or unwilling to adequately
restrain it.
   (B)   The city administrator shall give written notice by certified mail of
the intention to destroy such dog or cat to the owner or custodian of the dog
or cat, who may request in writing, within ten (10) business days after
delivery of such notice, a hearing to contest the intended destruction.
   (C)   If no hearing is requested pursuant to subsection (B) of this section,
the dog or cat shall be destroyed pursuant to 510 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
15, and as amended from time to time.
   (D)   If a hearing is requested pursuant to subsection (B) of this section,
such hearing shall be held within ten (10) business days after the request; and
the dog or cat shall not be destroyed prior to the conclusion of the hearing.
   (E)   The dog or cat owner shall be responsible for payment of all boarding
costs and other fees as may be required for the city to humanely and safely
keep the animal during any legal proceeding. (Ord. 0-24-05, 9-19-2005)
8-3-16: APPEAL FROM ORDER OF HUMANE DESTRUCTION:
If the city administrator orders a dangerous dog or cat to be humanely
destroyed pursuant to section
8-3-15 of this chapter, that decision shall be final unless the dog or cat
owner applies to a court of competent jurisdiction for any remedies that may be
available within thirty five (35) days after receiving notice of the
destruction order. If an appeal is timely filed, the city administrator shall
suspend the destruction order pending the final determination of the court. The
hearing on appeal on the city administrator's determination shall be de novo.
(Ord. 0-24-05, 9-19-2005)
8-3-17: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP:
   (A)   Any owner of a dangerous dog or cat who sells or otherwise transfers
ownership, custody or residence of the dog or cat shall, within ten (10)
business days after such change of ownership or residence, provide written
notification to the city clerk of the name, address and telephone number of the
new owner. It shall also be the responsibility of the person transferring
ownership or custody of the dog or cat to provide written notification of the
dog's or cat's classification as dangerous to the person receiving the dog or
cat. The previous owner shall furnish a copy of such notification to the city
clerk along with written acknowledgment by the new owner of his/her receipt of
such notification. The city clerk shall notify the animal control officer and
the police department of any changes of ownership, custody or residence of the
dog or cat within three (3) business days after receiving the required
information from the previous dog or cat owner.
   (B)   Any person receiving a dog or cat classified as dangerous must obtain
the required permit, tag and enclosure prior to the acquisition of the dog or
cat. The new owner shall comply fully with the provisions of this chapter
pertaining to obtaining liability insurance, payment of fees, and maintenance,
control and ownership of a dangerous dog or cat. (Ord. 0-24-05, 9-19-2005)
8-3-18: CONTINUATION OF DANGEROUS DOG OR CAT DECLARATION:
Any dog or cat that has been declared dangerous by any agency or department of
this city, another municipality, county, or state shall be subject to the
provisions of this chapter for the remainder of its life. The person owning or
having custody of any dog or cat designated as a dangerous dog or cat by any
municipality, county, or state government shall notify the city clerk of the
dog's or cat's address and conditions of maintenance within ten (10) days of
moving the animal into the city. The restrictions and conditions of maintenance
of any dog or cat declared dangerous by this city, another municipality, county
or state shall remain in force while the dog or cat remains in the city. (Ord.
0-24-05, 9-19-2005)
8-3-19: DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE:
The violation of sections
8-3-6 through
8-3-18 of this chapter is hereby declared a public nuisance. (Ord. 0-24-05, 9-
19-2005)
8-3-20: DANGEROUS DOG OR CAT PENALTIES:
Whoever violates or fails to comply with sections
8-3-6 through
8-3-18 of this chapter shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
more than three hundred dollars ($300.00). For a third or subsequent offense
within one year of the first offense, such person shall be fined not less than
one hundred twenty dollars ($120.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). Each occurrence of a violation or noncompliance shall be deemed a
separate offense. (Ord. 0-24-05, 9-19-2005)
CHAPTER 4
DANGEROUS ANIMALS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Definition
8-4-2: Permit Required; Fees
8-4-3: Issuance Of Permit
8-4-4: Investigations
8-4-5: Limitations
8-4-6: Fines
8-4-1: DEFINITION:
"Dangerous animal" means any wild animal including, but not limited to, wild
mammal, reptile, fowl, insect or arachnid which is not naturally tame or
gentle, but is of a wild nature or disposition and which, because of its size,
vicious nature, unpleasant odor, poisonous venom or other characteristics of
the same nature, could constitute a danger to human life, health or property.
(Ord. 0-14-74, 8-5-1974)
8-4-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within the City any
dangerous animal unless a special, annual permit therefor is first obtained
from the office of the City Clerk. Such permit shall be in effect from May 1 to
April 30.
No permit for the keeping of dangerous animals shall be issued unless all the
provisions of this Chapter are complied with and a fee of ten dollars ($10.00)
is paid to the City Clerk for each dangerous animal kept or maintained. Permit
fees shall be paid annually on or before the start of the license year. (Ord.
0-14-74, 8-5-1974)
8-4-3: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
The City Clerk shall issue such special permit for the keeping or maintenance
of a dangerous animal if it is found:
   (A)   That the dangerous animal is at all times kept or maintained in a safe
manner and that it is at all times confined securely so that the keeping of
such dangerous animal will not constitute a danger to human life, health or
property.
   (B)   That adequate safeguards are made to prevent unauthorized access to
such dangerous animal by members of the public.
   (C)   That the health or well being of the dangerous animal is not in any
way endangered by the manner of keeping or confinement.
   (D)   That the keeping of such dangerous animal does not constitute a
nuisance and will not harm the surrounding neighborhood or disturb the peace
and quiet of the surrounding neighborhood.
   (E)   That the keeping of such dangerous animal will not create or cause
offensive odors or constitute a danger to public health.
   (F)   That the applicant for such special permit files with the City Clerk,
if deemed necessary by the Clerk, a copy of liability insurance in the amount
of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for bodily injury to or death of
any person or persons or for damage to property owned by any other person which
may result from the ownership, keeping or maintenance of such dangerous animal.
Such certificate of insurance shall provide that no cancellation of the
insurance will be made unless ten (10) days' written notice is first given to
the City Clerk.
   (G)   That the applicant execute an agreement to reimburse and hold harmless
the City from any costs of or claims against the City that may be incurred in
the event of the escape of such dangerous animal.
   (H)   That the name, address and telephone number of the veterinary doctor
to be called in the event that the dangerous animal escapes or requires medical
attention, be given to the City Clerk. (Ord. 0-14-74, 8-5-1974)
8-4-4: INVESTIGATIONS:
The City Clerk or a person designated by said Clerk, in the conduct of an
investigation for a special permit is authorized to consult with any recognized
authority for information and advice concerning the keeping of dangerous
animals and, further, that by making of an application, the applicant gives
permission for the City Clerk or designated representative to enter upon the
property of the applicant during normal business hours to inspect the facility
in which a dangerous animal is to be kept or maintained and for such purposes
as are provided in this Chapter; further, that the applicant agrees to such
inspection prior to any renewal of such annual permit and at least once during
each six (6) months of the period for which the permit is issued. (Ord. 0-14-
74, 8-5-1974)
8-4-5: LIMITATIONS:
In no event shall permits be issued for the keeping of more than two (2)
dangerous animals at any single location, except by Council approval. (Ord. 0-
14-74, 8-5-1974)
8-4-6: FINES:
Any person who keeps or maintains a "dangerous animal", as defined in this
Chapter, and who fails to obtain a permit for same shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation. A separate offense shall be
considered for each day such person shall keep and maintain a dangerous animal,
having been notified by the City Clerk or any member of the Police Department
that a violation exists. (Ord. 0-14-74, 8-5-1974)
CHAPTER 5
TRESPASSES
SECTION:
8-5-1: Trespasses Prohibited
8-5-1: TRESPASSES PROHIBITED:
   (A)   Prohibition, Generally: It shall be unlawful for any person to commit
a trespass within the City either upon public or private property.
   (B)   Specifically Enumerated Trespasses; Suppression: Without constituting
any limitation upon the provisions of subsection (A) of this Section, any of
the following acts by any person shall be deemed included among those that
constitute trespasses in violation of the provisions of this Section, and
appropriate action may be taken hereunder at any time, or from time to time, to
prevent or suppress any violation or violations of this Section, the aforesaid
enumerated acts so included, being as follows:
      1.   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another,
including any public property in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at
the main entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or entry or in
violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing, by any
owner or occupant thereof; or
      2.   The pursuit of a course of conduct or action incidental to the
making of an entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or
entry, or in violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in
writing by any owner or occupant thereof; or
      3.   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in case
of being requested, either orally or in writing, to leave by any owner or
occupant thereof; or
      4.   An entry into or upon any vehicle, aircraft, or watercraft made
without the consent of the person having the right to the possession or control
thereof, or a failure or refusal to leave any such vehicle, aircraft or
watercraft after being requested to leave by the person having such right.
(Ord. 0-03-74, 4-1-1974)
CHAPTER 6
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES
SECTION:
8-6-1: Definition
8-6-2: Nuisance Declared
8-6-3: Abatement Of Nuisance
8-6-4: Interpretation Of Provisions
8-6-1: DEFINITION:
For purposes of this Chapter "inoperable motor vehicle" means any motor vehicle
from which, for a period of at least seven (7) days, the engine, wheels, or
other parts have been removed, or on which the engine, wheels or other parts
have been altered, damaged, or otherwise so treated that the vehicle is
incapable of being driven under its own motor power, but shall not include:
   (A)   A motor vehicle which has been rendered temporarily incapable of being
driven under its own power in order to perform ordinary service or repair
operations;
   (B)   Any motor vehicle that is kept within a building when not in use;
   (C)   Operable historic vehicles over twenty five (25) years of age; and
   (D)   A motor vehicle on the premises of a place of business engaged in the
wrecking or junking of motor vehicles. (Ord. 0-54-87, 12-7-1987)
8-6-2: NUISANCE DECLARED 1 :
All inoperable motor vehicles, whether on public or private property within the
City, are hereby declared nuisances. (Ord. 0-54-87, 12-7-1987)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsections
  7-3-1(I) and (J) of this Code.
8-6-3: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE:
   (A)   A person is required to dispose of any inoperable motor vehicle(s)
under his or her control within seven (7) days after written notice is received
from the corporate authorities of the City or from the Chief of Police or any
member of his Department designated by him, commanding disposition of the
inoperable motor vehicle(s).
   (B)   The Police Department of the City may remove the inoperable motor
vehicle after seven (7) days written notice if the vehicle has not been removed
by the vehicle owner.
   (C)   A person shall not deposit upon any public or private roadway, alley,
driveway, parking area, or other place within the City limits, any inoperable
motor vehicle or part thereof without first obtaining permission of the owner,
occupant, or agent of private property or the Police Department of the City for
public property.
   (D)   Any person failing to obey a notice received pursuant to this Chapter
shall be fined as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each day such failure to obey shall continue.
   (E)   The provisions of this Chapter are authorized by Illinois State
statutes, specifically Public Act 85-163, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
40-3, as from time to time amended. (Ord. 0-54-87, 12-7-1987)
8-6-4: INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS:
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to limit the power of the City to
abate a nuisance where the circumstances creating the nuisance include the
maintenance of a motor vehicle on private property. (Ord. 0-54-87, 12-7-1987)
CHAPTER 7
CANNABIS REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-7-1: Controlled Substances And Cannabis Defined
8-7-2: Violation
8-7-3: Penalty
8-7-1: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES AND CANNABIS DEFINED:
 
                                        A facility operated by an organization
                                        or business that is licensed by the
                                        Illinois Department of Financial and
                                        Professional Regulation to acquire
                                        cannabis from licensed cannabis
                                        business establishments for the purpose
                                        of selling or dispensing cannabis,
ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSARIES:        cannabis-infused products, cannabis
                                        seeds, paraphernalia or related
                                        supplies to purchasers or to qualified
                                        registered medical cannabis patients
                                        and caregivers, per the Cannabis
                                        Regulation and Tax Act, P.A.101-0027,
                                        as it may be amended from time to time,
                                        and regulations promulgated thereunder.
                                        Includes marijuana, hashish and other
                                        substances which are identified as
                                        including any parts of the plant
                                        Cannabis sativa, whether growing or
                                        not; the seeds thereof, the resin
                                        extracted from any part of such plant;
                                        and any compound, manufacture, salt,
                                        derivative, mixture or preparation of
                                        such plant, its seeds, or resin,
                                        including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC)
                                        and all other cannabinol derivatives,
                                        including its naturally occurring or
                                        synthetically produced ingredients,
CANNABIS:                               whether produced directly or indirectly
                                        by extraction, or independently by
                                        means of chemical synthesis or by a
                                        combination of extraction and chemical
                                        synthesis; but shall not include the
                                        mature stalks of such plant, fiber
                                        produced from such stalks, oil or cake
                                        made from the seeds of such plant, any
                                        other compound, manufacture, salt,
                                        derivative, mixture, or preparation of
                                        such mature stalks (except the resin
                                        extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or
                                        cake, or the sterilized seed of such
                                        plant which is incapable of
                                        germination.
                                        The Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act
                                        (CRTA) legalizes and regulates the
                                        production, consumption, and sale of
                                        recreational cannabis in Illinois. The
CANNABIS REGULATION AND TAX ACT (CRTA): CRTA allows Illinois residents over the
                                        age of twenty one (21) to possess and
                                        privately use recreational cannabis in
                                        limited quantities; however, use of
                                        cannabis in public places is
                                        prohibited.
                                        A drug, substance, or immediate
                                        precursor in the schedules of Article
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE:                   II of the Illinois Controlled
                                        Substances Act, 720 Illinois Compiled
                                        Statutes 570/201 et seq., as amended.
                                        A facility operated by an organization
                                        or business that is licensed by the
                                        Department of Agriculture to cultivate,
                                        dry, cure, and package cannabis and
CRAFT GROWER:                           perform other necessary activities to
                                        make cannabis available for sale at a
                                        dispensing organization or use at a
                                        processing organization. Craft-grower
                                        operations are not allowed in the City
                                        of Darien.
                                        The CRTA pertains to the possession,
                                        use, cultivation, transportation, and
                                        dispensing of adult-use cannabis. The
                                        City of Darien has the authority to
                                        adopt ordinances and to promulgate
                                        rules and regulations that protect the
                                        public health, safety, and welfare of
                                        its citizens.
                                        The City of Darien will permit adult
                                        use recreational cannabis dispensaries
                                        consistent with zoning ordinances
                                        regulating adult use recreational
DISPENSARIES:                           cannabis business establishments,
                                        including rules adopted governing the
                                        time, place, manner, and number of
                                        cannabis business establishments, and
                                        minimum distance limitations between
                                        cannabis business establishments and
                                        locations the City deems sensitive
                                        through a special use process.
                                        The appropriate zoning ordinances,
                                        rules, and definitions shall be
                                        promulgated in the City's Unified
                                        Development Ordinance (UDO) effective
                                        January 1, 2020, as amended from time
                                        to time.
                                        A unit of local government, including a
                                        home rule unit, or any non-home rule
                                        county within the unincorporated
                                        territory of the county may regulate
                                        the on-premises consumption of cannabis
                                        at or in a cannabis business
                                        establishment within its jurisdiction
ON-PREMISES CONSUMPTION:                in a manner consistent with the CRTA.
                                        The CRTA applies the restrictions of
                                        the Smoke Free Illinois Act on smoking
                                        cannabis and provides that property
                                        owners may prohibit the use of cannabis
                                        by any guest, lessee, customer or
                                        visitor. (Ord. 0-12-77, 4-4-1977; amd.
                                        Ord. 0-13-20, 7-20-2020)
 
8-7-2: VIOLATION:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to manufacture, deliver, or possess any
and all equipment, products, and materials of any kind which are peculiar to
and marketed for use in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing,
harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing,
preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing,
concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing in the
human body any controlled substance, including any and all articles listed in
the Illinois Drug Paraphernalia Control Act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
600, as amended.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21), or not
in compliance with the Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, to knowingly
possess any quantity of any substance containing cannabis, except that the
effect of this chapter shall be limited for purposes of municipal prosecution
to persons knowingly possessing less than thirty grams (30g) of cannabis
flower; five hundred milligrams (500mg) of tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) contained
in cannabis-infused product; or five grams (5g) of cannabis concentrates.
Unless authorized under the Illinois Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis
Pilot Program Act or the Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, it is
unlawful for any person to possess cannabis plants; except that the effect of
this chapter shall be limited for purposes of municipal prosecution to persons
knowingly possessing five (5) or fewer cannabis plants.
   (C)   The City of Darien prohibits the on-premises consumption of cannabis
at or in a cannabis business establishment within its jurisdiction in a manner
consistent with the Act. (Ord. 0-12-77, 4-4-1977; amd. Ord. 0-13-20, 7-20-2020)
8-7-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating this section shall be fined not less than two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) for the first offense and five hundred dollars
($500.00) for a subsequent offense for possession. (Ord. 0-12-77, 4-4-1977;
amd. Ord. 0-13-20, 7-20-2020)
CHAPTER 8
AUTOMATIC AMUSEMENT DEVICES
SECTION:
8-8-1: Definitions
8-8-2: License Required; Fees
8-8-3: Limitation
8-8-4: Fines
8-8-5: Nuisance Declared
8-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
AUTOMATIC AMUSEMENT DEVICES: Includes any device which upon the insertion of a
coin, slug, token or disk may be operated by the public as a game,
entertainment or amusement. It includes such devices as pinball machines, skill
ball machines, electronic games using video screens and electrical impulses. It
includes any other type of mechanical game, the object of which is to secure a
particular score, or high score by use of balls, spheres, springs, trigger
devices or electrical impulses. (Ord. 0-47-79, 12-3-1979)
8-8-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain any automatic amusement device
for use by the public within the City limits without first having obtained the
necessary licenses and paid the fees required for each and every such device
under Section
3-1-16 of this Code. (Ord. 0-47-79, 12-3-1979)
8-8-3: LIMITATION:
In no event shall licenses be issued for more than four (4) automatic amusement
devices to be maintained on the same premises for use by the public; provided
however, that any one location or premises at which there had been issued
during the 1979-1980 license year a larger number of licenses than four (4),
such location or premises may continue to receive such larger number in future
years. If fewer such licenses are purchased in any later year, the number of
licenses which may thereafter be purchased shall be correspondingly reduced to
the maximum number allowed in this Section. Where the City Council has granted
a special use under its Zoning Ordinance to allow the utilization of automatic
amusement devices as an accessory ancillary use to another business or has
granted permission to have a greater number of such devices as a condition to
the issuance of a liquor license, the number of automatic amusement devices
which may be placed at such a location shall be that number as it is authorized
within the special use or the liquor license. (Ord. 0-08-80, 3-4-1980)
8-8-4: FINES:
Any person who owns, possesses, controls or maintains more than four (4)
automatic amusement devices at one location or premises for use by the public
in violation of this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each violation. A separate offense shall be charged for each day
such person shall keep more than four (4) automatic amusement devices at one
location or premises after having been notified by the City Clerk or a member
of the Police Department that a violation exists. (Ord. 0-47-79, 12-3-1979)
8-8-5: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Whenever a person who has been notified by the City Clerk or a member of the
Police Department that he is in violation of this Chapter shall continue to
maintain more than four (4) automatic amusement devices despite such
notification and/or the impositions of the applicable fines for more than ten
(10) days after being first notified of a violation, the premises where the
automatic amusement devices are maintained shall be declared a public nuisance
and shall be abated by the City. (Ord. 0-47-79, 12-3-1979)
CHAPTER 9
SOLICITATION OF CONTRIBUTIONS
SECTION:
8-9-1: Solicitation Of Contributions, Application
8-9-2: Permit
8-9-3: Penalty
8-9-1: SOLICITATION OF CONTRIBUTIONS, APPLICATION:
Any charitable organization registered with the Attorney General in the manner
provided by law may stand upon the streets and highways within the City at any
intersection where all traffic is required to come to a full stop for the
purpose of soliciting contributions from the occupants of any vehicle as part
of a Statewide fundraising activity. The charitable organization shall be
liable for any injuries to any person or property during the solicitation which
is causally related to an act of ordinary negligence of the soliciting agency.
Any person engaged in the act of solicitation shall be at least sixteen (16)
years of age and shall wear a high visibility vest. Any charitable organization
wishing to engage in such solicitation for the contributions shall apply to the
Chief of Police of the City for a permit. The application shall state the
following facts along with such other facts as may be required by the Chief of
Police.
   (A)   The name, address and telephone number of the organization.
   (B)   The name, address and telephone number of a local representative of
the organization or that person making the application.
   (C)   Proof that the organization is registered with the Attorney General.
   (D)   A statement of the Statewide fundraising activity of which the local
solicitation effort is a part.
   (E)   A certificate of insurance showing whether the organization is insured
against any claim for injuries or damage to property which is causally related
to an act of ordinary negligence of the soliciting agent acting on behalf of
the organization.
   (F)   The location or locations at which approval to solicit is being
sought.
   (G)   The days and times of days at which such solicitation is proposed to
take place.
   (H)   The number of persons proposed to solicit at each location. (Ord. 0-
48-79, 12-3-1979)
8-9-2: PERMIT:
The Chief of Police shall issue a permit for such solicitation if he finds that
the applicant has complied with all of the provisions of State law regarding
such solicitation and the provisions of this Chapter. The Police Chief must
also find that the locations, times and durations of the proposed solicitation
and number of proposed solicitors shall not result in an interference with the
flow of vehicular traffic. (Ord. 0-48-79, 12-3-1979)
8-9-3: PENALTY:
Any person, corporation, unincorporated association or other entity violating
any provision of this Chapter shall, upon a judicial finding of such violation,
be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each such separate violation. (Ord. 0-48-79, 12-3-1979)
CHAPTER 10
MISCELLANEOUS VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
8-10-1: Damage Or Destruction Of City Owned Property
8-10-2: Stockpiling Of Dirt Prohibited
8-10-3: Compelling Organization Membership
8-10-4: Unlawful Posting Of Signs
8-10-5: Truancy
8-10-6: Smoking Prohibited
8-10-1: DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION OF CITY OWNED PROPERTY 1 :
No person shall intentionally or negligently damage or destroy any real or
personal property owned by the city or real or personal property over which the
city maintains a possessory interest and for which the city is obligated to
exercise due care. In addition to such other action as the city may take in the
case of the damage or destruction of such property, it may institute legal
action charging a violation of this section. A violation of this section shall
be punishable by a minimum fine of the value of the replacement or repair of
the property damaged up to the statutory maximum of five hundred dollars
($500.00). In the event that the cost of replacement or repair of the property
damaged shall be less than five hundred dollars ($500.00), the court may award
as a maximum fine the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 0-24-82, 7-
6-1982)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 14 of this title.
8-10-2: STOCKPILING OF DIRT PROHIBITED:
No person shall allow the stockpiling of dirt within a subdivision in violation
of subsection
5B-1-7(K) of this code. Any violation hereof shall be punishable by a fine of
not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day any
violation of the provisions of this section shall continue. (Ord. 0-30-91, 5-
20-1991)
8-10-3: COMPELLING ORGANIZATION MEMBERSHIP:
No person shall expressly or impliedly threaten to do bodily harm or do bodily
harm to an individual to solicit or cause any person to join any organization
or association regardless of the nature of such organization or association.
Any person convicted of violating this section shall, upon judicial finding, be
fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 0-11-92, 2-18-1992)
8-10-4: UNLAWFUL POSTING OF SIGNS:
It shall be unlawful to post any sign or banner, regardless of purpose or
dimension, upon any public right of way within the corporate limits of the
city.
Signs may be erected within the public right of way provided that they are
erected by city personnel or their representatives and are related to a public
event, festival or holiday.
The unlawful posting of any sign or banner shall be deemed the responsibility
of the person, residence or business advertising on, or otherwise providing,
the information contained on said sign or banner.
Any person violating any provision of this section shall be fined not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each sign
unlawfully posted shall be deemed a separate violation. (Ord. 0-15-93, 4-5-
1993)
8-10-5: TRUANCY:
   (A)   Violations:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to be a truant.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for a parent or legal guardian to permit his or
her child or ward to violate this section.
   (B)   Definition: "Truant" shall mean a child under the age of eighteen (18)
years, who is registered to attend school and is absent from such attendance
for a school day or portion thereof without valid cause, such valid cause
evidenced by proper notification made to the school office.
   (C)   Penalty: Any person violating subsection (A) of this section shall be
fined not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day that the child is a truant shall be deemed a
separate violation.
In addition to or in lieu of the fine set forth in this section, a period of
community service not to exceed one hundred sixty (160) hours may be imposed
upon any person who violates subsection (A) of this section. (Ord. 0-45-97, 12-
1-1997)
8-10-6: SMOKING PROHIBITED:
   (A)   Violation: It shall be unlawful to smoke in public places, places of
employment and government vehicles as provided in the smoke free Illinois act,
410 Illinois Compiled Statutes 82/1 et seq.
   (B)   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the definitions set
forth in section 10 of the smoke free Illinois act, 410 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 82/10, shall apply.
   (C)   Penalty: Any person violating subsection (A) of this section shall be
fined not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00). Each time a violation occurs shall be deemed a
separate violation. (Ord. 0-53-07, 12-17-2007, eff. 1-1-2008)
CHAPTER 11
THEFT
SECTION:
8-11-1: Violation
8-11-2: Theft
8-11-3: Penalty, Compensation Or Return
8-11-1: VIOLATION:
No person shall knowingly purchase, sell, convey by gift, receive or otherwise
transfer or take possession of any item or personal property which possessed or
which in its manufacture or sale commonly possesses a manufacturer's serial or
identification number, if that serial or identification number or other marking
has been removed, defaced, altered or concealed. A "manufacturer's serial or
identification number" shall consist of any number or marking placed on an item
for the purpose of facilitating the identification of the particular item or
class of items. (Ord. 0-34-82, 9-7-1982)
8-11-2: THEFT:
A person commits theft when, with the intent to deprive the owner of the use or
benefit of the property for any length of time, he knowingly:
   (A)   Obtains or exerts control over the property of another without the
owner's permission.
   (B)   Obtains or exerts control over the property of another by deceiving
the owner in any manner.
   (C)   Obtains or exerts control over the property of another when said
property has been reported stolen to any law enforcement agency.
   (D)   Obtains or exerts control over any motor vehicle which has been towed
or impounded pursuant to any section of the Illinois Compiled Statutes, or the
City Code of the City, or pursuant to a lawful arrest, without first obtaining
the permission of the agency that authorized the towing, and the agency or
business rendering the towing service.
   (E)   Obtains control over property which has been lost or mislaid, and
      1.   He knows or learns the identity of the owner and fails to return
said property, or
      2.   He fails to take reasonable measures to learn the identity of the
owner and return said property to him, or
   (F)   Obtains or exerts control over any property offered for sale by any
store, service station, salesman, vending machine, solicitor, or private
individual without paying the full retail value of said property, and
      1.   Carries said property past the last location available for paying
for the property, or
      2.   Alters or removes the label indicating the true retail value of said
property. (Ord. 0-11-92, 2-18-1992)
8-11-3: PENALTY, COMPENSATION OR RETURN:
   (A)   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall,
upon judicial finding of such violation, be fined not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   (B)   Compensation Or Return: The owner of any property shall be entitled to
receive compensation for the full retail price, replacement price, or the
return of such property in substantially the same condition as when it was
stolen, from any person convicted of violating any provision of Section
8-11-2 of this Chapter, provided that the owner submits receipts or other
evidence of the cost of such property, and further provided that the court
enters an order of compensation or return. This compensation or return shall be
in addition to any fine or other costs, and the court may require said
compensation or return as a condition of probation, supervision, or conditional
discharge. (Ord. 0-11-92, 2-18-1992)
CHAPTER 12
CURFEW
SECTION:
8-12-1: Curfew Hours
8-12-2: Affirmative Defenses
8-12-3: Duty Of Police Officers
8-12-4: Parental Responsibility
8-12-5: Penalty
8-12-1: CURFEW HOURS:
It is unlawful for a person less than seventeen (17) years of age to be present
at or upon any public assembly building, place, street or highway at the
following times:
   (A)   Between one minute past twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. Saturday;
   (B)   Between one minute past twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. Sunday; and
   (C)   Between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive,
and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the following day. (Ord. 0-17-04, 5-17-2004)
8-12-2: AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES:
It is a defense to a violation under this section that the child engaged in the
prohibited conduct while:
   (A)   Accompanied by the child's parent, legal guardian, or legal custodian;
   (B)   Accompanied by a person at least eighteen (18) years of age and
specified by the child's parent, guardian, or custodian;
   (C)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
      1.   Lawful employment;
      2.   A school sanctioned activity;
      3.   A religious event;
      4.   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property from
an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
      5.   An activity involving the exercise of the child's rights protected
under the first amendment to the United States constitution, such as freedom of
speech and the right of assembly; or
      6.   An activity conducted by a nonprofit or governmental entity that
provides recreation, education, training, or other care under the supervision
of one or more adults. (Ord. 0-17-04, 5-17-2004)
8-12-3: DUTY OF POLICE OFFICERS:
A member of the police department, while on duty, shall detain any minor
wilfully violating any of the provisions of this chapter until the parent or
guardian of such minor takes him or her into custody. Such officer shall
immediately, upon taking custody of such minor, communicate with the parent or
guardian of such minor. Prior to detaining any minor, the officer shall make an
affirmative inquiry of the minor as to whether any of the affirmative defenses
set forth in section
8-12-2 of this chapter applies. (Ord. 0-17-04, 5-17-2004)
8-12-4: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
It is unlawful for a parent, legal guardian or other person to knowingly or
negligently permit a person in his custody or control to violate section
8-12-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 0-17-04, 5-17-2004)
8-12-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of section
8-12-1 of this chapter shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Any person
violating section
8-12-4 of this chapter shall be fined not less than seventy five dollars
($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 0-17-04, 5-
17-2004)
CHAPTER 13
SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO MINORS
SECTION:
8-13-1: Definitions
8-13-2: Purchase Or Possession Of Tobacco Products
8-13-3: Sale Of Tobacco Products To Minors
8-13-4: Sale Of Smokeless Tobacco Products To Minors
8-13-5: Sale Of Tobacco Accessories And Smoking Herbs To Minors
8-13-6: Signs Required
8-13-7: Penalty
8-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
 
                              Any product or device not consisting or
                              containing tobacco that provides for the
                              ingestion into the body of nicotine, whether by
                              chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving,
                              inhaling, snorting, sniffing, vaporizing or by
                              any other means. The term alternative nicotine
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT: product excludes any product approved by the
                              United States Food and Drug Administration as a
                              non-tobacco product for sale as a tobacco
                              cessation product, as a tobacco dependence
                              product, or for other medical purposes, and is
                              being marketed and sold solely for that approved
                              purpose.
                              A product that contains tobacco that is wrapped
                              in temburni or tendu leaf or that is wrapped in
BIDI CIGARETTES:              any other material identified by rules of the
                              department of public health that is similar in
                              appearance or characteristics to the temburni or
                              tendu leaf.
                              Any electronic device that provides a gas or
                              vapor derived from nicotine and/or other
                              chemicals and inhaled by the user to simulate
                              smoking. The term e-cigarette includes electronic
E-CIGARETTE:                  cigars, electronic pipes, electronic hookah
                              pipes, vape pens, advanced personal vaporizers,
                              box mods or other devices capable of delivering
                              aerosolized nicotine or other chemicals through
                              inhalation.
SMOKELESS TOBACCO:            Any tobacco products that are suitable for
                              dipping or chewing.
                              Smoking herbs include: all substances of plant
                              origins and their derivatives, including, but not
                              limited to, broom, calea, California poppy,
SMOKING HERBS:                damiana, hops, ginseng, lobelia, jimsonweed and
                              other member of the datura genus, passion flower,
                              and wild lettuce which are processed or sold
                              primarily for use as smoking materials.
                              Cigarette papers, pipes, holders of smoking
                              materials of all types, cigarette rolling
TOBACCO ACCESSORIES:          machines, and other items designed primarily for
                              the smoking or ingestion of tobacco products or
                              of substances made illegal under law. (Ord. 0-32-
                              01, 8-20-2001; amd. Ord. 0-23-19, 9-3-2019)
 
8-13-2: PURCHASE OR POSSESSION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS:
No minor under twenty one (21) years of age shall buy or have in his or her
possession any cigar, cigarette, e-cigarette, smokeless tobacco, alternative
nicotine product, or tobacco in any of its forms. No person regardless of age
shall purchase or possess bidi cigarettes. (Ord. 0-32-01, 8-20-2001; amd. Ord.
0-23-19, 9-3-2019)
8-13-3: SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO MINORS:
No person shall sell, buy for, distribute samples of or furnish any cigar,
cigarette, e-cigarette, smokeless tobacco, alternative nicotine product, or
tobacco in any of its forms, to any minor under twenty one (21) years of age.
Tobacco products listed in this section may be sold through a vending machine
only in the following locations:
   (A)   Factories, businesses, offices, private clubs and other places not
open to the general public.
   (B)   Places to which minors under twenty one (21) years of age are not
permitted access.
   (C)   Places where alcoholic beverages are sold and consumed on the
premises.
   (D)   Places where the vending machine is under the direct supervision of
the owner of the establishment or an employee over eighteen (18) years of age.
The sale of tobacco products from a vending machine under the direct
supervision of the owner or an employee of the establishment is considered a
sale of tobacco products by that person. As used in this subsection, "direct
supervision" means the owner or employee has an unimpeded line of sight to the
vending machine.
   (E)   Places where the vending machine can only be operated by the owner or
employee over the age of eighteen (18) years either directly or through a
remote control device if the device is inaccessible to all customers. (Ord. 0-
32-01, 8-20-2001; amd. Ord. 0-23-19, 9-3-2019)
8-13-4: SALE OF SMOKELESS TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO MINORS:
No person shall sell any smokeless tobacco product to any person under the age
of twenty one (21) No person shall distribute or cause to be distributed to any
person under the age of twenty-one (21) without charge or at a normal cost, any
smokeless tobacco product. (Ord. 0-32-01, 8-20-2001; amd. Ord. 0-23-19, 9-3-
2019)
8-13-5: SALE OF TOBACCO ACCESSORIES AND SMOKING HERBS TO MINORS:
No person shall knowingly sell, barter, exchange, deliver, or give away or
cause or permit or procure to be sold, bartered, exchanged, delivered, given
away tobacco accessories or smoking herbs to any person under twenty one (21)
years of age, or bidi cigarettes to any person regardless of age. (Ord. 0-32-
01, 8-20-2001; amd. Ord. 0-23-19, 9-3-2019)
8-13-6: SIGNS REQUIRED:
Any person, firm, partnership, company or corporation operating a place of
business where tobacco accessories and smoking herbs are sold or offered for
sale shall post in a conspicuous place upon the premises a sign upon which
there shall be imprinted the following statement:
   SALE OF TOBACCO ACCESSORIES AND SMOKING HERBS TO PERSONS UNDER TWENTY-ONE
YEARS OF AGE OR THE MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE TO PROCURE SUCH A SALE IS
PROHIBITED BY LAW.
No person may sell or offer to sell cigarettes at retail, or sell cigarettes at
retail using a cigarette vending machine, unless a health warning sign is
posted in a conspicuous place with the following message:
   SURGEON GENERAL'S WARNING: SMOKING BY PREGNANT WOMEN MAY RESULT IN FETAL
INJURY, PREMATURE BIRTH, AND LOW BIRTH WEIGHT.
The signs shall be printed on white card in red letters at least one-half inch
(1/2") in height. (Ord. 0-32-01, 8-20-2001; amd. Ord. 0-23-19, 9-3-2019)
8-13-7: PENALTY:
   (A)   Fine: Any person violating the provisions of sections
8-13-2 and
8-13-6 of this chapter shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). Any person violating
the provisions of sections
8-13-3,
8-13-4, or
8-13-5 of this chapter shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the first offense
within a twelve (12) month period.
   (B)   Subsequent Violations Within Twelve (12) Months: Any person violating
the provisions of sections
8-13-3,
8-13-4, or
8-13-5 of this chapter shall, upon a finding of guilty by a court of competent
jurisdiction, be fined not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the second offense in a twelve (12)
month period, and not less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the third and any subsequent offense in a
twelve (12) month period. (Ord. 0-32-01, 8-20-2001; amd. Ord. 0-23-19, 9-3-
2019)
CHAPTER 14
DAMAGE TO PROPERTY
SECTION:
8-14-1: Criminal Damage To Property
8-14-2: Graffiti
8-14-3: Penalty
8-14-1: CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
A person commits criminal damage to property when:
   (A)   He causes damage by any means to the property of another without the
owner's consent.
   (B)   He defaces the property of another without the owner's consent by
using spray paint, any smoke device, any foul smelling substance, or by any
other means. (Ord. 0-11-92, 2-18-1992)
8-14-2: GRAFFITI:
   (A)   Definition: Graffiti shall be defined as the inscription, drawing, or
otherwise placing upon any sidewalk, street, or the surface of any structure or
wall, whether publicly or privately owned, any word, phrase, diagram, symbol,
sketch, or letters wherein the content thereof is visible to any member of the
general public, and contains, without limitation, but merely as illustration,
references to sexual activity or sexual organs, references to criminal
activities or groups involved in criminal activity, swearing or fighting words,
defamatory materials or words about any person, or references to relationships.
   (B)   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to inscribe, draw, or
otherwise place upon any sidewalk, street, or the surface of any structure or
wall, whether publicly or privately owned, any graffiti as defined in this
Section.
      It shall be an affirmative defense to the alleged violation of this
subsection if such activity was undertaken with the prior written consent of
the property owner, and said consent demonstrates that the owner was aware of
the content and method of the inscription to be placed on the sidewalk, street,
structure or wall.
   (C)   Responsibility For The Removal Of Graffiti: It shall be the duty of
the owner of the sidewalk, street, structure, or wall upon which any
inscription or representation prohibited in subsection (A) of this Section to
remove, eradicate, or eliminate such inscription or representation within
fourteen (14) days from the occurrence of the offense. In the event the owner
has failed to eliminate such graffiti, the owner shall be notified via
certified mail or personal notice that he has an additional thirty (30) days to
remove such graffiti. (Ord. 0-11-92, 2-18-1992)
8-14-3: PENALTY:
   (A)   Violation; Fine: Any person or persons violating any of the provisions
of this Chapter shall, upon a judicial finding of such violation, be fined not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00).
   (B)   Compensation And Restitution: The owner of the property shall be
entitled to restitution and compensation for the direct costs incurred in the
repair and restoration of his property to its previous condition from any
person convicted of the offense listed in Section
8-14-1 of this Chapter or subsection
8-14-2(B) of this Chapter, provided that the property owner submits receipts or
other evidence of the costs for the removal or repair of the graffiti and
provided further that the court enters an order of restitution. This
restitution or compensation shall be in addition to any fine or other costs,
and the court may require said restitution or compensation as a condition of
probation, supervision, or conditional discharge. (Ord. 0-11-92, 2-18-1992)
CHAPTER 15
DISORDERLY CONDUCT
SECTION:
8-15-1: Prohibited Conduct
8-15-2: Weapons Restrictions
8-15-3: False Reports And Statements
8-15-4: Penalty
8-15-1: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
A person commits disorderly conduct when he knowingly:
   (A)   Does any act in such an unreasonable manner as to provoke, make or aid
in making a breach of the peace.
   (B)   Fails to obey an order of dispersal by a person known to him to be a
police officer, under circumstances where two (2) or more persons are
committing acts of disorderly conduct in the immediate vicinity, and these acts
are likely to cause alarm, annoyance, serious inconvenience or substantial
harm.
   (C)   Assembles for the purpose of using force or violence to disturb the
public peace with two (2) or more persons.
   (D)   Congregates or assembles in a group of three (3) or more persons,
when:
      1.   A breach of the peace has occurred, or
      2.   Persons under the age of twenty one (21) years are unlawfully in
possession of an alcoholic beverage, or
      3.   Police have received a complaint(s) about said group pertaining to a
breach of the peace, minors drinking or possessing alcoholic beverage, loud
music or other sounds and such actions continue after being requested by a
police officer to cease said action(s).
   (E)   Uses loud, vociferous, obscene, vulgar, or indecent language, or
swears or curses, or yells or shrieks, or makes lewd gestures, in a manner
which will disturb other persons present at such place.
   (F)   Fights, or gives the appearance of fighting, in any area accessible to
the public, except for organized athletic events. For the purpose of this
Section, "accessible to the public" shall include, but not be limited to, any
area where police officers have been called to be present by any person,
whether identified or anonymous, and a police officer is, in fact, present.
   (G)   Allows two (2) or more persons to congregate or assemble on any
property under his control when:
      1.   A breach of the peace has occurred, or
      2.   Persons under the age of twenty one (21) years are unlawfully in
possession of an alcoholic beverage while on said property, or
      3.   Police have received a complaint(s) about said persons pertaining to
a breach of the peace, minors drinking or possessing an alcoholic beverage,
loud music or other sounds and such actions continue after being requested by a
police officer to cease said action(s), or
      4.   A violation of any law or ordinance has occurred or is occurring.
   (H)   Enters upon the property of another for a lewd or unlawful purpose,
and deliberately looks into any dwelling on said property through any window or
other opening in said dwelling. (Ord. 0-11-92, 2-18-1992)
   (I)   Creates or allows to continue any loud or annoying sound prior to six
thirty o'clock (6:30) A.M. or after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on any Monday
through Friday; nor prior to seven thirty o'clock (7:30) A.M. or after ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. on any Saturday or Sunday, when said noise disturbs
another.
It shall be prima facie evidence that said sound is excessively loud when it
can be heard by any person or police officer standing on the paved portion of
the roadway at the approximate location of said sound. (Ord. 0-27-92, 5-4-1992)
8-15-2: WEAPONS RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   Discharging Of Firearms: No person shall discharge or shoot a firearm
within the Municipal boundaries of the City, except for a police officer in the
course of his official duties.
   (B)   Air Rifles: For the purpose of this Section an air rifle or pistol
shall be defined as an "air rifle" as in the 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
535/1, as amended.
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry or possess in a motor
vehicle any air rifle or pistol on the public streets, roads, highways,
sidewalks, or any public land, unless such weapon is unloaded.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any air rifle or
pistol from or across any street, sidewalk, road, highway, public land, or any
public place, except on a safely constructed target range.
   (C)   Miscellaneous Weapons: It shall be unlawful to carry or possess in a
vehicle without authority of law, any firearm, dagger, razor, dangerous knife,
bludgeon, noxious liquid or gas, metal knuckles, or slingshot. (Ord. 0-11-92,
2-18-1992)
8-15-3: FALSE REPORTS AND STATEMENTS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to transmit in any manner, to any Fire Department
or Fire Protection District, a false alarm of fire, nor to activate any
localized fire alarm not directly connected to a Fire Department or Fire
Protection District, knowing at the time of such transmission or activation
that there is no reasonable grounds for believing that such fire exists.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to transmit in any manner to any police officer
or public employee, a report to the effect that any offense has been committed,
knowing at the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable grounds
for believing that such offense has been committed.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to communicate to any police
officer any statement known to be false, when such statement is pertaining to
an official report or incident under investigation. (Ord. 0-11-92, 2-18-1992)
8-15-4: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall,
upon judicial finding, be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 0-11-92, 2-18-1992)
CHAPTER 16
PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY
SECTION:
8-16-1: Definitions
8-16-2: Violation
8-16-3: Penalty
8-16-4: Parental Irresponsibility
8-16-1: DEFINITIONS:
LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian, or given custody, of a minor by a
Circuit Court of the State, but does not include a person appointed guardian or
given custody, of a minor under the "Juvenile Court Act".
MINOR: A person who is above the age of eleven (11) years, but not yet nineteen
(19) years of age. (Ord. 0-11-92, 2-18-1992)
8-16-2: VIOLATION:
The parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor who resides with such
parent or legal guardian, shall be liable for actual damages for the wilful or
malicious acts of such minor which causes injury to a person or property. (Ord.
0-11-92, 2-18-1992)
8-16-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating Section
8-16-2 of this Chapter shall, upon a judicial finding of such guilt, be fined
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). (Ord. 0-11-92, 2-18-1992)
8-16-4: PARENTAL IRRESPONSIBILITY:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a parent or legal guardian of an
unemancipated minor residing with such parent or legal guardian to knowingly or
negligently fail to exercise proper parental responsibility by allowing or
permitting said minor to commit any violation of any City ordinance or State
statute.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this Section shall, upon
judicial finding of such guilt, be fined not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 0-15-93, 4-5-
1993)
CHAPTER 17
ELECTRONIC PAGING DEVICES OR CELLULAR TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICES ON SCHOOL
PROPERTY
SECTION:
8-17-1: Interpretation
8-17-2: Authority Of School Personnel
8-17-3: Prohibitions
8-17-4: Penalty
8-17-1: INTERPRETATION:
It is hereby declared that the educational development of all persons to the
limits of their capacities is a fundamental goal of the people of this city,
that to achieve such goal it is essential to provide a safe and secure learning
environment within the public schools, and that the unrestricted and
unregulated use by students of pocket pagers and similar electronic paging
devices, and cellular telecommunication devices on school grounds or in school
buildings which are owned, occupied, or leased by a school board for school
purposes and activities adversely affects the educational environment, welfare,
and safety of those present. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
interpreted to bar duly authorized school personnel from imposing appropriate
discipline or other sanctions within the school system in addition to any
penalty assessed under this chapter. (Ord. 0-41-93, 11-1-1993)
8-17-2: AUTHORITY OF SCHOOL PERSONNEL:
Exceptions to the restrictions imposed under this chapter may be authorized by
a principal pertaining to school buildings or property under his control;
however, any such exception shall be made in writing and shall be carried on
the person of the individual so exempted. (Ord. 0-41-93, 11-1-1993)
8-17-3: PROHIBITIONS:
   (A)   No student shall use or have in his or her possession any pocket pager
or similar electronic paging device while in any school building or on any
school property, during regular school hours or at any other time, unless the
use or possession of such device by such student has first been allowed as
authorized in section
8-17-2 of this chapter.
   (B)   No student shall use or have in his or her possession any cellular
radio telecommunication device while in any school building or on any school
property, during regular school hours or at any other time, unless the use or
possession of such device by such student has first been allowed as authorized
in section
8-17-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 0-41-93, 11-1-1993)
8-17-4: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be fined not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. 0-41-93, 11-1-1993; amd. Ord. 0-38-04, 10-18-2004)
CHAPTER 18
CABLE TELEVISION RATE REGULATION
SECTION:
8-18-1: Purpose
8-18-2: Regulation Of Basic Cable Rates
8-18-3: Definitions
8-18-4: Basic Cable Rate Filings
8-18-5: Proprietary Information
8-18-6: Effective Date Of Basic Cable Rates
8-18-7: Extensions Of Time To Review Rates
8-18-8: Rate Review
8-18-9: Price Cap Adjustments For External Costs
8-18-10: Remedies For Unreasonable Rates
8-18-11: Participation By Interested Parties
8-18-12: Written Decisions
8-18-13: City Administrator
8-18-14: Penalties
8-18-15: Severability
8-18-1: PURPOSE:
This Chapter is adopted to regulate ratemaking proceedings of the City with
respect to the basic cable service rates of cable operators providing cable
service within the City pursuant to and consistent with rules established by
the FCC in MM Docket No. 92-266, FCC 93-177, as now or hereafter amended, for
the regulation of basic cable service rates (hereinafter referred to as the
"FCC Rule"). (Ord. 0-06-94, 2-7-1994)
8-18-2: REGULATION OF BASIC CABLE RATES:
From and after the effective date of this Chapter, certification by the FCC,
and written notice to cable operators in the City by certified mail, return
receipt requested, all subscriber rates charged by cable operators in the City
for basic cable service, associated equipment and installations shall be
subject to regulation in accordance with the FCC Rule and the provisions of
this Chapter. (Ord. 0-06-94, 2-7-1994)
8-18-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter:
BASIC CABLE SERVICE RATES: The monthly charges for a subscription to the basic
cable service tier, associated equipment and installations.
BASIC CABLE SERVICE TIER: A separately available service tier which
subscription is required for access to any other tier of service, including as
a minimum, but not limited to, all must- carry signals, all PEG channels, and
all domestic television signals other than superstations.
BENCHMARK: A per channel rate of charge for cable service and associated
equipment which the FCC has determined is reasonable.
CABLE ACT OF 1992: The Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act
of 1992.
CABLE OPERATOR: Any person or group of persons:
   (A)   Who provide cable service over a cable system and directly or through
one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in such a cable system; or
   (B)   Who otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any arrangement,
the management and operation of such a cable system.
CHANNEL: A unit of cable service identified and selected by a channel number or
similar designation.
CITY: The City of Darien.
COST OF SERVICE SHOWING: A filing in which the cable operator attempts to show
that the benchmark rate or the price cap is not sufficient to allow the cable
operator to fully recover the costs of providing the basic service tier and to
continue to attract capital.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission.
FCC FORM 393: The form authorized by the Federal Communications Commission for
calculating whether a cable operator's basic cable service rates are reasonable
using the benchmark analysis in the FCC Rule.
GNP-PI: The Gross National Product Price Index published by the Bureau of
Economic Analysis of the United States Department of Commerce.
INITIAL BASIC CABLE RATES: The rates that the cable operator is charging for
the basic cable service tier, including charges for associated equipment and
installations, at the time the City notifies the cable operator of the City's
qualification and intent to regulate basic cable service rates.
MUST CARRY SIGNAL: The signal of any local broadcast station (except
superstations) which is required to be carried on the basic cable service tier.
OPERATOR: Any cable operator as defined herein.
PEG CHANNEL: The channel capacity designated for public, educational, or
governmental use, and facilities and equipment for the use of that channel
capacity.
PRICE CAP: The ceiling set by the FCC on future increases in basic cable
service rates regulated by the City, based on a formula using the final GNP
fixed weight price index (GNP-PI) of the preceding year, reflecting general
increases in the cost of doing business and changes in overall inflation during
that year.
REASONABLE RATE STANDARD: A per channel subscriber rate that is at, or below,
the benchmark or price cap level.
REASONABLE RATES: Initial or proposed basic cable service rates within the
reasonable rate standard or supported by a cost-of-service showing.
SUPERSTATION: Any nonlocal broadcast signal secondarily transmitted by
satellite. (Ord. 0-06-94, 2-7-1994)
8-18-4: BASIC CABLE RATE FILINGS:
   (A)   Initial Basic Cable Rate Schedule: A cable operator shall file with
the City its schedule of current rates for the basic cable service tier,
associated equipment and installation within thirty (30) days after receiving
written notification from the City that the City has been certified by the FCC
to regulate the operator's basic cable service rates and that the City is
qualified and intends to regulate basic cable service rates.
   (B)   Subsequent Basic Cable Rate Schedules: A cable operator that intends
to increase or adjust a rate schedule previously approved by the City shall
file its proposed schedule of rates for the basic cable service tier,
associated equipment and installation with the City Manager not less than
thirty (30) days before the effective date of any such change, including
increases in the average per channel charge that result from reductions in the
number of channels in the basic cable service tier. Such requests may not be
made more often than annually and not until at least one year after
determination of the initial basic cable service rates.
   (C)   Notice To Subscribers: A cable operator who wishes to increase the
rates for the basic cable service tier, associated equipment or installation
shall notify all subscribers at least thirty (30) days before the operator
desires the increase to take effect.
   (D)   Supporting Documentation: A cable operator shall provide the City with
such information, including, but not limited to, completed FCC Form 393, as may
be necessary to determine the reasonableness of the operator's basic cable
service rates under the reasonable rate standard provided by the FCC Rule or
pursuant to a cost-of-service showing. The operator shall provide the City with
such further information as the City Administrator may reasonably request in
determining the reasonableness of the operator's basic cable service rates. If
the operator's initial or proposed rates are submitted for benchmark analysis
and comply with the reasonable rate standard, additional information may be
requested to properly document that the rates comply with that standard. (Ord.
0-06-94, 2-7-1994)
8-18-5: PROPRIETARY INFORMATION:
   (A)   Nondisclosure: To the extent provided in this Section, trade secrets
and commercial information obtained from or provided by a cable operator to
support or determine the reasonableness of a proposed basic cable service rate,
where the trade secrets or information are proprietary, privileged or
confidential, or where disclosure of the trade secrets or information may cause
competitive harm to the cable operator, will not be publicly disclosed by the
City unless required by order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   Nondisclosure Requests: Any such information claimed to be so
privileged, and that part of any document claimed to contain such privileged
information, shall be appropriately marked by the cable operator as a trade
secret, or as privileged, confidential or proprietary commercial information,
and shall be accompanied by a written request for nondisclosure upon submission
to the City. Nondisclosure requests shall identify the portion of the materials
claimed to be privileged from disclosure, shall contain a statement of the
reasons for withholding the information from public inspection, and shall
plainly set forth the facts upon which those reasons are based.
   (C)   Review Of Nondisclosure Requests: Nondisclosure requests will be
reviewed by the City Administrator and will be granted, in whole or in part, if
a preponderance of the evidence demonstrates that the information should be
exempt from disclosure consistent with section 7(g) of the Illinois Freedom of
Information Act or the FCC Rule.
   (D)   Appeals: If a request for nondisclosure is denied by the City
Administrator, the person who submitted the request may, within five (5)
working days after notice of the denial, appeal the decision to the City Mayor.
If the Mayor affirms, in whole or in part, the Manager's decision that the
information is not exempt from disclosure, the person who submitted the request
shall have ten (10) working days to seek a judicial order or an order from the
FCC determining whether the information should be withheld from public
inspection. All notices provided herein will be given by telephone with follow-
up notice in writing. The first day to be counted in computing the time periods
established in this subsection shall be the day after the date of oral notice.
   (E)   Denial Of Public Inspection: If a request for nondisclosure is
granted, in whole or in part, public requests for inspection or copying of such
records shall be denied to the same extent; provided, however, that the City
shall comply with the requirements of the Illinois Freedom of Information Act
and any court or FCC order requiring disclosure. (Ord. 0-06-94, 2-7-1994)
8-18-6: EFFECTIVE DATE OF BASIC CABLE RATES:
   (A)   Initial Basic Cable Rates: Existing basic cable service rates in
effect at the time this Chapter becomes effective shall remain in effect during
initial rate review by the City.
   (B)   Subsequent Basic Cable Rates: Proposed increases in basic cable
service rates shall become effective thirty (30) days after the date of
submission to the City, unless the thirty (30) day deadline is tolled as
provided in Section
8-18-7 of this Chapter. (Ord. 0-06-94, 2-7-1994)
8-18-7: EXTENSIONS OF TIME TO REVIEW RATES:
If the City is unable to expeditiously determine, based upon the material
submitted by the cable operator, whether initial or subsequent basic cable
service rates are within the reasonable rate standard or price cap permitted by
the FCC Rule, or if the cable operator has submitted a cost-of-service showing,
the City shall issue a written order within thirty (30) days of the rate
submission tolling the thirty (30) day deadline for approval or disapproval of
the rates and extending the time for review of the rate submission as follows:
   (A)   An additional ninety (90) days in rate cases not involving cost-of-
service showings if the City needs more time to ensure that a rate is within
the FCC's reasonable rate standards; or
   (B)   An additional one hundred fifty (150) days in cases involving cost-of-
service showings.
If the City fails to take action within the additional time provided herein,
existing rates will remain in effect, and proposed rates will go into effect,
at the end of such extended period, subject to refunds as provided in Section
8-18-10 of this Chapter. (Ord. 0-06-94, 2-7-1994)
8-18-8: RATE REVIEW:
   (A)   FCC Reasonable Rate Standard: If a cable operator submits its initial
basic cable service rates as being in compliance with the FCC's reasonable rate
standard, the rates shall be reviewed using the benchmark analysis in
accordance with FCC Form 393. Based on the City's findings, the initial basic
cable service rates shall be established as follows:
      1.   If the current cable rates are at or below the benchmark, those
rates shall become the initial basic cable rates and the cable operator's rates
will be capped at that level.
      2.   If the current basic cable rates exceed the benchmark, the rates
shall be the greater of the cable operator's per channel rate on September 30,
1992, reduced by ten percent (10%) or the applicable benchmark, adjusted for
inflation and any change in the number of channels occurring between September
30, 1992, and the initial date of regulation.
      3.   If the current basic cable rates exceed the benchmark, but the cable
operator's per channel rate was below the benchmark on September 30, 1992, the
initial basic cable rate shall be the benchmark, adjusted for inflation.
   (B)   Cost-Of-Service Showing: Existing or proposed rates in excess of the
presumptively reasonable levels permitted by the FCC Rule shall be approved
only to the extent they are justified as reasonable by a cost-of-service
showing pursuant to FCC standards for cost-of-service showings. Absent such FCC
cost-of-service standards, cost-of-service showings shall be reviewed pursuant
to generally accepted utility ratemaking methodology. A cost-of-service
determination resulting in an initial rate below the benchmark, or below the
operator's September 30, 1992 rates minus ten percent (10%), will prescribe the
cable operator's initial basic cable service rates. A cost of service
determination resulting in the operator's subsequent rate below the price cap
level or below the operator's then current rate will prescribe the cable
operator's new basic cable service rates.
   (C)   Price Cap Analysis: If a cable operator presents its request for a
rate increase as being in compliance with the FCC's price cap, the City shall
review the rate using the price cap analysis in accordance with the standard
form authorized by the FCC. Based on the City's findings, the basic cable rate
shall be established as follows:
      1.   If the proposed basic cable service rate increase is within the
price cap established by the FCC, the proposed rates shall become the new basic
cable service rates for the operator.
      2.   If the proposed basic cable service rate increase exceeds the price
cap established by the FCC, the City Council shall disapprove the proposed rate
increase and order an increase that is in compliance with the price cap.
   (D)   Burden Of Proof: The cable operator has the burden of proving by a
preponderance of the evidence that its initial or subsequent rates are
reasonable as provided herein.
   (E)   Record Review: All rate submissions, and any comments, views, evidence
and objections pertaining thereto, shall be in writing and shall constitute the
administrative record for review of existing or proposed rates. In the event
that the City orders a public hearing on such initial or subsequent basic cable
service rates, a record of the public hearing shall be made and included as
part of the administrative record for review of such rates.
   (F)   Public Hearings: The City Council may order one or more public
hearings to consider the operator's initial or subsequent basic cable service
rate schedules. All interested persons shall be allowed to express their views,
state their objections or present evidence with respect to such rates and the
rate submittal.
   (G)   Recommended Decision: The City Administrator shall review the
administrative record and provide the City Council with findings and a
recommended decision on the existing or proposed basic cable service rates to
conclude the ratemaking proceeding.
   (H)   City Council Decision: After completion of the ratemaking proceeding,
the City Council shall adopt its decision by ordinance or resolution.
   (I)   Appeal: The City Council's decision concerning basic cable service
rates may be appealed to the FCC in accordance with applicable FCC rules and
regulations. (Ord. 0-06-94, 2-7-1994)
8-18-9: PRICE CAP ADJUSTMENTS FOR EXTERNAL COSTS:
Not more than once annually, the cable operator shall be permitted to adjust
its price-capped basic cable service tier rates to reflect certain external
cost factors to the extent that the increase in cost of these factors exceed
the GNP-PI. These factors include retransmission consent fees, programming
costs, State and local taxes applicable to the provision of cable service,
franchise fees and costs of franchise requirements, but only to the extent
permitted by the FCC Rule.
   (A)   Starting Date For Adjustments: The starting date for measuring changes
in external costs, other than franchise fees and retransmission consent fees,
shall be the date when the City gives written notice pursuant to subsection
8-18-4(A) of this Chapter that it is qualified and intends to regulate basic
cable service rates, or February 28, 1994 1 , whichever occurs first.
   (B)   Franchise Fees: Franchise fees may be included in determining the per
channel rate for the basic cable service tier as of the initial date of rate
regulation hereunder as prescribed in FCC Form 393.
   (C)   Retransmission Consent Fees: Commencing October 6, 1994, new or
additional retransmission consent fees shall be considered as external costs
hereunder, but only for broadcast signals offered on the basic cable service
tier.
   (D)   Programming Costs: To the extent that increases (net of revenues
received by the operator from the programmer) in programming costs for
programming on the basic cable service tier exceed the increase in GNP-PI, the
operator's per channel charges shall be adjusted accordingly; provided,
however, increases in programming costs attributable to program services from a
programmer affiliated with the cable operator shall be capped at the lesser of
the annual incremental increase in such costs or the GNP-PI.
   (E)   Relation To Price Cap: To the extent external cost increases are
greater or less than the GNP-PI for the relevant period, the operator's per
channel charges shall be adjusted accordingly. Per channel charges may not be
increased hereunder if external costs increase at a rate less than the increase
in GNP-PI. Permitted per channel charges shall be decreased on account of
external costs to the extent such costs decrease from previous levels. (Ord. 0-
06-94, 2-7-1994)
 
Notes
1 1. 180 days after the FCC Rule became effective on September 1, 1993.
8-18-10: REMEDIES FOR UNREASONABLE RATES:
If the City determines that an initial or subsequent basic cable service rate
is unreasonable, the City may, consistent with the FCC Rule:
   (A)   Order the cable operator to implement a prospective rate reduction;
   (B)   Order the cable operator to charge a reasonable rate prescribed by the
City;
   (C)   Order the cable operator to refund to subscribers the excess portion
of previously paid rates; provided, however, that the City shall first give the
operator written notice of apparent liability for a subscriber refund and an
opportunity to comment. (Ord. 0-06-94, 2-7-1994)
8-18-11: PARTICIPATION BY INTERESTED PARTIES:
   (A)   Initial Public Notice: Upon receipt of a rate submission from a cable
operator, the City shall cause a public notice of the filing to be published in
a newspaper of general circulation in the City, inviting interested persons to
file written comments, views, evidence or objections to the submission. The
notice shall state the date, time and place for filing such responses, and of
the public hearing if ordered pursuant to subsection
8-18-8(E) of this Chapter.
   (B)   Written Notices: If, subsequent to the initial public notice, the City
extends the thirty (30) day deadline for review of rate submittals, or sets a
public hearing to consider the rate submittal, written notice of the extension,
of the revised schedule for presenting written comments, views, evidence,
objections, responses and replies, and of the date, time and place of the
public hearing, if any, shall be posted at the City Hall and sent by first
class mail to the operator and to all persons who have previously filed written
comments, views, evidence or objections concerning the rate submission.
   (C)   Schedule Of Proceedings: All interested parties shall be given the
opportunity to present written comments, views, evidence or objections
concerning rate submissions as follows:
 
                   30 Day Review       Extended 120 Day    Extended 180 Day
                                       Review              Review
Objections, etc.:  10 days from        35 days from        56 days from
                   submittal           submittal           submittal
Operator's         15 days from        49 days from        77 days from
Response:          submittal           submittal           submittal
Reply To Operator: None                63 days from        91 days from
                                       submittal           submittal
Public Hearing (If Not sooner than 20  Not sooner than 77  Not sooner than 105
Applicable):       days from submittal days from submittal days from submittal
 
Copies of all written comments, views, evidence or objections shall be made
available for public inspection and copying by interested persons, including
the cable operator.
   (D)   Variances: The City Administrator may, for good cause shown, extend
the time available for interested persons to present their written comments,
views, evidence or objections concerning a rate submittal. (Ord. 0-06-94, 2-7-
1994)
8-18-12: WRITTEN DECISIONS:
The City shall issue written decisions and orders in its ratemaking proceedings
as follows:
   (A)   Extension Of Rate Review: Written orders shall be issued as provided
in Section
8-18-7 of this Chapter within thirty (30) days of the rate submission if the
deadline for review of a rate submittal is to be extended or the effective date
of a proposed rate increase is to be tolled during such extension.
   (B)   Operator Records During FCC Benchmark Rate Review: Written orders
shall be issued as provided in Section
8-18-7 of this Chapter within one hundred twenty (120) days of the rate
submittal, in cases not involving cost-of-service showings, directing the cable
operator to keep an accurate account of all amounts received by reason of the
rate in issue and the subscribers on whose behalf such amounts were paid, if a
refund to subscribers is or may be ordered as a remedy for an unreasonable
rate.
   (C)   Operator Records During Cost-of-Service Rate Review: Written orders
shall be issued as provided in Section
8-18-7 of this Chapter within one hundred eighty (180) days of the rate
submittal, in cases involving cost-of-service showings, directing the cable
operator to keep an accurate account of all amounts received by reason of the
rate in issue and the subscribers on whose behalf such amounts were paid, if a
refund to subscribers is or may be ordered as a remedy for an unreasonable
rate.
   (D)   Prospective Rate Reductions: A written order shall be required to
order a cable operator to implement a prospective reduction in basic cable
service rates where necessary to bring rates into compliance with the FCC Rule.
   (E)   Prescriptive Rates: A written order shall be required if the City
determines that a proposed rate is unreasonable and that a specific reasonable
rate for the basic cable service tier, equipment or installation should be
prescribed.
   (F)   Refund Of Unreasonable Rates: A written order shall be required if the
City determines that previously paid rates exceed the reasonable rate standards
set forth in the FCC Rule or are not justified as reasonable by a cost-of-
service showing and that the cable operator should refund previously paid
excess rates to subscribers; provided, however, no refund order shall be issued
until the City has issued a written notice of apparent liability for a refund
to the cable operator providing the operator the opportunity to comment on the
apparent refund liability.
   (G)   Rate Approvals And Disapprovals: A written order shall be required if
the City disapproves a rate submittal in whole or in part, or if the City
approves a rate submittal over the objections of interested persons.
   (H)   Miscellaneous: The City may issue such other and further written
orders as may be necessary and appropriate including, but not limited to,
orders to comply with the FCC Rule, orders to regulate the conduct of
ratemaking proceedings, orders to aid in the exercise of the City's
jurisdiction, and orders to prevent evasion of the FCC Rule or this Chapter.
(Ord. 0-06-94, 2-7-1994)
8-18-13: CITY ADMINISTRATOR:
The City Administrator and his or her designees are authorized and directed to
implement, conduct and enforce rate regulation proceedings for the City as
provided herein, consistent with the FCC Rule and this Chapter, including the
issuance of all necessary and appropriate orders. (Ord. 0-06-94, 2-7-1994)
8-18-14: PENALTIES:
In addition to such other remedies as may be provided by law or at equity, a
cable operator that does not comply with this Chapter, a rate decision
hereunder, or a refund order directed specifically at the cable operator, shall
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each such violation. Each day a violation continues shall
be deemed a separate offense.
No such penalty shall be imposed without first giving the operator a written
notice of apparent liability which shall contain a plain and concise statement
of the apparent offense which may warrant a fine and which shall give the
operator not less than ten (10) days to file a written response with the City.
The City Administrator's decision shall be final. (Ord. 0-06-94, 2-7-1994)
8-18-15: SEVERABILITY:
If any section of this Chapter, or any portion thereof, is held invalid or
unconstitutional by any court or administrative agency having competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions hereof. (Ord. 0-06-94, 2-7-1994)
CHAPTER 19
ALARMS
SECTION:
8-19-1: Definitions
8-19-2: Unauthorized Automatic Telephone Alarm
8-19-3: False Alarm Transmission
8-19-4: Maintenance Of Alarm Records
8-19-5: Penalty
8-19-1: DEFINITIONS:
ALARM SYSTEM: Any assembly of equipment, mechanical or electrical, arranged to
signal the occurrence of illegal entry or other events requiring urgent
attention, and to which police personnel are expected to respond, including an
outside visual or audible device attached to a structure. Individual devices
such as smoke detectors or vehicle alarms designed to alert only the owners of
property or occupants of premises shall not be considered as an alarm system
and subject to the limitations and restrictions set forth herein.
ALARM USER: Jointly or severally, any person, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, company or organization which owns, leases, or occupies the
premises or property where an alarm system is maintained.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONE ALARM: A telephone device or telephone attachment which
automatically relays a prerecorded message to report a robbery, burglary, fire,
or other emergency by means of a telephone line.
FALSE ALARM: An alarm system signal requiring a response by police personnel
when a situation requiring such a response does not exist. A "false alarm"
shall not include alarms of the following nature:
   (A)   Responding police personnel discover evidence of forcible or
unauthorized entry, criminal activity or attempted criminal activity.
   (B)   Physical damage or activation caused by a verified electrical service
interruption, the weather or other act of God. (Ord. 0-34-96, 11-4-1996, eff.
1-1-1997)
8-19-2: UNAUTHORIZED AUTOMATIC TELEPHONE ALARM:
No alarm user shall transmit an automatic telephone alarm signal programmed to
connect to any telephone line not specifically authorized by the Darien Area
Dispatch Center to receive the automatic telephone alarm signal. (Ord. 0-34-96,
11-4-1996, eff. 1-1-1997)
8-19-3: FALSE ALARM TRANSMISSION:
No alarm user shall transmit a false alarm. (Ord. 0-34-96, 11-4-1996, eff. 1-1-
1997)
8-19-4: MAINTENANCE OF ALARM RECORDS:
The Police Department shall maintain a record of all alarms received requiring
a response by police personnel. This record shall include the date and time
alarm transmissions were received for each location within the City. The City
shall notify any alarm user either personally or via the United States Postal
Service of each violation of Section
8-19-2 or 8-19-3 of this Chapter along with the prescribed penalty for the
violation.
The accuracy of the alarm records may be appealed to the Chief of Police whose
determination will be final. All appeals must be made within fifteen (15) days
from the date of notice or date of deposit with the United States Postal
Service. (Ord. 0-34-96, 11-4-1996, eff. 1-1-1997)
8-19-5: PENALTY:
Any alarm user violating Section
8-19-2 of this Chapter shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for a second or
subsequent offense.
Any alarm user violating Section
8-19-3 of this Chapter shall receive two (2) warnings within any twelve (12)
month period without a monetary fine.
Any alarm user violating Section
8-19-3 of this Chapter shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for the third or
fourth violation within any twelve (12) month period.
Any alarm user violating Section
8-19-3 of this Chapter shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for the fifth through the ninth
violation within any twelve (12) month period.
Any alarm user violating Section
8-19-3 of this Chapter shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for the tenth and
any subsequent violations within any twelve (12) month period.
All fines prescribed under this Section shall double if not paid within thirty
(30) days of the billing date. (Ord. 0-34-96, 11-4-1996, eff. 1-1-1997)
CHAPTER 20
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
SECTION:
8-20-1: Definitions
8-20-2: Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia
8-20-3: Penalty
8-20-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
                      Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in chapter 8-7 of
CANNABIS:             the "Cannabis Regulation," as if that definition were
                      incorporated herein.
                      Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in section 102 of
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: the "Illinois Controlled Substances Act 1 ," as if that
                      definition were incorporated herein.
                      All equipment, products and materials of any kind which
                      are peculiar to or adapted for use in planting, growing,
                      harvesting, manufacturing, producing, processing,
                      preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, storing,
                      concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
                      introducing into the human body cannabis or a controlled
                      substance in violation of the Cannabis Control Act, the
                      Illinois Controlled Substances Act, chapter 7 of this
                      title, or similar law or local ordinance.
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:   Drug paraphernalia shall include, but not be limited to:
                      water, ice, air-driven, or electric pipes; miniature
                      cocaine spoons or vials; smoking or carburetion pipes,
                      tubes, masks, or other devices; bongs; roach clips; or
                      any item whose purpose, as announced or described by the
                      possessor, or whose actual use as determined by the
                      presence of a controlled substance on, in or near the
                      item, is for use inviolating the Cannabis Control Act,
                      the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, chapter 7 of this
                      title, or similar law or local ordinance. (Ord. 0-26-98,
                      12-7-1998; amd. Ord. 0-12-20, 7-20-2020)
 
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 550/3.
8-20-2: POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
No person under the age of twenty one (21) shall knowingly possess an item of
drug paraphernalia with the intent to use it in ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing cannabis into the human body, or in preparing cannabis
for that use.
No person shall knowingly possess an item of drug paraphernalia with the intent
to use it in ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing a controlled
substance into the human body, or in preparing a controlled substance for that
use.
In determining use or intent under this section, the trier of fact can take
into consideration the general, usual, customary and historical use to which
the item involved has been put, and/or the proximity of the cannabis or
controlled substance to the drug paraphernalia or the presence of cannabis or
controlled substance on the drug paraphernalia. (Ord. 0-26-98, 12-7-1998; amd.
Ord. 0-12-20, 7-20-2020)
8-20-3: PENALTY:
Any person found guilty by a court of competent jurisdiction of having violated
section
8-20-2 of this chapter shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 0-26-98, 12-7-
1998; amd. Ord. 0-12-20, 7-20-2020)
CHAPTER 21
USE OF LASER POINTERS
SECTION:
8-21-1: Definition
8-21-2: Acts Prohibited
8-21-3: Exemptions
8-21-4: Penalty
8-21-1: DEFINITION:
For the purposes of this Chapter, "laser pointer" shall mean any laser pointer,
laser pen, laser sight, or other similar device which emits a laser or a beam
of light commonly referred to as a laser beam. (Ord. 0-09-99, 6-7-1999)
8-21-2: ACTS PROHIBITED:
The following acts in regard to the possession, use and/or sale of laser
pointers are prohibited:
   (A)   Sale To Minors: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell a laser
pointer to any person under the age of eighteen (18).
   (B)   Possession By Minors: It shall be unlawful for any person under the
age of eighteen (18) to possess a laser pointer except in the residence of that
person.
   (C)   Use From Or Off Private Property: It shall be unlawful for any person
located on private property, either inside or outside a building, to use a
laser pointer in such a manner that the laser beam illuminates on any person,
animal, object or place located off the private property or outside of the
building where the person using the laser is located.
   (D)   Use In Public Places: It shall be unlawful for any person to use a
laser pointer on or from any public property, including, but not limited to,
public streets, alleys, sidewalks, parks, or right of ways, or any private
property accessible to the public such as a private parking garage.
   (E)   Use In Places Of Public Assembly: It shall be unlawful for any
unauthorized person to use a laser pointer in any place of public assembly,
including, but not limited to, schools, concert halls, theaters, movie theaters
or any other structure or place at which the public gathers for educational
purposes, lectures, public meetings, entertainment, sporting events, concerts,
plays, dances or similar events, productions and performances. For the purpose
of this subsection, "unauthorized person" shall mean any person who does not
have the express permission of the owner or operator of the place of public
assembly to use a laser pointer in said place.
   (F)   Illumination Of Persons: It shall be unlawful for any person to use a
laser pointer in such a manner that it illuminates on any other person without
the other person's permission.
   (G)   Illumination Of Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person to use a
laser pointer in such a manner as to illuminate any automobile or other
motorized vehicle. (Ord. 0-09-99, 6-7-1999)
8-21-3: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to the officers of the police
force of the City when on duty, nor to persons authorized under the statutes of
this State or of the United States to carry weapons that have laser pointers/
beams. (Ord. 0-09-99, 6-7-1999)
8-21-4: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this Chapter shall, upon conviction,
be fined an amount not less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00), nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each separate violation. (Ord. 0-09-99,
6-7-1999)
CHAPTER 22
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
8-22-1: Definitions
8-22-2: Acts Prohibited
8-22-3: Penalty
8-22-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words, terms and phrases, when
used herein, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
FIREWORKS: Shall mean and include any explosive composition or any substance or
combination of substances or any article prepared for the purpose of producing
a visible or audible effect of a temporary exhibitional nature by explosion,
combustion, deflagration, or detonation, and includes blank cartridges, toy
cannons in which explosives are used, the type of balloons which require fire
underneath to propel the balloons, firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, Roman
candles, bombs, or other fireworks of like construction and any fireworks
containing any explosive compound or any tablet or other device containing any
explosive substance or containing combustible substances producing visual
effects. However, the term "fireworks" shall not include snake or glowworm
pellets; smoke devices; trick noisemakers known as party poppers, booby traps,
snappers, trick matches, cigarette loads, and auto burglar alarms; wire
sparklers, toy pistols; toy cannons; toy guns; or other devices in which paper
or plastic caps containing 0.25 grains or less of explosive compound are used,
provided they are so constructed that the hand cannot come into contact with
the cap when in place for the explosion; and toy pistol paper or plastic caps
which contain less than 0.20 grains of explosive mixture.
SMOKE DEVICE: A tube or sphere containing a pyrotechnic composition that, upon
ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
SNAKE/GLOWWORM: Pressed pellets of pyrotechnic composition that produce a
large, snake-like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as the pellet
burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
TRICK NOISEMAKER: An item that produces a small report intended to surprise the
user.
WIRE SPARKLER: Wire coated with a pyrotechnic composition that produces a
shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain magnesium and must
not exceed one hundred grams (100 g) of composition per item. Devices
containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams (5 g) of
composition per item. These items include the following:
   (A)   Auto Burglar Alarm: A tube which contains a pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle and/or smoke when ignited. A small quantity of
explosive, not exceeding fifty milligrams (50 mg), may be used to produce a
small report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
   (B)   Booby Trap: A small tube with a string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
   (C)   Cigarette Load: A small wooden peg that has been coated with a small
quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette containing one
of the pegs, a small report is produced.
   (D)   Party Popper: A small plastic or paper item containing not more than
sixteen milligrams (16 mg) of explosive composition that is friction sensitive.
A string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streams and producing a small report.
   (E)   Snapper: A small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity of
explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped the devices
explode, producing a small report.
   (F)   Trick Match: A kitchen or book match that has been coated with a small
quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the match, a
small report or a shower of sparks is produced. (Ord. 0-21-04, 6-21-2004)
8-22-2: ACTS PROHIBITED:
The following acts in regard to possession, sale and/or use of fireworks are
prohibited:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to possess, sell, exhibit for sale, offer for
sale, shoot, explode or otherwise use or exhibit fireworks, firecrackers,
torpedoes, Roman candles, skyrockets, cherry bombs, M-80s, or other pyrotechnic
displays within the corporate limits of the city of Darien, except as provided
in 425 Illinois Compiled Statutes 35/2.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to sell or use sparklers on any public property
within the corporate limits of the city of Darien. (Ord. 0-21-04, 6-21-2004)
8-22-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less than
twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. 0-21-04, 6-21-2004)
CHAPTER 23
CRIME FREE RESIDENTIAL HOUSING REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
8-23-1: Definitions
8-23-2: Crime Free Lease Addendum Required
8-23-3: Existing Month To Month Tenancies; Future Oral Leases
8-23-4: Nuisance Residential Rental Property Violations By Tenants
8-23-5: Violation Of Crime Free Lease Addendum By Landlord; Preenforcement Due
Process; Additional Limitation
8-23-6: License Required
8-23-7: Application For License
8-23-8: License Fee
8-23-9: Term Of License; Transfer Prohibited; Renewal
8-23-10: Crime Free Housing Seminar Required
8-23-11: Enforcement
8-23-12: Penalty
8-23-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following words, terms and phrases, when used
herein, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
COVERED RESIDENTIAL RENTAL UNIT: Any rented residential unit in a multi-family
building consisting of ten (10) or more dwelling units. Regardless of whether
the building is an apartment building or in a building under condominium or
similar ownership which allows individual units to be rented by the owner
thereof or by a management entity.
CRIME FREE LEASE ADDENDUM: A provision which makes it a violation of the lease
for a tenant, occupant of the premises, a guest of the tenant or occupant of
the premises, or any other party under the control of the tenant or occupant of
the premises with the permission or consent of the tenant or an occupant of the
premises to engage in, facilitate, or conspire to commit criminal activity
while on the leased premises. A crime free lease addendum shall provide the
landlord with the authority to evict the tenant in accordance with the Illinois
forcible entry and detainer statute, 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/9-101 et
seq., if it is established by a preponderance of the evidence that a violation
of the crime free lease addendum has occurred.
LANDLORD: An owner, administrator, manager, or person in control of the
operation of a covered residential rental unit.
TENANT: Any individual who is a signed lessee of a covered residential rental
unit. (Ord. 0-06-14, 3-3-2014)
8-23-2: CRIME FREE LEASE ADDENDUM REQUIRED:
The requirements of this section shall apply to all written leases entered into
with an effective date of September 1, 2014, or thereafter.
   (A)   Every written lease or other agreement for rental of any covered
residential rental unit shall contain a crime free lease addendum or have a
clause in the lease similar to a crime free lease addendum. The office of the
city administrator shall provide at no cost samples of a crime free lease
addendum and shall review any clauses within actual leases with the city
attorney to determine if the clause is consistent with the crime free lease
addendum contained herein.
   (B)   A lease which contains the "(prototype) crime free lease addendum" set
forth hereinbelow shall be deemed to be in full compliance with the
requirements of this section:
   Crime-Free Lease Addendum
   For the rental unit located at:
                              (address), Darien, IL 60561
In consideration of the execution or renewal of a lease of the dwelling unit
identified in the lease, Owner (or Owner's agent or representative) and Tenant
agree as follows:
1. Neither the Tenant, any member of the Tenant's household, any guest or any
other person associated with the Tenant on or near the leased premises:
   A. shall engage in criminal activity at or near the leased premises.
   B. shall engage in any act at or near the leased premises intended to
facilitate criminal activity.
   C. shall permit the rental dwelling unit to be used for or to facilitate any
criminal activity.
   D. shall engage in any act intended to facilitate any violation of City
ordinances or codes or any other violation as defined by local, state or
federal law.
   E. shall engage in any act intended to obstruct or resist law enforcement
efforts against criminal activity at or near the rental unit or common areas.
   F. shall permit the rental unit to be used for or to facilitate any
violation of state, federal or local law.
2. VIOLATION OF ANY OF THE ABOVE PROVISIONS SHALL BE A MATERIAL, AND
IRREPARABLE VIOLATION OF THE LEASE AND GOOD CAUSE FOR TERMINATION OF THE
TENANCY. A single violation of any provision of this added Addendum shall be
deemed a serious violation and material non-compliance with the lease. Any
violation of the above provisions will still be considered a violation
regardless of whether or not the Tenant could not control the behavior of other
occupants of the unit, could not foresee, or did not have knowledge of the
violation. It is understood and agreed that a single violation shall be good
cause for IMMEDIATE termination of the lease under the Illinois Compiled
Statutes. Unless otherwise provided by law, proof of violation shall not
require criminal conviction, BUT SHALL BE BY PREPONDERANCE OF THE EVIDENCE.
Preponderance of the evidence can be determined by but not limited to a police
report, police citations, information received from the police department or a
police officer, or any observations made by the landlord or his agent.
3. Tenant consents to venue in the Eighteenth Judicial Circuit in DuPage
County, Illinois, in the event Owner initiates legal action against the Tenant.
4. Tenant agrees that service of process of any legal proceeding, including but
not limited to, a special detainer or forcible detainer action, or service of
any notice to Tenant, shall be effective and sufficient of purpose of providing
legal service and conferring personal jurisdiction upon any Illinois court as
to any Tenant, co-signer, occupant or guarantor, if waived upon any occupant or
other person of suitable age and discretion who is present at the premises and
residing therein, notwithstanding the fact that a Tenant, co-signer, occupant
or guarantor may reside at a different location other than the property address
described in the lease agreement. This agreement regarding service is in
addition to, and not in lieu of, any manner of service authorized under
Illinois law or rule. By signing this lease, the undersigned hereby waives any
objection to service carried out under the terms of this agreement. This
provision shall be effective for any extension, renewal or modification of the
Initial Lease.
   (C)   In the event the landlord initiates eviction proceedings based on the
tenant's violation of the crime free lease addendum, the city will, at no
charge to the landlord and without the necessity for subpoena, cooperate by
arranging for city staff who have relevant information, to testify at any such
legal proceeding.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall require or authorize a landlord to
enforce the crime free lease addendum against a tenant as a result of any
activity which might otherwise be a violation of the crime free lease addendum
when the tenant himself or herself is the victim of criminal activity. (Ord. 0-
06-14, 3-3-2014)
8-23-3: EXISTING MONTH TO MONTH TENANCIES; FUTURE ORAL LEASES:
   (A)   The landlord of every covered residential rental unit for which no
written lease agreement exists (tenancy at will) including, but not limited to,
a month to month oral leasehold as of the effective date hereof shall require
the tenant at will to enter into a crime free lease addendum in writing within
ninety (90) days of the effective date hereof.
   (B)   The landlord of every covered residential rental unit who enters into
an oral lease agreement more than ninety (90) days after the date hereof shall
require the tenant to execute a crime free lease addendum. (Ord. 0-06-14, 3-3-
2014)
8-23-4: NUISANCE RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY VIOLATIONS BY TENANTS:
It is hereby declared a public nuisance and a danger to the public safety,
health, welfare and morals of the city and its residents for any tenant of
residential property to:
   (A)   Knowingly allow any of the following offenses to occur on the premises
being rented or leased by the tenant: murder, kidnapping, aggravated
kidnapping, prostitution, solicitation of prostitution, pandering, obscenity,
child pornography, harmful materials, sale of obscene publications, criminal
housing management, possession of explosives, unlawful use of weapons, sale of
firearms, gambling, keeping a gambling place, concealing a fugitive, violation
of the Illinois controlled substances act, violation of the cannabis control
act, or commission of any two (2) or more offenses by imprisonment for a period
of more than six (6) months under the laws of the state of Illinois or the
United States.
   (B)   Knowingly allow any of the following offenses to occur on the premises
being rented by the tenant: commission of three (3) or more city ordinance
violations in a twelve (12) month period or an unreasonably high number of
calls for police service including, but not limited to, calls that may fall
within the descriptions listed in subsection (A) of this section that when
compared to other properties in the city of Darien of similar type, reasonably
indicates that activity on the rented premises is adversely affecting the
health, safety, welfare or morals of other persons residing in the area. (Ord.
0-06-14, 3-3-2014)
8-23-5: VIOLATION OF CRIME FREE LEASE ADDENDUM BY LANDLORD; PREENFORCEMENT DUE
PROCESS; ADDITIONAL LIMITATION:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any landlord to permit any tenant to occupy
any covered residential rental unit in violation of any provisions of the crime
free lease addendum required by this chapter.
   (B)   In the event the city brings an action based on nuisance covered
residential rental unit property violations by a tenant, the city shall not
join the landlord as a party unless required by court order.
   (C)   No enforcement action shall be filed against a landlord unless the
city first notifies the landlord of the claimed violation and offers the
landlord an opportunity to meet with city representatives in order to determine
whether the claimed violation may be resolved short of a judicial enforcement
proceeding. Absent an emergency, such preenforcement notice and opportunity to
be heard will be given to the landlord at least twenty one (21) days prior to
the initiation of any enforcement action. (Ord. 0-06-14, 3-3-2014)
8-23-6: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No individual or entity shall engage in the business of renting covered
residential rental units to the public unless a valid and current residential
rental license has been issued by the city clerk for the specific location.
(Ord. 0-06-14, 3-3-2014)
8-23-7: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for residential rental license shall be made in the name of the
legal owner of the premises to be rented and submitted to the city clerk on
forms provided by the city. The application shall identify the location of the
premises, the name, address and telephone number of the owner, the name,
address and telephone number of the manager of the premises, the owner's agent
for service of process and such other information as the city may reasonably
require on the application form. (Ord. 0-06-14, 3-3-2014)
8-23-8: LICENSE FEE:
The annual fee for a residential rental license shall be paid at the time of
application in an amount equal to ten dollars ($10.00) per rental unit. (Ord.
0-06-14, 3-3-2014)
8-23-9: TERM OF LICENSE; TRANSFER PROHIBITED; RENEWAL:
A residential rental license shall be issued for a period of one calendar year
and shall expire on April 30 of the year of issuance. Such licenses are not
transferable. Each new owner of a building that contains a covered residential
rental unit must obtain a license. Application for renewal shall be made in the
same manner as for a new license. No license shall be issued or renewed until
payment in full of all license and inspection fees has been made. (Ord. 0-06-
14, 3-3-2014)
8-23-10: CRIME FREE HOUSING SEMINAR REQUIRED:
All persons applying for a residential rental license and all persons
administering, managing, or controlling the operation of any covered
residential rental unit must attend a crime free, multi-housing seminar
administered by the city's police department prior to issuance of the license.
Each licensee shall attend the seminar every three (3) years. In the event a
new owner acquires the rental dwelling for which a license has been issued and/
or a new manager is hired, the new owner and/or manager shall have three (3)
months after acquisition or hire to attend the seminar. The city shall issue a
written notice to every person or entity subject to this training requirement
advising as of the obligation. If the training requirements are not satisfied
within three (3) months from the date of the notice, said person or entity
shall be subject to a fine of up to fifty dollars ($50.00) per day. Each day
shall be considered a separate violation. (Ord. 0-06-14, 3-3-2014)
8-23-11: ENFORCEMENT:
Subject to the approval of the city council, the city administrator or his
designee may seek appropriate injunctive relief to prevent continuing violation
of this chapter. The city administrator or his designee shall have the duty to
enforce the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 0-06-14, 3-3-2014)
8-23-12: PENALTY:
Whoever violates, fails to comply with or resists the enforcement of any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be subject to citation and a fine of not less
than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00). A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day a
violation exists. (Ord. 0-06-14, 3-3-2014)
TITLE 9
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Vehicle Restrictions On Public Ways   1
Traffic Signs And Signal Locations   2
Parking Restrictions   3
Public Parking Areas   4
Vehicle Code   5
Traffic Restrictions On Private Property   6
Administrative Hearing System   7
Seizure And Impoundment Of Vehicles   8
Administrative Fees   9
CHAPTER 1
VEHICLE RESTRICTIONS ON PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Scope And Effect
9-1-2: Vehicle Restrictions
9-1-3: Projecting Loads On Passenger Vehicles
9-1-4: Trailers And Towed Vehicles
9-1-5: Specific Routes Designated
9-1-6: Planks To Protect Pavement
9-1-7: Debris On Roads
9-1-8: Liability For Damage
9-1-9: Negligent Driving
9-1-10: Seat Safety Belt Usage Required
9-1-11: Reserved
9-1-12: Reserved
9-1-13: Reserved
9-1-14: Reserved
9-1-15: Reserved
9-1-16: Reserved
9-1-17: Reserved
9-1-18: Reserved
9-1-19: Reserved
9-1-20: Penalties
9-1-1: SCOPE AND EFFECT:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move or for the owner to
cause or knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any street or highway any
vehicle or vehicles of a size and weight exceeding the limitations stated in
this chapter, or otherwise in violation of this chapter.
   (B)   The provisions hereof governing size, weight and load shall not apply
to fire apparatus, equipment designed for snow and ice removal operations on
highways and owned or operated by the state of Illinois or any political
subdivision thereof, or to a vehicle operated under the terms of a special
permit issued as herein provided. (Ord. 0-32-72, 10-16-1972)
9-1-2: VEHICLE RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   Width Of Vehicles: The maximum width of any vehicle and its load shall
not exceed eight feet (8'); provided, however, that mirrors may project up to
six inches (6") beyond each side of a vehicle and such projection shall not be
deemed a violation of the above width restrictions in this subsection.
   (B)   Height Of Vehicles: The height of a vehicle from the underside of the
tire to the top of the vehicle, inclusive of load, shall not exceed thirteen
feet six inches (13'6").
   (C)   Length Of Vehicles:
      1.   Except as provided in subsection (C)2 of this section, no straight
vehicle, unladen or with load, shall exceed a length of forty two feet (42').
      2.   No truck tractor or semitrailer, unladen or with load, shall exceed
a length of fifty five feet (55'), except that such combination when specially
designed to transport motor vehicles may have a length of sixty feet (60').
      3.   Length limitation shall not apply to vehicles operated in the
daytime when transporting poles, pipe, machinery or other objects of a
structural nature which cannot readily be dismembered, nor to such vehicles
transporting such objects operated at nighttime by a public utility when
required for emergency repair of public service facilities or properties, but
in respect to such night transportation, every such vehicle and the load
thereon shall be equipped with a sufficient number of clearance lamps on both
sides and marker lamps upon the extreme ends of any projecting load to clearly
mark the dimensions of such load.
      4.   The load upon any vehicle shall not extend more than three feet (3')
beyond the front wheels of such vehicle or the front bumper of such vehicle if
it is equipped with such a bumper. (Ord. 0-32-72, 10-16-1972)
   (D)   Weight Of Vehicles:
      1.   Except for public works vehicles and other vehicles authorized to do
so by the city, no vehicle with a gross weight in excess of ten thousand
(10,000) pounds shall use any street other than thoroughfares within the city,
except as provided in section
9-1-5 of this chapter.
      2.   No vehicle with a gross weight in excess of forty thousand (40,000)
pounds shall at any time use any city street without obtaining a written permit
approved by the city engineer and the chief of police. (Ord. 0-32-72-C, 1-20-
1975)
   (E)   Types Of Vehicles: All vehicles using any city street shall be of the
rubber tire type. Metal traction tread types of vehicles are prohibited except
for road construction. (Ord. 0-32-72, 10-16-1972)
9-1-3: PROJECTING LOADS ON PASSENGER VEHICLES:
No passenger type vehicle shall be operated on any street or highway with any
load carried thereon extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side
of such vehicle nor extending more than six inches (6") beyond the line of the
fenders on the right side thereof. (Ord. 0-32-72, 10-16-1972)
9-1-4: TRAILERS AND TOWED VEHICLES:
When one vehicle is towing another vehicle or trailer, in addition to a drawbar
of sufficient strength to pull the weight towed, there shall be attached two
(2) safety chains or cables which shall be attached to the frame of the towed
vehicle or trailer independently of the drawbar, and thence to the towing
vehicle frame independently of the drawbar. Such chain or cable shall be of
sufficient strength to prevent the towed vehicle or trailer from parting from
the towing vehicle should the drawbar break or become disengaged. (Ord. 0-32-
72-A, 2-5-1973)
9-1-5: SPECIFIC ROUTES DESIGNATED:
All vehicles with a gross weight of ten thousand (10,000) pounds or more may
use streets other than thoroughfares for deliveries and pick ups provided that,
at all times, the shortest possible route to its destination shall be used. At
no time, other than when making a delivery, shall any such vehicle park on any
street other than a thoroughfare unless authorized by the city, or otherwise
use any street other than a thoroughfare for a through street or take a route
other than the shortest street route back to a thoroughfare. (Ord. 0-32-72-C,
1-20-1975)
9-1-6: PLANKS TO PROTECT PAVEMENT:
No tractor, traction engine or other metal tired vehicle, weighing more than
four (4) tons, including the weight of the vehicle and its load, shall drive up
onto, off or over the edge of any paved street or highway in the city without
protecting such edge by putting down solid planks or other suitable device to
prevent such vehicle from breaking off the edge or corners of such pavement.
(Ord. 0-32-72, 10-16-1972)
9-1-7: DEBRIS ON ROADS:
   (A)   Debris From Vehicles: No vehicle shall be driven on any street or
highway unless such vehicle is constructed and loaded so as to prevent any of
its load from dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom.
   (B)   Mud Or Debris From Construction Sites; Removal Required: No vehicle
shall track or otherwise leave or drop mud or debris from any construction site
or site where work is in progress onto any street within the city and those
responsible for tracking, leaving or dropping mud or debris shall remove such
mud or debris so as to at all times maintain a safe condition on the street,
but in any event, within eight (8) hours of such tracking, leaving or dropping.
(Ord. 0-32-72, 10-16-1972)
   (C)   Obstructing Snow Removal: No person shall remove, or cause to be
removed, any snow and/or ice from any private property and deposit the same
upon any public street or sidewalk. (Ord. 0-44-01, 11-19-2001)
9-1-8: LIABILITY FOR DAMAGE:
Any person driving any vehicle, object or contrivance upon any street or
highway or highway structure is liable for all damage which the street or
highway or highway structure may sustain as a result of any illegal operation,
driving or moving of such vehicle, object or contrivance, or as a result of
operating, driving or moving any vehicle, object or contrivance weighing in
excess of the maximum weight specified. (Ord. 0-32-72, 10-16-1972)
9-1-9: NEGLIGENT DRIVING:
It shall be unlawful for any person upon any street, in any parking lot or in
any area accessible to the public, to needlessly race the motor of any motor
vehicle, needlessly bring to a sudden start or stop any motor vehicle or make a
U-turn or any other maneuver with a motor vehicle which causes the tires to
screech or squeal, which results in a deposit of tire rubber or a tire mark on
the surface of the street or parking lot, or which, because of excessive
acceleration, causes the drive wheels of the vehicle to spin so rapidly that
full traction is not maintained between the tire and street or parking lot
surface. This section shall not apply when additional acceleration is needed to
remove a vehicle from ice, snow, gravel or mud. (Ord. 0-35-82, 9-7-1982; amd.
Ord. 0-47-91, 7-15-1991)
9-1-10: SEAT SAFETY BELT USAGE REQUIRED:
   (A)   Definitions:
      1.   The terms "highway", "motor vehicle", "owner", "police officer",
"recreational vehicle", "roadway", and "street" as used in this section, unless
the context otherwise requires, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the
Illinois vehicle code 1 , and as amended from time to time. For purposes of
this section, "motor vehicle" does not include motorcycles.
      2.   For the purposes of this section, "child restraint system" means any
device which meets the standards of the United States department of
transportation designed to restrain, seat or position children, which also
includes a booster seat.
      3.   For the purposes of this section, "seat safety belts" means a set of
belts or a harness meeting the specifications established by the United States
department of transportation and installed in such manner as to prevent or
materially reduce the movement of the person using the belts or harness in the
event of collision of the vehicle.
   (B)   Seat Safety Belts:
      1.   No person shall operate any 1965 or later model motor vehicle of the
first division that is titled or licensed by the Illinois secretary of state
unless the front seat of such motor vehicle is equipped with two (2) sets of
seat safety belts.
      2.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) years shall operate any
motor vehicle, except a motor driven cycle or motorcycle, with more than one
passenger in the front seat of the motor vehicle, and no more passengers in the
back seat than the number of available seat safety belts, except that each
driver under the age of eighteen (18) years operating a second division vehicle
having a gross vehicle weight rating of eight thousand (8,000) pounds or less
that contains only a front seat may operate the vehicle with more than one
passenger in the front seat, provided that each passenger is wearing a properly
adjusted and fastened seat safety belt.
   (C)   Driver And Passenger Required To Use Safety Belts; Exceptions:
      1.   Each driver and front seat passenger of a motor vehicle operated on
a street or highway shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened seat safety
belt; except that, a child less than eight (8) years of age shall be protected
as required by subsection (D) of this section. Each driver under the age of
eighteen (18) years and each of the driver's passengers under the age of
eighteen (18) years of a motor vehicle operated on a street or highway shall
wear a properly adjusted and fastened seat safety belt. Each driver of a motor
vehicle transporting a child eight (8) years of age or more, but less than
sixteen (16) years of age, in the front seat of the motor vehicle shall secure
the child in a properly adjusted and fastened seat safety belt.
      2.   Subsection (C)1 of this section shall not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   A driver or passenger frequently stopping and leaving the
vehicle or delivering property from the vehicle, if the speed of the vehicle
between stops does not exceed fifteen (15) miles per hour;
         (b)   A driver or passenger possessing a written statement from a
physician that such person is unable, for medical or physical reasons, to wear
a seat safety belt;
         (c)   A driver or passenger possessing an official certificate or
license endorsement issued by the appropriate agency in another state or
country indicating that the driver or passenger is unable for medical,
physical, or other valid reasons to wear a seat safety belt;
         (d)   A driver operating a motor vehicle in reverse;
         (e)   A motor vehicle with a model year prior to 1965;
         (f)   A motorcycle or motor driven cycle;
         (g)   A motorized pedalcycle;
         (h)   A motor vehicle which is not required to be equipped with seat
safety belts under federal law; or
         (i)   A motor vehicle operated by a rural letter carrier of the United
States postal service while performing as a rural letter carrier.
      3.   Failure to wear a seat safety belt in violation of this subsection
shall not be considered evidence of negligence, shall not limit the liability
of an insurer, and shall not diminish any recovery for damages arising out of
the ownership, maintenance, or operation of a motor vehicle.
      4.   A police officer may not search or inspect a motor vehicle, its
contents, the driver, or a passenger solely because of a violation of this
subsection.
   (D)   Child Passenger Requirements:
      1.   Transporting Child Under Age Of Eight; Restraint System: When any
person is transporting a child under the age of eight (8) years in a
noncommercial motor vehicle of the first division, a motor vehicle of the
second division with a gross vehicle weight rating of nine thousand (9,000)
pounds or less, or a recreational vehicle on the roadways, streets or highways,
such person shall be responsible for providing for the protection of such child
by properly securing him or her in an appropriate child restraint system. The
parent or legal guardian of a child under the age of eight (8) years shall
provide a child restraint system to any person who transports his or her child.
Any person who transports the child of another shall not be in violation of
this subsection unless a child restraint system was provided by the parent or
legal guardian but not used to transport the child.
A child weighing more than forty (40) pounds may be transported in the back
seat of a motor vehicle while wearing only a lap belt if the back seat of the
motor vehicle is not equipped with a combination lap and shoulder belt.
      2.   Children Eight Years Of Age Or Older But Under Age Of Sixteen: Every
person, when transporting a child eight (8) years of age or older but under the
age of sixteen (16), as provided in subsection (D)1 of this section, shall be
responsible for properly securing the child in seat belts.
      3.   Children Eight Years Of Age Or Older But Under Age Of Eighteen:
Every person under the age of eighteen (18) years, when transporting a child
eight (8) years of age or older but under the age of eighteen (18) years, as
provided in subsection (D)1 of this section, shall be responsible for securing
the child in a properly adjusted and fastened seat safety belt or an
appropriate child restraint system.
      4.   Children With Physical Disabilities: The provisions of this
subsection (D) shall not apply to a child passenger with a physical disability
of such a nature as to prevent appropriate restraint in a seat, provided that
the disability is duly certified by a physician who shall state the nature of
the disability, as well as the reason the restraint is inappropriate. No
physician shall be liable, and no cause of action may be brought for personal
injuries resulting from the exercise of good faith judgment in making
certifications under this subsection. (Ord. 0-20-04, 6-21-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.
9-1-11: RESERVED:
(Ord. 0-20-04, 6-21-2004)
9-1-12: RESERVED:
(Ord. 0-20-04, 6-21-2004)
9-1-13: RESERVED:
(Ord. 0-20-04, 6-21-2004)
9-1-14: RESERVED:
(Ord. 0-20-04, 6-21-2004)
9-1-15: RESERVED:
(Ord. 0-20-04, 6-21-2004)
9-1-16: RESERVED:
(Ord. 0-20-04, 6-21-2004)
9-1-17: RESERVED:
(Ord. 0-20-04, 6-21-2004)
9-1-18: RESERVED:
(Ord. 0-20-04, 6-21-2004)
9-1-19: RESERVED:
(Ord. 0-20-04, 6-21-2004)
9-1-20: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, other than
subsection
9-1-7(C), section
9-1-5 or subsection
9-1-2(D) of this chapter, shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   (B)   Any person violating section
9-1-5 or subsection
9-1-2(D) of this chapter shall, upon a judicial finding of such violation, be
fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00).
   (C)   Any person violating subsection
9-1-7(C) of this chapter shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00)
nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 0-44-01, 11-19-2001; amd.
Ord. 0-20-04, 6-21-2004)
CHAPTER 2
TRAFFIC SIGNS AND SIGNAL LOCATIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Installation Of Signs
9-2-2: Stop Signs
9-2-3: No Through Traffic Signs
9-2-4: Speed Limit Signs
9-2-5: Yield Signs
9-2-6: No Right Turn Signs
9-2-7: Left Turn Only Signs
9-2-8: No Left Turn Signs
9-2-1: INSTALLATION OF SIGNS:
The chief of police, or any other person authorized by the mayor pursuant to
this chapter, shall cause traffic signs to be placed at the locations set forth
below for the protection of the residents of the city. It is hereby determined
by the city council that such signs are needed as an emergency measure for the
protection of the residents of the city.
The chief of police, or any other person as described above, shall cause
caution signs for the protection of deaf residents of the city to be posted in
all areas where such signs are required for the safety of such residents
indicating a deaf person may be in the area. (Ord. 0-11-75, 6-2-1975)
9-2-2: STOP SIGNS:
Stop signs shall be placed at the following locations:
   The four (4) corners of 69th and Richmond.
   The four (4) corners of 71st and Seminole.
   The four (4) corners of 71st and Richmond.
   The four (4) corners of 69th and Wilmette.
   The four (4) corners of Seminole and Timber Lane.
   The two (2) corners of 71st and Bentley (two-way on Bentley).
   The four (4) corners of 69th and High.
   The southeast corner of Adams and Greenbriar Lane.
   The northwest corner of Grant and Sleepy Hollow Lane.
   The northeast corner of Bailey and Greenbriar Lane.
   The southwest corner of Cass and Sleepy Hollow Lane.
   The four (4) corners of 70th Street and Bentley.
   The northwest corner of Manning Road and Florence Avenue.
   The southwest corner of Cass Avenue and Iroquois Lane. (Ord. 0-11-75, 6-2-
1975)
   The four (4) corners of 71st Street and Exner Road.
   The southeast corner of 71st Street and Emerson Drive. (Ord. 0-11-75-A, 9-
20-1976)
   The four (4) corners of 79th Street and Nantucket Drive.
   The four (4) corners of Walnut Drive and Nantucket Drive.
   The northwest, southwest and northeast corners of 79th Street and Warwick
Avenue.
   The southwest and northeast corners of Chestnut Lane at Richmond Avenue.
   The four (4) corners of 65th Street and Ridge Road.
   The northwest and southeast corners of Richmond Avenue and 67th Street.
   The southeast corner of 67th Street and Wilmette Avenue.
   The northeast corner of Cass Avenue and 69th Street.
   The northeast corner of Cass Avenue and Hinsbrook Avenue.
   The northeast corner of Cass Avenue and 71st Street.
   The northwest corner of Beechnut Lane and 71st Street.
   The southwest and northeast corners of 67th Street and Clarendon Hills Road.
   The northeast corner of 69th Street and Richmond Avenue.
   The southwest and northeast corners of 69th Street and Clarendon Hills Road.
   The southwest corner of 70th Street and Clarendon Hills Road.
   The southwest corner of Maple Avenue and Clarendon Hills Road.
   The southwest corner of 71st Street and Clarendon Hills Road.
   The northeast corner of 68th Street and Clarendon Hills Road.
   The southeast corner of 67th Street and High Road.
   The east end of 69th Street (End).
   The northeast corner of Roger Road and Clarendon Hills Road.
   The northeast corner of Janet Avenue and Clarendon Hills Road.
   The northeast corner of Elm Street and Clarendon Hills Road.
   The northeast corner of Cass Avenue and Timber Lane.
   The southeast corner of Beechnut Lane and 71st Street.
   The northeast and southwest corners of Seminole Drive and Cherokee Drive.
   The northwest corner of Farmingdale Drive and 79th Street.
   The southeast corner of Sawyer Road and 79th Street.
   The northwest corner of Park Avenue and 75th Street.
   The southeast and northwest corners of Sequoia Lane and Adams Street.
   The southeast corner of Plainfield Road and Adams Street.
   The southeast corner of Plainfield Road and Pine Parkway.
   The southeast corner of Plainfield Road and Bailey Road.
   The northwest corner of Plainfield Road and Redondo Drive.
   The southwest corner of Sawyer Road and Glen Lane.
   The northeast corner of Hinswood Drive and Frontage Road.
   The northwest corner of Carriage Greens Drive and Frontage Road. (Ord. 0-30-
78, 7-17-1978)
   The four (4) corners of Evans Place and Elm Street.
   The southwest, southeast and northeast corners of Evans Place and Janet
Avenue.
   The northeast, northwest and southwest corners of High Road and Janet
Avenue.
   The southwest, southeast and northeast corners of Eleanor Place and Elm
Street. (Ord. 0-43-78, 10-2-1978)
   The southeast, northeast and southwest corners of 72nd Street and Leonard
Drive.
   The northeast and southwest corners of Bentley Avenue and 72nd Street. (Ord.
0-49-79, 12-3-1979)
   The southwest and northwest corners of Tennessee Avenue and 73rd Street.
(Ord. 0-49-79, 12-3-1979; amd. Ord. 0-34-80, 10-6-1980)
   The southeast corner of Lakeview Drive and Plainfield Road.
   The southeast corner of Lakeview Drive and Bailey Road.
   The east and west drive - exits from the Idyllwild apartments - northwest
corners.
   The southeast corner of 75th Street and Cambridge Road.
   The northwest corner of Wildwood Court and Regency Grove Drive.
   The southwest corner of Cass Avenue and Regency Grove Drive.
   The northeast corner of Creekside Lane and Kearney Road.
   The northeast corners of both the north and south exits of Capton's Lane and
Frontage Road.
   The northwest corners of both the east and west exits of Chalet Drive and
Hinswood Drive.
   The northwest corner of Woodland Drive and Frontage Road. (Ord. 0-49-79, 12-
3-1979)
   The northwest and southeast corners of 73rd Street and Bayberry Lane. (Ord.
0-31-07, 8-6-2007)
   At the three (3) corners of Oakley Drive and Lakeview Drive. (Ord. 0-06-84,
4-16-1984)
   At the southeast corner of Walnut Street and Sussex Creek Drive. (Ord. 0-37-
84, 10-15-1984)
   At the southwest and northeast corners of 71st Street at Bentley Avenue.
(Ord. 0-16-85, 7-15-1985)
   A three-way stop sign at the northeast, southwest, and southeast corners of
Kearney Road and Creekside Lane. (Ord. 0-33-85, 11-4-1985)
   A three-way stop sign at the northeast, southwest, and southeast corners of
71st Street and Emerson Drive. (Ord. 0-01-86, 1-20-1986)
   A four-way stop at the intersection of 73rd Street and Exner Road. (Ord. 0-
08-86, 3-3-1986)
   A three-way stop at the southeast corner of Sawmill Creek Drive and at the
northeast and southwest corners of Lakeview Drive intersection. (Ord. 0-27-86,
9-2-1986)
   The northeast corner of Walnut Drive intersection at Warwick Avenue. (Ord.
0-19-10, 7-19-2010)
   A four-way stop at the intersection of 69th Street and Crest Road. (Ord. 0-
01-87, 2-2-1987)
   At the Frontage Road exit from the Shell gas station, located at Cass Avenue
and Frontage Road. (Ord. 0-27-87, 6-15-1987)
   A three-way stop at the intersection of Marlborough Lane and Wakefield
Drive.
   A three-way stop at the intersection of Lyman Avenue and Green Valley Road.
(Ord. 0-28-87, 6-15-1987)
   At the southwest corner of Walnut Drive and Farmingdale Drive and at the
parking lot exit on the east side of Farmingdale Drive. (Ord. 0-34-87, 7-6-
1987)
   At the intersection of Maple Lane at Richmond Avenue at the northeast
corner. (Ord. 0-35-87, 8-3-1987)
   A three-way stop at the intersection of Lakeview Drive and Wildwood Lane.
(Ord. 0-45-87, 10-5-1987)
   At the northeast corner of Tall Pine Drive and Bavarian Lane.
   At the southeast corner of Tall Pine Drive and 67th Street. (Ord. 0-50-87,
11-2-1987)
   A three-way stop at the intersection of 72nd Street and Tennessee Avenue.
(Ord. 0-24-89, 7-17-1989)
   A three-way stop sign at the intersection of Winterberry Lane and Evergreen
Lane.
   A three-way stop sign at the intersection of Willowcreek Lane and Evergreen
Lane.
   A three-way stop sign at the intersection of Pine Cove Court and Pinehurst
Drive.
   A three-way stop sign at the intersection of Pinehurst Drive at Lake View
Drive.
   On Winterberry Lane at Bailey Road.
   On Pinehurst Drive at Bailey Road. (Ord. 0-39-89, 11-20-1989)
   The northeast corner of Summit Road and 73rd Street. (Ord. 0-31-07, 8-6-
2007)
   On Mayfair Lane at 79th Street.
   On Dorchester Lane at 79th Street. (Ord. 0-41-89, 12-18-1989)
   At the northwest corner of Evergreen Lane and North Frontage Road.
   At the southwest corner of Evergreen Lane and Bailey Road.
   At the southwest corner of Winterberry Lane and Bailey Road.
   At the southwest corner of Willow Creek Lane and Bailey Road. (Ord. 0-19-89,
6-5-1989)
   On the northwest corner of Fairview Avenue and Manning Road. (Ord. 0-07-90,
2-5-1990)
   The northwest corner of Lake Ridge Drive and Oldfield Road.
   The southwest corner of Andrus Road and Oldfield Road.
   The northwest corner of Robert Road and Oldfield Road.
   The southwest corner of Robert Road and Oldfield Road.
   The northeast corner of Norman Drive and Williams Street.
   The southwest corner of Stewart Drive and Bailey Road.
   The southwest corner of Berrymore Drive and Bailey Road.
   The southwest corner of Carlow Drive and Andrus Road.
   The northwest corner of High Point Circle and North Frontage Road. (Ord. 0-
15-90, 4-16-1990)
   On the northwest corner of Fairview Avenue and Manning Road. (Ord. 0-07-90,
2-5-1990)
   A one-way stop at the intersection of Fairview Avenue and Judd Street on the
southwest corner, stopping for traffic on Fairview Avenue. (Ord. 0-37-91, 6-17-
1991)
   The northwest and southeast corners of 67th Street and Bentley Avenue
stopping traffic on northbound and southbound Bentley Avenue for traffic on
67th Street.
   The northwest and southeast corners of Western Avenue and 67th Street
stopping traffic on northbound and southbound Western Avenue for traffic on
67th Street. (Ord. 0-32-94, 8-1-1994)
   The northwest corner of the intersection of Hinswood Drive and North
Frontage Road. (Ord. 0-16-95, 6-5-1995)
   The four (4) corners of Holly Avenue and Exner Road. (Ord. 0-40-97, 11-3-
1997)
   A three-way stop at the intersection of Beller Road and Ailsworth Drive.
(Ord. 0-08-98, 5-4-1998)
   For northbound Exner Road at the intersection of Exner Road and Darien Club
Drive. (Ord. 0-01-00, 3-6-2000)
   The southeast corner of 69th and Ironwood.
   The southeast corner of 67th and Leonard.
   The southeast corner of 67th and Tennessee.
   The southeast corner of 67th and Alabama.
   The southeast corner of 67th and Dale.
   The southeast corner of 67th and Crest.
   The northeast corner of High Road and Iris.
   The northeast and southwest corners of 68th Street and High Road.
   The southwest corner of Peony Place and High Road.
   The northeast and southwest corners of Holly Avenue and High Road.
   The northeast corner of Richmond Avenue and 72nd Street.
   The southeast corner of Trenton and 67th Street.
   The southeast corner of Charleston and 67th Street.
   The northeast and southwest corners of Maple and Bentley.
   A three-way stop sign at the intersection of Park and 73rd.
   The northwest corner of Wilcox and 71st.
   The southeast corner of Wirth and 71st.
   The southeast corner of Gold Grove and 71st.
   The southeast corner of Summit and 71st.
   The southeast corner of Walden and 71st.
   The northeast corner of Sequoia and Williams.
   The northeast and southwest corners of 77th and Williams.
   The northeast corner of Hawthorne and Williams.
   The northeast corner of Claremont and Exner.
   The northeast corner of Walden and Exner.
   The northwest corner of Bayberry and Exner.
   The southwest corner of Clemens and Exner. (Ord. 0-31-07, 8-6-2007)
   The southeast corner of Hudson at 71st Street.
   The northeast corners (2) of Westminster Court at Bailey Road.
   The northeast corner of Urban at Bailey Road.
   The northeast corner of Von Drash at Bailey Road.
   The northeast corner of Chapman Drive at Bailey Road.
   The northeast corner of Marco Court at Bailey Road. (Ord. 0-41-07, 11-19-
2007)
   Eastbound and westbound Brewer Road at intersection with Beller Road.
   Eastbound and westbound Drover Lane at intersection with Beller Road.
   Eastbound Gilbert Court at intersection with Beller Road.
   Northbound Woodvale Drive at intersection with Beller Road.
   Northbound Beller Court at intersection with Beller Road.
   Northbound High Crest Drive at intersection with Beller Road.
   Southbound Spring Green Drive at intersection with Beller Road.
   Northbound Harvest Lane at intersection with Beller Road.
   Northbound Meadow Lane at intersection with Beller Road.
   Southbound Chicory Court at intersection with Beller Road.
   Northbound Sandlewood Drive at intersection with Beller Road.
   Southbound Sandlewood Court at intersection with Beller Road. (Ord. 0-19-10,
7-19-2010)
   Eastbound and westbound Mannina Road at intersection with Fairview Avenue.
(Ord. 0-26-10, 10-18-2010)
   Eastbound and westbound 79th Street at intersection with Farmingdale Drive.
(Ord. 0-32-10, 12-20-2010)
   Southbound Hedgewood Drive at Woodmere Drive. (Ord. 0-02-15, 2-2-2015)
In addition to the foregoing, a stop sign may be warranted and the council may
cause its erection where one or more of the following conditions exists within
the city:
   (A)   An intersection where the application of the statutory right of way
rule is unduly hazardous.
   (B)   An intersection where a street enters a through highway or street.
   (C)   Any other intersection where a combination of high speed, restricted
view, and previous accident record indicate a need for traffic control through
a stop sign.
   (D)   An intersection where, in any twelve (12) month period, there have
been three (3) or more reported accidents of a type which could be
substantially avoided by the installation of a stop sign. Such accidents
include right and left turn collisions, as well as right angle collisions.
   (E)   An intersection where the total vehicular volume entering thereon from
all approaches averages at least one hundred (100) vehicles per hour for any
four (4) hours on an average day.
   (F)   An intersection where the combined vehicular and pedestrian volume
from the minor street or highway averages at least seventy five (75) units per
hour for any four (4) hours of an average day.
The police/safety committee of the city may recommend to the city council the
installation of one or more stop signs at specified locations in the city. Any
such recommendations shall be based on an engineering study completed by the
city safety director, or an outside consultant with the aid and review of the
chief of police. Any such study shall indicate the existing conditions and
wherein those conditions fall within one or more of the stop sign warrants set
forth in this section. (Ord. 0-02-81, 1-19-1981)
9-2-3: NO THROUGH TRAFFIC SIGNS:
No through traffic signs shall be placed at the following locations:
   The southeast corner of Bailey Road and Greenbriar Lane.
   The northwest corner of Cass Avenue and Sleepy Hollow Lane.
   The northwest corner of Cass Avenue and Iroquois Street.
   The entrance to Stevens Street at Plainfield Road.
   The entrance to Hawthorne Street at Williams Street.
   The north side of Willowcreek Lane west of Bailey Road facing westbound
traffic, on school days between the hours of eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. - nine
o’clock (9:00) A.M. and three o’clock (3:00) P.M and four o’clock (4:00) P.M.
(Ord. 0-20-70, 8-10-1970; amd. Ord. 0-29-87, 6-15-1987; Ord. O-03-25, 2-3-2025)
9-2-4: SPEED LIMIT SIGNS:
Speed limits within the city shall be as follows:
On all streets except those specifically otherwise provided  25 miles per hour
for by this section
On Bailey Road and Fairview Avenue                           35 miles per hour
Manning Road                                                 30 miles per hour
Clarendon Hills Road                                         30 miles per hour
Manning Road between 75th Street and Plainfield Road         25 miles per hour
Bailey Road                                                  25 miles per hour
Clarendon Hills Road between Plainfield Road and 75th Street 20 miles per hour
on school days when children are present
Elm Street between Clarendon Hills Road and Eleanor Place on 20 miles per hour
school days when children are present
 
(Ord. 0-20-70, 8-10-1970; amd. Ord. 0-20-70-A, 1974; Ord. 0-20-85, 8-5-1985;
Ord. 0-51-87, 11-2-1987; Ord. 0-41-89, 12-18-1989; Ord. 0-33-96, 11-4-1996)
Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be fined no less than
ten dollars ($10.00) and no more than one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 0-
20-70-A, 1974)
9-2-5: YIELD SIGNS:
Yield signs shall be placed at the following locations:
   The northwest and southeast corners of Stratford Place and 79th Street.
   The northwest corner of Comstock Lane and Walnut Drive.
   The southeast corner of Stratford Place and Walnut Drive.
   The northwest corner of Del Court and 79th Street.
   The southwest corner of Andermann Lane and Nantucket Drive.
   The northeast corner of Heard Lane and Nantucket Drive.
   The southwest corner of Comstock Lane and Nantucket Drive.
   The southeast corner of Hayenga Lane and Walnut Drive.
   The northwest corner of Baker Court and Andermann Lane.
   The southwest corner of Juniper Lane and Stratford Place.
   The northwest corner of Linden Avenue and 79th Street.
   The northwest corner of Gail Avenue and 79th Street.
   The northeast corner of Juniper Lane and Warwick Avenue.
   The southwest corner of Brookhaven Avenue and Warwick Avenue.
   The southwest corner of Walnut Drive and Farmingdale Drive.
   The southwest corner of Holly Avenue and McAdam Road.
   The northeast and southwest corners of Richmond Avenue and Chestnut Lane.
   The southeast corner of 69th Street and Sierra Drive.
   The southeast corner of Beechnut Lane and Hinsbrook Avenue.
   The northwest corner of Wilmette Avenue and Hinsbrook Avenue.
   The southwest and northeast corners of Ironwood Avenue and Seminole Drive.
   The northwest corner of Sierra Drive and 71st Street.
   The northeast corner of Maple Lane and Richmond Avenue.
   The northeast corner of 70th Street and Richmond Avenue.
   The southeast corner of 69th Street and Bentley Avenue.
   The northeast and southwest corners of Seminole Drive and Tamarack Drive.
   The southwest corner of Seminole Drive and Willow Lane.
   The northeast and southwest corners of Seminole Drive and Beechnut Lane.
   The southwest corner of Seminole Drive and Village Court.
   The southwest corner of Seminole Drive and Hickory Lane.
   The northeast corner of Seminole Drive and Bunker Road.
   The southwest corner of Timber Lane and Darien Lane.
   The southwest corner of Richmond Avenue and Tamarack Drive.
   The southwest corner of Richmond Avenue and Belair Drive.
   The southwest corner of Richmond Avenue and Timber Lane.
   The northwest corner of 79th Street and Warwick Avenue.
   The northeast corner of Farmingdale Drive and Chippewa Lane.
   The northeast corner of Farmingdale Drive and Honey Locust Lane.
   The northeast corner of Knottingham Lane and 77th Street.
   The southwest and northeast corners of Williams and 77th Street.
   The southwest corner of Adams Street and 77th Street.
   The northeast corner of Portsmouth Drive and Sawyer Road.
   The northeast and southwest corners of Bob-O-Link Lane and Hinswood Drive.
   The southeast corner of Capitol Drive and Janet Avenue.
   The southeast corner of Sunrise Avenue and Janet Avenue.
   The southeast corner of Brookbank Road and Janet Avenue.
   The northwest corner of Brookbank Road and Elm Street.
   The southeast corner of Eleanor Place and Janet Avenue.
   The southeast corner of Poplar Lane and Janet Avenue.
   The northwest corner of Capitol Drive and Elm Street.
   The northwest corner of Sunrise Avenue and Elm Street.
   The northwest corner of Eleanor Place and Elm Street.
   The northwest corner of Poplar Lane and Elm Street.
   The southwest corner of 72nd Street and Western Avenue.
   The southeast corner of the east extension of Bentley Avenue and 72nd
Street.
   The southeast corner of Tennessee Avenue and 72nd Street.
   The northeast corner of Charleston and Columbia.
   The southwest corner of Columbia and Richmond.
   The southwest corner of Albany and Richmond.
   The northeast corner of Sawmill Creek Drive and Lakeview Drive.
   The northeast corner of Dickens Circle and Lakeview Drive.
   The southeast corner of Havens Drive and Stewart Road.
   A two-way yield at the intersection of Janet Avenue on the east and Gail
Avenue on the west, yielding to traffic on Linden Avenue.
   A one-way yield at the intersection of Sawyer Road and Pine Tree Lane on the
northeast corner, yielding to traffic on Sawyer Road.
   A one-way yield at the intersection of Lake Ridge Drive and Royal Swan Lane
on the southwest corner, yielding to traffic on Lake Ridge Drive.
   A one-way yield sign at the intersection of Irish Court and Darien Club
Drive on the northwest corner, yielding to traffic on Darien Club Drive.
   A one-way yield sign at the intersection of Clover Court and Darien Club
Drive on the northwest corner, yielding to traffic on Darien Club Drive.
   A one-way yield sign at the intersection of Limerick Court and Darien Club
Drive on the northeast corner, yielding to traffic on Darien Club Drive.
   A one-way yield sign at the intersection of Sweetbrier Lane and Darien Club
Drive on the southwest corner, yielding to traffic on Darien Club Drive.
   A one-way yield sign at the intersection of Galway Court and Darien Club
Drive on the southeast corner, yielding to traffic on Darien Club Drive.
   Two (2) yield signs at the intersection of Hillside Lane and Meadow Lane so
that traffic on Hillside Lane yields to traffic on Meadow Lane.
   One yield sign at the intersection of Darien Club Drive and Exner Road so
traffic on Exner Road yields to traffic on Darien Club Drive.
   One yield sign at the intersection of Mystic Trace and Ripple Ridge Drive so
that traffic on Mystic Trace yields to traffic on Ripple Ridge Drive.
   Two (2) yield signs at the intersection of Holly Avenue and Exner Road so
that traffic on Exner Road yields to traffic on Holly Avenue.
   A yield sign northbound on Bunker Road at intersection with Timber Lane.
(Ord. 0-30-78, 7-17-1978; amd. Ord. 0-43-78, 10-2-1978; Ord. 0-49-79, 12-3-
1979; Ord. 0-11-80, 3-17-1980; Ord. 0-15-80, 5-5-1980; Ord. 0-06-84, 4-16-1984;
Ord. 0-20-86, 7-21-1986; Ord. 0-23-89, 7-17-1989; Ord. 0-38-91, 6-17-1991; Ord.
0-14-93, 4-5-1993; Ord. 0-32-94, 8-1-1994; Ord. 0-29-96, 9-16-1996; Ord. 0-04-
97, 2-3-1997; Ord. 0-41-97, 11-3-1997; Ord. 0-43-06, 11-20-2006; Ord. 0-31-07,
8-6-2007; Ord. 0-16-09, 6-15-2009; Ord. 0-19-10, 7-19-2010)
9-2-6: NO RIGHT TURN SIGNS:
No right turn signs shall be placed at the following locations:
   The northeast corner of Brookbank Road and Elm Street facing the westbound
traffic on Elm Street.
   The west side of Bailey Road north of Willowcreek Lane facing southbound
traffic, on school days between the hours of eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. - nine
o’clock (9:00) A.M. and three o’clock (3:00) P.M and four o’clock (4:00) P.M.
(Ord. 0-43-78, 10-2-1978; Ord. O-03-25, 2-3-2025)
9-2-7: LEFT TURN ONLY SIGNS:
Left turn only signs shall be placed at the following locations:
   Left turn only on school days at the northeast parking lot exit of the
Hinsdale South High School. (Ord. 0-43-78, 10-2-1978)
9-2-8: NO LEFT TURN SIGNS:
No left turn signs shall be placed at the following locations:
   Far north exit on Cass Avenue at the Jewel Food Store.
   Eastbound on Plainfield Road at Seminole Drive, weekdays between the hours
of four o’clock (4:00) P.M. and six o’clock (6:00) P.M.
   Southbound on Seminole Drive at Plainfield Road, weekdays between the hours
of four o’clock (4:00) P.M. and six o’clock (6:00) P.M.
   Eastbound on 69th Street at Wilmette Avenue between two thirty o’clock (2:
30) P.M. and three thirty o’clock (3:30) P.M. on school days.
   The east side of Bailey Road south of Willowcreek Lane facing northbound
traffic, on school days between the hours of eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. - nine
o’clock (9:00) A.M. and three o’clock (3:00) P.M and four o’clock (4:00) P.M.
(Ord. 0-44-84, 12-17-1984; amd. Ord. 0-33-07, 9-4-2007; Ord. 0-07-15, 4-6-2015;
Ord. O-03-25, 2-3-2025)
CHAPTER 3
PARKING RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Parking Regulated
9-3-2: Prohibited Parking
9-3-2-1: Prohibited Stopping, Standing Or Parking
9-3-3: Violations And Penalties
9-3-4: Suspension Of Traffic Regulations
9-3-1: PARKING REGULATED:
Parking shall be regulated as follows:
   (A)   Generally. It shall be unlawful to park any vehicles where parking is
prohibited, including, but not limited to, the following locations:
      1.   No person shall park on a sidewalk. A vehicle shall be considered
parked upon a sidewalk when the vehicle obstructs ½ of the sidewalk.
      2.   No person shall park within an intersection.
      3.   No person shall park on a crosswalk. A crosswalk is any portion of a
roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly indicated for pedestrian
crossing by lines or other markings on the surface. When a crosswalk is not
marked a crosswalk is that part of a roadway at an intersection included within
the connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway. In the absence of a sidewalk on one side of the
highway, a crosswalk is that part of the highway included within the extension
of the lateral line of the existing sidewalk to the side of the highway without
the sidewalk, with such extension forming a right angle to the centerline of
the highway.
      4.   No person shall park alongside or opposite any street excavation or
obstruction when stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
         5.   No person shall park at any place where official signs prohibit
parking.
      6.   No person shall park between roadways or a divided highway,
including crossovers.
      7.   No person shall park in front of a public or private driveway.
      8.   No person shall park within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
      9.   No person shall park within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk, or
within twenty feet (20') of an intersection.
      10.   No person shall park within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to
any flashing signal, stop sign, yield sign or traffic control signal located at
the side of a roadway.
      11.   No person shall park in a fire lane.
      12.   No person shall park on the parkway in areas within the city where
curbs are provided. Parkways are the area between the sidewalk edge nearest the
roadway and the roadway. Where curbs and sidewalks are provided a vehicle shall
not park on a driveway within the parkway, commonly referred to as the apron.
An area absent a sidewalk may park anywhere on the driveway but at least three
(3') feet between the edge of the roadway shoulder and the vehicle.
      13.   No person shall park in any place where official signs designate
parking for persons with disabilities, only, except those persons displaying a
disability permit issued in compliance with 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-
616(c).
   (B)   Trailers or Recreational Vehicles. It shall be unlawful to park a
trailer or recreational vehicle on the public streets or rights of way at any
time, except when actually engaged in loading and unloading of merchandise or
passengers, but in no event shall such loading or unloading exceed four (4)
hours.
   (C)   Times and Exceptions. It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle
and/or any other vehicle on the public streets or rights of way of the city
between the hours of two o’clock (2:00) A.M. and six o’clock (6:00) A.M. of any
day, with the following exceptions:
      1.   Physicians on emergency calls.
      2.   Cars may be parked on Portsmouth Drive (west side only) between
Sawyer Road and Frontage Road at any time, except during a snow emergency.
      3.   Any vehicles may be parked during such hours if permission of the
police department is first obtained to allow parking on a temporary basis.
However, permission granted under this exception does not allow a subject to
park in violation of Section G - Parking during Snow Emergencies.
   (D)   Vehicles More Than Twelve Thousand Pounds. It shall be unlawful to
park or store or allow to stand any commercial vehicle with more than a
registered weight of twelve thousand (12,000) pounds, on any residential
property within the city.
   (E)   Vehicles Less Than Twelve Thousand Pounds. It shall be unlawful to
park or store or allow to stand more than one commercial vehicle with less than
a registered weight of twelve thousand (12,000) pounds on any residential
parcel or property within the City.
   (F)   Commercial Motor Vehicle on Residential Streets; Rights-Of-Way.
      1.   It shall be unlawful to park or store or allow to stand any Class 4
or higher commercial vehicle on any residential street or right-of-way within
the City except when actually engaged in loading or unloading of merchandise or
passengers.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to park or store or allow to stand more than
one Class 3 or lower commercial vehicle on any residential street or right-of-
way within the City except when actually engaged in loading or unloading of
merchandise or passengers.
      A Commercial Vehicle for this Section (9-3) is described as any vehicle
operated for the transportation of persons or property in the furtherance of
any commercial or industrial enterprise whether for-hire or not-for-hire. It
does not include a commuter van or a vehicle used in a ridesharing arrangement.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7457706f7aaf2d7e388d2de0fb2caab75b34723e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2339.jpg]
   (G)   Parking During Snow Emergency. It shall be unlawful for any person to
place or permit to stand any vehicle for a period of more than five (5) minutes
for the loading or unloading of passengers or materials on any public street or
right-of-way within the City during a snow emergency.
      A “snow emergency” shall be declared to exist within the City when the
snowfall exceeds one inch (1") during a twenty-four (24) hour period. Such
emergency shall continue to exist until the snow plowing operation has been
completed and the snowfall has ceased. Snowplow operation shall be deemed
completed when the roadway has been plowed curb to curb or if no curbs, then
shoulder to shoulder.
      Whenever any law enforcement officer finds a vehicle parked, or standing
upon a public street or right-of-way in violation of this subsection, such
officer may cause such vehicle to be removed and impounded and held until such
time as the costs for removal and impounding shall be paid by the owner or
operator of the vehicle.
   (H)   Two-Way Roadways. Except for areas designated for angle parking, every
vehicle stopped or parked upon a two-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked
with the right hand wheels parallel to and within twelve inches (12") of the
right hand curb or as close as practicable to the right edge of the right hand
shoulder.
   (I)   Public Parking Areas. No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in
a public parking area if the vehicle does not display a current annual
registration sticker or current temporary permit pending registration.
      For the purpose of this subsection, “public parking area” shall be
defined as any area available to the general public for the parking of motor
vehicles, including, but not limited to, shopping centers, areas maintained by
taxing bodies, “public parking area” as defined in section
9-4-1 of this title, and any property for which the City has contracted for the
delivery of police services.
   (J)   Standing or Parked Idling Motor Vehicles: No standing or parked motor
vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating of eight thousand (8,000) pounds or
greater shall be allowed to idle on any public street, public place, or private
property for more than a total of five (5) minutes within a sixty-minute period
except under the following circumstances:
      1.   The motor vehicle is an official City of Darien vehicle that is
operating in compliance with the City of Darien Vehicle Idling Management
Policy;
      2.   The motor vehicle idles while forced to remain motionless because of
traffic, an official traffic control device or signal, or at the direction of a
law enforcement official;
      3.   The motor vehicle idles when operating defrosters, or heater solely
to prevent a safety or health emergency only in vehicles not equipped with
auxiliary heating systems. “The use of auxiliary heating systems is one method
for heating the truck cab and sleeper without having to run a truck’s engine.
By using an auxiliary heating system to heat the cab, a truck’s engine can be
shut off, so far less fuel is used and fewer diesel emissions emitted.”;
      4.   A police, fire, ambulance, public safety, other emergency or law
enforcement motor vehicle, or any motor vehicle used in an emergency capacity,
idles while in an emergency or training mode and not for the convenience of the
vehicle operator;
      5.   The motor vehicle is owned by an electric utility and is operated
for electricity generation or hydraulic pressure to power equipment necessary
in the restoration, repair, modification or installation of electric utility
service;
      6.   When the motor vehicle idles due to mechanical difficulties over
which the operator has no control;
      7.   A bus idles a maximum of fifteen (15) minutes in any sixty- minute
period to maintain passenger comfort while non-driver passengers are on board;
      8.   An armored motor vehicle idles when a person remains inside the
vehicle to guard the contents, or while the vehicle is being loaded or
unloaded;
      9.   When idling of the motor vehicle is required to operate auxiliary
equipment to accomplish the intended use of the vehicle (such as loading,
unloading, mixing, or processing cargo; controlling cargo temperature;
construction operations), provided that this exemption does not apply when the
vehicle is idling solely for cabin comfort or to operate nonessential equipment
such as air conditioning, heating, microwave ovens or televisions;
      10.   A motor vehicle idles as part of a government inspection to verify
that all equipment is in good working order, provided idling is required as
part of the inspection; or
      11.   The primary propulsion engine idles for maintenance, servicing,
repairing, or diagnostic purposes if idling is necessary for such activity.
   The owners of property in the City’s Office Research and Light Industry
(OR&I) Zoning District, General Industrial (I-1) Zoning District, and any of
the B Zoning
   Districts shall post “No Idling/per Darien City Code” signage in conspicuous
place(s) on such property. (Ord. 0-02-71, 2-8-1971; amd. Ord. 0-41-73-B, 7-15-
1974; Ord. 0-41-73-C, 9-3-1974; 1978 Code; Ord. 0-04-80, 1-21-1980; Ord. 0-46-
81, 12-21-1981; Ord. 0-11-83, 6-20-1983; Ord. 0-13-98, 7-6-1998; Ord. 0-18-99,
8-16-1999; Ord. 0-21-10, 9-7-2010; Ord. 0-09-19, 3-4-2019; Ord. O-01- 21, 2-1-
2021; Ord. O-31-25, 6-2-2025)
9-3-2: PROHIBITED PARKING:
The following are places where parking is prohibited within the City:
   Adams Street, east and west sides, from 75th Street extending north for
approximately one hundred feet (100').
   Bailey Road, both sides, between Evergreen Lane and North Frontage Road.
   Beechnut Lane, east side, between Ironwood and Hinsbrook.
   Brookbank Road, east side, between Janet Avenue and Elm Street, no high
school or event parking any time.
   Brookbank Road, west side, between Janet Avenue and Elm Street, no high
school parking.
   Capitol Drive, both sides, between Janet Avenue and Elm Street on school
days between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M.
   Carriage Greens Drive, east side, between the north and south lot lines of
the east clubhouse parking lot of the Carriage Greens Country Club, and from
the west side parking lot driveway, south on Carriage Greens Drive, to the
corner of Royal Oak Drive.
   Carriage Greens Drive, west side, from the south building line of the
clubhouse to the north building line of the clubhouse.
   Carroll Court between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and eight
o'clock (8:00) P.M.
   Cass Avenue and North Frontage Road, at, adjacent to, or within five hundred
feet (500') of the intersection.
   Clarendon Hills Road from 71st Street to 75th Street.
   Darien Club Drive eastbound and westbound from the driveway of 1325 Darien
Club Drive (Lot 11) to approximately fifty feet (50') east of the east P.L. of
1309 Darien Club Drive (Lot 7).
   Eastern Right of Way-Kearney Road at Creekside Lane-Immediately north of
Creekside Lane.
   Eastern Right of Way-Kearney Road-South of 9S385 Kearney Road at the City
Limits-Between First utility pole approximately 240 feet south to the Second
utility pole.
   Eleanor Place, between Janet Avenue and Elm Street, both sides of the
street, no high school or event parking any time.
   Eleanor Place, east side, from Elm Street to 74th Street.
   Elm Street, north side, between Clarendon Hills Road and Eleanor Place, no
high school or event parking any time.
   Elm Street, south side, between Clarendon Hills Road and Eleanor Place
between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M.
Monday through Friday.
   Evans Place, between Janet Avenue and Elm Street, on both sides of the
street, no high school or event parking any time.
   Fairview Avenue from just south of 75th Street to its intersection with
Manning Road.
   7510 Farmingdale Drive from the centerline of the main entrance at this
address for a distance of twenty feet (20') in either direction from said
centerline.
   Frontage Road, on both sides of said road, from the east property line of
Capton's Corner to a point approximately six hundred feet (600') along Frontage
Road to Hinswood Drive.
   Hinsbrook, south side, between Beechnut and Ironwood.
   Hinswood Drive, east side, south of the south lot line of the residences on
Bob-O-Link Lane to north of the north lot line of the Hinswood Condominiums.
   Ironwood, north side, between Beechnut and Hinsbrook.
   Janet Avenue, both sides, from Clarendon Hills Road east to Eleanor Place on
school days between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M.
   Lyman Avenue, both sides, between 75th Street and Manning Road.
   Manning Road between Lyman Avenue and a point approximately three hundred
feet (300') west of Barclay Road.
   Manning Road, south side, between a point approximately three hundred feet
(300') west of Barclay Road and Plainfield Road.
   Mystic Trace, west side.
   North Frontage Road, north and south sides, between the east curb line of
Portsmouth Drive and the west lot line of 8338 Woodland Drive.
   Park Avenue between 75th and 73rd Streets.
   Parkview Drive, east side, between Beller Road and the southern property
line of 8361 Parkview Drive.
   Poplar Lane, both sides, between Janet Avenue and Elm Street on school days
between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M.
   Portsmouth Drive, east side, between Sawyer Road and Frontage Road.
   Portsmouth Drive, west side, between the north lot line of 8230 Portsmouth
Drive and Frontage Road, except for persons residing within the 8200 and 8300
blocks of Portsmouth Drive. A resident of this block may obtain permission to
allow a guest to park in the restricted area on a temporary basis.
   Ripple Ridge on the side of the roadway designated for odd numbered
addresses.
   Ripple Ridge Cove, any portion of the roadway alongside or adjacent to the
center island.
   Shelly Court between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and eight
o'clock (8:00) P.M.
   Southeast Corner of Kearney Road and Creekside Lane-Existing light pole.
   Spring Court, any portion of the roadway alongside or adjacent to the center
island.
   Sunrise Avenue, both sides, between Janet Avenue and Elm Street on school
days between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M.
   Sweetwater Court, any portion of the roadway alongside or adjacent to the
center island.
   Sweetwater Court, east side.
   Tennessee Avenue, east and west sides, from 72nd Street south for
approximately one hundred feet (100').
   Thistlewood Court, north side, from the private driveway at 8545 Thistlewood
Court to a point one hundred feet (100') east of that driveway.
   Western Right of Way-8400 Kearney Road Approximately 360 feet from the
existing driveway south to Creekside Lane.
   Willowcreek Lane, north side, between Bailey Road and Evergreen Lane.
   Willowcreek Lane, south side, from Bailey Road west to the westernmost
driveway of Cass Junior High.
   Wilmette Avenue both sides between 69th Street and Hinsbrook Avenue, no
parking, standing or stopping between two thirty o'clock (2:30) P.M. and three
thirty o'clock (3:30) P.M. on school days.
   Woodmere Drive, any portion of the roadway, from the west lot line of 2761
Woodmere Drive to Lemont Road on the south side of the street, and from the
east lot line of 2750 Woodmere Drive to Lemont Road on the north side of the
street.
   69th Street both sides from Wilmette Avenue west three hundred feet (300')
and on the south side of 69th Street from Wilmette Avenue east three hundred
feet (300'), no parking, standing or stopping between two thirty o'clock (2:30)
P.M. and three thirty o'clock (3:30) P.M. on school days.
   69th Street east of Crest Road.
   71st Street, north side, from Clarendon Hills Road extending west for
approximately two hundred feet (200').
   71st Street, south side, from Clarendon Hills Road extending west for
approximately three hundred feet (300').
   72nd Street, north and south sides, between Bentley and the Darien Community
Park.
   73rd Street, north side, between Whittier and a point approximately forty
feet (40') east of Whittier.
   73rd Street, north side, from Emerson to Whittier between the hours of
twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M.
   73rd Street, south side, between Park Avenue and Hudson Street.
   73rd Street, south side, from Park Avenue to a point one hundred eighty feet
(180') west of Park Avenue between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and
eight o'clock (8:00) P.M.
   74th Street, north and south sides, between Eleanor Place and the western
property line of the commercial property located on the north side of 74th
Street just west of Route 83. (Ord., 1978; amd. 1978 Code; Ord. 0-27-78, 7-3-
1978; Ord. 0-40-78, 9-5-1978; Ord. 0-20-80, 6-16-1980; Ord. 0-32-81, 7-20-1981;
Ord. 0-04-82, 2-1-1982; Ord. 0-01-83, 2-7-1983; Ord. 0-11-83, 6-20-1983; Ord.
0-29-84, 8-6-1984; Ord. 0-30-85, 10-7-1985; Ord. 0-14-86, 6-16-1986; Ord. 0-07-
90, 2-5-1990; Ord. 0-48-91, 7-15-1991; Ord. 0-14-93, 4-5-1993; Ord. 0-35-93, 9-
7-1993; Ord. 0-43-94, 10-3-1994; Ord. 0-08-95, 3-20-1995; Ord. 0-27-95, 8-21-
1995; Ord. 0-13-98, 7-6-1998; Ord. 0-33-99, 12-6-1999; Ord. 0-36-99, 12-20-
1999; Ord. 0-15-01, 3-5-2001; Ord. 0-20-01, 4-16-2001; Ord. 0-28-01, 7-2-2001;
Ord. 0-14-02, 5-6-2002; Ord. 0-19-02, 6-3-2002; Ord. 0-38-02, 11-4-2002; Ord.
0-03-03, 1-20-2003; Ord. 0-26-04, 9-7-2004; Ord. 0-11-05, 6-6-2005; Ord. 0-13-
05, 6-20-2005; Ord. 0-17-05, 7-18-2005; Ord. 0-37-06, 9-18-2006; Ord. 0-42-07,
11-19-2007; Ord. 0-16-14, 5-19-2014; Ord. 0-07-15, 4-6-2015; Ord. 0-15-16, 5-2-
2016; Ord. O-20-22, 10-3-2022)
9-3-2-1: PROHIBITED STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING:
The following are places where stopping, standing or parking is prohibited
within the city:
The west side of Wilmette Avenue between the north end of the north driveway,
and the south end of the south driveway, of Mark DeLay School, on school days
between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M.
(Ord. 0-12-94, 4-4-1994)
9-3-3: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
A violation of this chapter, except subsections
9-3-1(A)11, (A)13, (D) and (I) of this chapter, shall be punishable by a fine
of not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than twenty five dollars
($25.00). A violation committed by the owner or operator of a class D or higher
vehicle on any property for which the city has contracted for the delivery of
police services shall be punishable by a fine of not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
Any person who shall violate subsection
9-3-1(A)13 of this chapter, shall be fined not less than three hundred fifty
dollars ($350.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each
offense, and each twenty four (24) hour period that there is a violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
Any person who shall violate subsection
9-3-1(A)11 of this chapter, shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00)
nor more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each offense, and each
twenty four (24) hour period that there is a violation shall constitute a
separate offense.
Any person who shall violate subsection
9-3-1(D) or (I) of this chapter, shall be fined not less than twenty five
dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense, and each twenty four (24) hour period that there is a violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
For a violation of this chapter, the person cited may be allowed to pay such
fine by mailing the fine or by paying it in person prior to the date shown for
payment of such fine.
Whenever any vehicle shall have been parked in violation of any of the
provisions of any ordinance prohibiting or restricting parking, the person in
whose name such vehicle is registered shall be prima facie responsible for such
violation and subject to the penalty therefor. (Ord. 0-21-10, 9-7-2010)
Any person who shall violate subsection
9-3-1(J) of this chapter shall be fined fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first
offense and one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for a second or subsequent
conviction within a twelve-month period. (Ord. 0-09-19, 3-4-2019)
9-3-4: SUSPENSION OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
Whenever, in the opinion of the Chief of Police, it shall be temporarily
necessary to suspend any of the parking regulations contained within this
chapter the Chief of Police may temporarily suspend such regulations or
temporarily impose different regulations. As promptly as possible after making
a decision to suspend or modify the regulations, the Chief of Police shall
notify the Mayor and City Administrator in writing of his decision. The
temporary suspension or modification in the regulations shall not last for a
period in excess of ninety (90) days unless the Chief should extend such
suspension and notify, in writing, the Mayor and City Administrator of his
determination to keep the suspension or modification of regulations in effect.
The Chief of Police may grant additional extensions, each up to the maximum
period, but the Chief of Police shall, in each case, provide the notice as
herein provided. The Chief may order such a suspension or modification in light
of temporary changes in conditions affecting the location where the parking is
allowed, prohibited or regulated. Such changed conditions shall include, but
shall not be limited to, climatic conditions, construction, or repair
operations on public or private property and parades or other public
assemblies. (Ord. 0-01-80, 1-7-1980)
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC PARKING AREAS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Definition
9-4-2: Owner's Responsibilities
9-4-3: Prohibitions In Parking Areas
9-4-4: Drive-In Restaurant Regulations (Rep. by Ord. 0-10-06, 3-20-2006)
9-4-5: Sign Required, Content
9-4-6: Interpretation
9-4-7: Penalty
9-4-1: DEFINITION:
A "public parking area" is defined herein as the area made available by a
commercial or industrial facility within the city for use of its customers,
employees, invitees and any other member of the public, and the means of
ingress thereto and egress therefrom. (Ord. 8-18-75, 8-4-1975)
9-4-2: OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITIES:
The owner, lessee or operator of any public parking area will maintain quiet
and good order upon the premises, will not permit disorderly or immoral conduct
or loitering thereon, and will not cause or permit any noise, nuisance or
hazardous condition in the public parking area. (Ord. 0-49-91, 7-15-1991)
9-4-3: PROHIBITIONS IN PARKING AREAS:
   (A)   No person in a public parking area shall needlessly race the motor of
any motor vehicle, needlessly bring a motor vehicle to a sudden start or stop,
or cause to be made any other loud or unseemly noise, nuisance or disturbance.
(Ord. 0-49-91, 7-15-1991)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring onto a public parking
area any alcoholic beverage and consume or attempt to consume such alcoholic
beverage thereon. (Ord. 8-18-75, 8-4-1975)
   (C)   No person shall enter the premises of any public parking area in a
motor vehicle of any description and park said vehicle and leave the premises
without getting the consent of the owner or operator of said public parking
area. (Ord. 0-49-91, 7-15-1991)
   (D)   No person shall enter any public parking area in a motor vehicle of
any kind and use said public parking area for cruising, racing, as a shortcut
to another street, or to annoy or endanger any person or persons or other
vehicle or vehicles lawfully in such public parking area. (Ord. 8-18-75, 8-4-
1975)
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to congregate or linger or loiter at any location
on the premises of any public parking area other than in a building in the
public parking area, or in a legally parked motor vehicle, or where outdoor
tables or seating facilities are provided, in such a manner as to create a
nuisance or hazardous condition. It shall further be unlawful for any person or
persons to obstruct pedestrian or vehicular traffic on the premises of any
public parking area. (Ord. 0-49-91, 7-15-1991)
   (F)   No person, while in a public parking area, shall use loud and
vociferous, or obscene, vulgar or indecent language, or swear or curse, or yell
or shriek, or make lewd gestures, in a manner which will disturb the person or
persons present at such place. (Ord. 8-18-75, 8-4-1975)
9-4-4: DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT REGULATIONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 0-10-06, 3-20-2006)
9-4-5: SIGNS REQUIRED, CONTENT:
It shall be the duty of every person having control or supervision of a public
parking area to post on the premises thereof in a conspicuous location one or
more signs bearing the following legend:
   CRUISING IN OR CONGREGATING AND LOITERING OUTSIDE OF A MOTOR VEHICLE IS
UNLAWFUL. UNOCCUPIED VEHICLES MAY BE LEFT ON THE PARKING PREMISES ONLY WITH THE
CONSENT OF THE OWNER OR OPERATOR OF THE PARKING AREA.
(Ord. 8-18-75, 8-4-1975)
9-4-6: INTERPRETATION:
It is hereby declared that the intention and purpose of this chapter is to
provide for the maintenance of quiet and good order within public parking areas
and the neighborhood surrounding public parking areas, and to ensure that
persons at or near public parking areas are protected from harm and from
unreasonable disturbances.
It is further declared that the intention and purpose of this chapter is not to
repeal any other provisions or regulations now in effect applicable to such
public parking areas, and that the purpose of this chapter is to make the
provisions hereof cumulative with all other such applicable provisions and
regulations; provided, however, that if there is any conflict in language
between this chapter and any other provisions and regulations applicable to
such public parking areas, the language of this chapter shall prevail. (Ord. 0-
49-91, 7-15-1991)
9-4-7: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the subsections of section
9-4-3, except subsection
9-4-3(C), of this chapter, shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
Any person who violates subsection
9-4-3(C) of this chapter shall be fined not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), and such a parked vehicle may be
impounded until lawfully claimed or disposed of in accordance with the
provisions of the statutes of the state relating thereto 1 . (Ord. 0-49-91, 7-
15-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/4-201.
CHAPTER 5
VEHICLE CODE
SECTION:
9-5-1: Definitions
9-5-2: Adoption Of Vehicle Code
9-5-3: Administrative Order
9-5-4: Fines Regarding Vehicle Code Violations
9-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
CITATION: Includes all nontraffic complaints, arrest tickets, notices to
appear, or uniform traffic complaints issued pursuant to this chapter.
ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE: 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-100 et seq., as
hereinafter amended. (Ord. 0-57-90, 11-5-1990)
9-5-2: ADOPTION OF VEHICLE CODE:
In lieu of using any section, or in addition to any section of this chapter,
the officer issuing a citation may issue it by using any of the sections of the
Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-100 et seq., as the
same may be amended from time to time, which are incorporated and adopted by
reference as a part of this chapter.
Three (3) copies of said code having been on file in the office of the clerk of
the city and available for public use, inspection and examination for at least
thirty (30) days prior to the adoption of this chapter as provided in section
1-3-2 of the Illinois municipal code. All citations issued hereunder shall be
in the name of this city and shall refer to the numbered sections in the
Illinois vehicle code. (Ord. 0-57-90, 11-5-1990)
9-5-3: ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER:
The chief of police of the city, or in the absence of the chief of police, the
acting chief of police, may issue an administrative order specifying which
provisions of the Illinois vehicle code are to be issued as state charges.
(Ord. 0-57-90, 11-5-1990)
9-5-4: FINES REGARDING VEHICLE CODE VIOLATIONS:
   (A)   Fines; General: A violation of any provision of the Illinois vehicle
code incorporated and adopted by reference in section
9-5-2 of this chapter, except those provisions where a minimum fine is
otherwise specified, shall be punishable by a fine of not less than one hundred
twenty dollars ($120.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for
each offense. This fine amount shall expressly be exclusive of court costs and
fees that may be imposed in addition to the fine amount.
   (B)   Fines; Twenty One To Thirty Miles Per Hour Over Limit: All violations
for driving a vehicle at a speed which is twenty one (21) to thirty (30) miles
per hour greater than the applicable statutory maximum speed limit shall be
punishable by a minimum fine amount of one hundred forty dollars ($140.00) for
each offense. This fine amount shall expressly be exclusive of court costs and
fees that may be imposed in addition to the fine amount.
   (C)   Fines; Thirty One Miles Per Hour Or Greater Over Limit: All violations
for driving a vehicle at a speed which is thirty one (31) miles per hour or
greater than the applicable statutory maximum speed limit shall be punishable
by a minimum fine amount of one hundred sixty dollars ($160.00) for each
offense. This fine amount shall expressly be exclusive of any court costs and
fees that may be imposed in addition to the fine amount. (Ord. 0-16-11, 7-18-
2011)
CHAPTER 6
TRAFFIC RESTRICTIONS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
SECTION:
9-6-1: Darien Towne Center Shopping Center
9-6-2: Chestnut Court Shopping Center
9-6-3: Woodlands Of Darien
9-6-1: DARIEN TOWNE CENTER SHOPPING CENTER:
The following regulations shall apply to the property of the Darien Towne
Center Shopping Center:
   (A)   Laws And Ordinances: Any and all existing laws or ordinances as added
and/or amended.
   (B)   Speed Limit: The maximum speed limit for any vehicle shall be twenty
(20) miles per hour.
   (C)   Designated Parking: All vehicles shall be parked within designated
areas marked by appropriate stripes. No part of any vehicle will extend beyond
said stripe(s).
   (D)   Bicycles, Skateboards, Roller Skates: No person shall operate or move
a bicycle, skateboard, roller skates or similar mode of transportation where
prohibited.
   (E)   Trucks And Trailers:
      1.   No person shall park motorized trucks such as semitrailer tractors
or pickup trucks overnight.
      2.   No person shall allow a nonmotorized trailer to remain in an area
commonly referred to as a loading dock for a period in excess of forty eight
(48) hours.
   (F)   Restricted Hours: No person shall operate a commercial truck upon said
property between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00)
A.M.
   (G)   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of subsection (C) or (D)
of this Section shall be fined not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00). Any person violating any of the provisions of
subsection (E) or (F) of this Section shall be fined not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 0-05-95,
2-6-1995)
9-6-2: CHESTNUT COURT SHOPPING CENTER:
The following regulations shall apply to the property of the Chestnut Court
Shopping Center:
   (A)   Existing Laws Or Ordinances: Any and all existing laws or ordinances
as added and/or amended.
   (B)   Maximum Speed: The maximum speed limit for any vehicle shall be twenty
(20) miles per hour.
   (C)   Parking Within Designated Areas: All vehicles shall be parked within
designated areas marked by appropriate stripes. No part of any vehicle will
extend beyond said stripe(s).
   (D)   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of subsection (C) of this
Section shall be fined not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 0-10-95, 3-20-1995)
9-6-3: WOODLANDS OF DARIEN:
The following regulations shall apply to the property of the Woodlands of
Darien:
   (A)   Laws And Ordinances: Any and all existing laws or ordinances as added
and/or amended.
   (B)   Designated Parking: All vehicles shall be parked within designated
parking areas, in a garage, or on a driveway apron.
   (C)   Truck And Trailer Parking: No person shall park any vehicle registered
under the various registration types commonly used on trucks and trailers, upon
the subject property between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M.
   (D)   Truck Traffic: No truck traffic is permitted upon the subject property
between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
   (E)   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section
shall be fined not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 0-44-96, 12-16-1996)
CHAPTER 7
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING SYSTEM
SECTION:
9-7-1: Administrative Hearing System Established
9-7-2: Administrative Hearing Procedures Not Exclusive
9-7-3: Administrative Composition
9-7-4: Hearing Officer
9-7-5: Violation Notice
9-7-6: Service Of Notice
9-7-7: Hearings
9-7-8: Judicial Review
9-7-9: Debt To The City
9-7-10: Enforcement Of Judgments
9-7-1: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING SYSTEM ESTABLISHED:
   (A)   There is hereby established and created within the city an
administrative hearing system to enforce and adjudicate violations of the
following chapters of this code, as the same has been, and may, from time to
time hereafter be amended:
      1.   Title 3:
         (a)   Chapter 2, "Peddlers and Solicitors".
         (b)   Chapter 3, section
3-3-19, "Sales to Minors".
         (c)   Chapter 3, section
3-3-25, "Prohibition of Video Gaming".
         (d)   Chapter 4, section
3-4-1, "Home Rule Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax".
         (e)   Chapter 6, "Garage Sales".
         (f)   Chapter 8, "Massage Businesses and Services".
      2.   Title 4:
         (a)   Chapter 1, "Darien Building Code".
         (b)   Chapter 3, "Sign Code".
      3.   Title 5A, "Zoning Regulations".
      4.   Title 5B, "Subdivision Regulations".
      5.   Title 6B:
         (a)   Chapter 1, "Storm Water and Floodplain Management".
         (b)   Chapter 3, "Street and Right of Way Regulations".
         (c)   Chapter 5, "Construction of Utility Facilities in the Public
Rights Of Way".
      6.   Title 6C, "Water Division".
      7.   Title 7, "Health and Sanitation".
      8.   Title 8, "Police Regulations".
      9.   Title 9, "Traffic Regulations".
      10.   Such other city ordinances and code provisions as the mayor and
city council may from time to time designate.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to administrative
adjudication proceedings to the extent that they are not inconsistent with the
provisions of this code which set forth specific procedures for the
administrative adjudication of particular code provisions. (Ord. 0-11-11, 5-16-
2011; amd. Ord. O-09-21, 6-7-2021; amd. Ord. O-09-21, 6-7-2021)
9-7-2: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING PROCEDURES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The provisions of this chapter shall not preclude the city from using other
methods or proceedings to enforce and adjudicate the code or other ordinances
of the city, including, without limitation, the institution of an action in the
DuPage County circuit court or the United States district court for the
northern district of Illinois, or any administrative proceeding. (Ord. 0-11-11,
5-16-2011; amd. Ord. O-09-21, 6-7-2021)
9-7-3: ADMINISTRATIVE COMPOSITION:
The administrative hearing system shall provide for one or more hearing
officers, all with the power, authority and limitations set forth in this
chapter. (Ord. 0-11-11, 5-16-2011; amd. Ord. O-09-21, 6-7-2021)
9-7-4: HEARING OFFICER:
   (A)   Appointment: The city administrator shall appoint one or more
qualified hearing officers to perform the functions set forth in this section.
   (B)   Independent Contractor: A hearing officer shall be employed as an
independent contractor of the city and shall not be considered an employee of
the city. A hearing officer may be removed, with or without cause, by the city
administrator.
   (C)   Qualifications: To qualify as a hearing officer, an individual must:
      1.   Be an attorney licensed to practice law in the state of Illinois for
at least three (3) years;
      2.   Be in good standing with the Illinois Supreme Court attorney
registration and disciplinary commission;
      3.   Complete a formal training program approved by the city
administrator and the city attorney consisting of:
         (a)   Instruction on the rules of procedure of the administrative
hearings which he/she will conduct;
         (b)   Orientation to each subject area of this code that will be
adjudicated;
         (c)   Observation of administrative hearings; and
         (d)   Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on
evidence and issuing final orders.
   (D)   Compensation: Authorization for compensation for a hearing officer
shall be made by the mayor and city council through the city's annual budget
process. Compensation shall be determined by the city administrator within
approved budget limitations.
   (E)   Authority and Powers: Hearing officers shall have all powers necessary
to conduct fair and impartial hearings including, but limited to, the power to:
      1.   Hold conferences for the settlement or simplification of the issues;
      2.   Administer oaths and affirmations;
      3.   Hear testimony and accept evidence that is relevant to the
allegation of the violation;
      4.   Issue subpoenas directing witnesses to appear and give relevant
testimony at the hearing, upon the request of the parties or their
representatives;
      5.   Preserve and authenticate the record of the hearing and all exhibits
and evidence introduced at the hearing;
      6.   Issue a determination, based on the evidence presented at the
hearing, of whether the violation occurred or exists. The determination shall
be in writing and shall include a written finding of fact, decision, and order
including the fine, penalty, or action with which the defendant must comply;
and
      7.   Impose penalties consistent with the applicable code provisions and
assess costs upon finding a party liable for the charged violation as set forth
in this chapter. (Ord. 0-11-11, 5-16-2011; amd. Ord. O-09-21, 6-7-2021)
9-7-5: VIOLATION NOTICE:
   (A)   A notice of violation ("violation notice") shall be issued by the
persons authorized under this chapter. The violation shall be verified and
shall contain, but shall not be limited to, the following information:
      1.   The name of the party violating the code or city ordinance;
      2.   The date and time the violation was observed;
      3.   The particular ordinance or code violation violated;
      4.   The name of any witness to the violation;
      5.   The signature and identification number, if applicable, of the
person issuing the notice; and
      6.   The date and location of the administrative hearing on the violation
(s), the legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is to be
held, and the penalties for failure to appear at the hearing.
   (B)   The correctness of facts contained in any violation notice shall be
verified by the person issuing said notice by:
      1.   Signing his/her name to the notice at the time of issuance; or
      2.   In the case of a notice produced by a computer device, by signing a
single certificate, to be kept by the records department of the Darien police
department, attesting to the correctness of all notices produced by the device
while under his/her control.
   (C)   All police officers, as well as other specifically authorized
individuals of any department of the city, shall have the authority to issue
violation notices.
   (D)   Any individual authorized to issue violation notices who detects a
violation, is authorized to issue a violation notice thereof and shall serve
the violation notice in the manner set forth in section
9-7-6 of this chapter or as otherwise set forth in this code.
   (E)   Any violation notice issued, signed and served in accordance herewith,
or a copy of the notice, shall be prima facie evidence of the correctness of
the facts shown on the notice.
   (F)   The records department of the Darien police department shall retain
the original or a facsimile of the violation notice and keep it as a record in
the ordinary course of business.
   (G)   The violation notice or a copy thereof shall be admissible in any
subsequent administrative or judicial proceeding to the extent permitted by
law. (Ord. 0-11-11, 5-16-2011; amd. Ord. O-09-21, 6-7-2021)
9-7-6: SERVICE OF NOTICE:
   (A)   Service of any violation notice shall be made as follows:
      1.   If present, handing the notice to the subject of the action (e.g.
registered vehicle owner, operator or lessee of the vehicle, home / business
owner).
      2.   If the subject of the action is not present and the violation is a
parking violation, the notice maybe left with the vehicle.
      3.   If the subject of the action is not present and the violation is not
a parking violation, the notice maybe posted at the front entrance. If posted
at the front entrance the person issuing the ordinance violation shall take a
picture of the posting.
      4.   Mailing the notice by certified mail to the subject of the action
registered owner, operator or lessee of the vehicle.
   (B)   If service of notice is provided by mail for any violation notice or
for any hearing notice, said service shall be deemed sent and shall be complete
on the date the notice is deposited, postage prepaid, in the United States
mail. The counting of any time period as set forth in this code shall begin to
run on the date the notice is deposited, postage prepaid, in the United States
mail. (Ord. 0-11-11, 5-16-2011; amd. Ord. O-09-21, 6-7-2021)
9-7-7: HEARINGS:
All hearings conducted under the administrative hearing system shall be
conducted by a hearing officer and shall be conducted in accordance with the
following rules and procedures:
   (A)   A record of the hearing shall be made by tape recording or other
appropriate means.
   (B)   The parties may be represented by counsel, present witnesses, and
cross examine opposing witnesses.
   (C)   The hearing officer may grant continuances only upon a finding of good
cause.
   (D)   All testimony shall be given under oath or affirmation.
   (E)   Parties may request the hearing officer to issue, and the hearing
officer shall have the authority to issue, subpoenas to direct the attendance
and testimony of relevant witnesses and produce relevant documents.
   (F)   The formal and technical rules of evidence shall not apply. Evidence,
including hearsay, may be admitted only if it is of a type commonly relied upon
by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of their affairs.
   (G)   In a hearing on the propriety of impoundment of a motor vehicle, any
sworn or affirmed report that: 1) is prepared in the performance of a law
enforcement officer's duties; and 2) sufficiently describes the circumstances
leading to the impoundment, shall be admissible evidence of the motor vehicle
owner's liability, unless rebutted by clear and convincing evidence.
   (H)   Each hearing shall culminate in a determination of liability or non-
liability by the hearing officer or a determination of liability based upon the
failure of the defendant to appear at the hearing.
   (I)   The hearing officer shall, upon a determination of liability, assess
fines and penalties in accordance with this code. In addition, the hearing
officer shall have the discretion to assess costs upon finding the defendant
liable for the charged violation. In no event shall the hearing officer have
the authority to: 1) impose a penalty of incarceration; or 2) impose a fine in
excess of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for a violation.
   (J)   The maximum monetary fine imposed under this code shall be exclusive
of costs of enforcement or costs incurred by the city to secure compliance with
the city code or ordinances, and shall not be applicable to cases to enforce
the collection of any tax imposed and collected by the city. (Ord. 0-11-11, 5-
16-2011; amd. Ord. O-09-21, 6-7-2021)
9-7-8: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
   (A)   For violations where a predetermined fine is established by ordinance
(e.g. Parking Violation), the subject of the action may appeal the violation to
the Hearing Officer.
   (B)   Any final decision by a hearing officer that a violation does or does
not exist shall constitute a final determination for purposes of judicial
review and shall be subject to review under the Illinois administrative review
law 1 . (Ord. 0-11-11, 5-16-2011; amd. Ord. O-09-21, 6-7-2021)
 
Notes
1 1 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
9-7-9: DEBT TO THE CITY:
Any fine, penalty or part of any fine or penalty assessed in accordance with
the provisions of this code and remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of, or
the failure to exhaust, administrative procedures under this chapter and the
conclusion of any judicial review procedures, shall be a debt due and owing the
city, and, as such may be collected in accordance with applicable law. (Ord. 0-
11-11, 5-16-2011; amd. Ord. O-09-21, 6-7-2021)
9-7-10: ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENTS:
   (A)   After expiration of the period in which judicial review under the
Illinois administrative review law may be sought for a final determination of a
code violation, unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
findings, decision and order of the hearing officer may be enforced in the same
manner as a judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   In any case in which a defendant has failed to comply with a judgment
imposing any fine or sanction as a result of a code violation, any expenses
incurred by the city to enforce the judgment, including, but not limited to,
attorney fees, and court costs, after they are fixed by a court of competent
jurisdiction or a hearing officer, shall be a debt due and owing the city and
may be collected in accordance with applicable law. Prior to any expenses being
fixed by a hearing officer pursuant to this subsection, the city shall provide
notice to the defendant that states that the defendant shall appear at a
hearing before the administrative hearing officer to determine whether the
defendant has failed to comply with the judgment. The notice shall set the date
for such hearing, which shall not be less than seven (7) days from the date
that notice is served. If notice is served by mail, the seven (7) day period
shall begin to run on the date that the notice was deposited in the mail.
   (C)   Upon being recorded in the manner required by the Illinois code of
civil procedure, 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-101 et seq., a lien shall
be imposed on the real estate or personal estate, or both, of the defendant in
the amount of any debt due and owing the city under this section. The lien may
be enforced in the same manner as a judgment lien pursuant to a judgment of a
court of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   A hearing officer may set aside any judgment entered by default and
set a new hearing date, upon a petition filed within twenty one (21) days after
the issuance of the order of default, if the hearing officer determines that
the petitioner's failure to appear at the hearing was for good cause or at any
time if the petitioner established that the city did not provide proper service
of process. If any judgment is set aside pursuant to this subsection, the
hearing officer shall have the authority to enter an order extinguishing any
lien which has been recorded for any debt due and owing the city as a result of
the vacated default judgment. (Ord. 0-11-11, 5-16-2011; amd. Ord. O-09-21, 6-7-
2021)
CHAPTER 8
SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
9-8-1: Definitions
9-8-2: Conduct Prohibited
9-8-3: Exceptions
9-8-4: Administrative Fees
9-8-5: Notice Of Impoundment
9-8-6: Administrative Hearing
9-8-7: Administrative Penalty
9-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
indicates a different meaning:
BUSINESS DAY: Any day in which the office of the city clerk of the city of
Darien is open to the public for a minimum of seven (7) hours.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any vehicle which is self-propelled, including, but not limited
to, automobiles, trucks, vans, motorcycles and motor scooters.
OWNER OF RECORD OR OWNER: The record titleholder(s) of a motor vehicle as
registered with the secretary of state of the state of Illinois, or if not
registered in Illinois, the particular state where the motor vehicle is
registered. (Ord. 0-17-12, 4-16-2012)
9-8-2: CONDUCT PROHIBITED:
A motor vehicle operated with the permission, express or implied, of the owner
of record, shall be declared a public nuisance and shall be subject to seizure
and impoundment under this chapter where such motor vehicle is used in
connection with any of the following violations. This chapter is in addition to
and shall not replace or otherwise abrogate any existing federal or state laws
or city codes or ordinances pertaining to the seizure, towing and/or
impoundment of motor vehicles.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle which is used by a person during the aiding or
abetting or commission of, or in the attempt to commit, a misdemeanor or felony
as those terms are defined in the Illinois criminal code, 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/2-7 and 2-8, as amended, and as provided in the Illinois vehicle
code, as amended, and adopted in section
9-5-2 of this title.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle that is used in the commission of, or in the attempt
to commit, the following offenses set forth in article 9 of the Illinois
criminal code, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/9 et seq., as amended: 1) first
degree murder (9-1); and 2) involuntary manslaughter and reckless homicide (9-
3).
   (C)   Any motor vehicle that is used in the commission of, or in the attempt
to commit, aggravated kidnapping in violation of section 10-2 of the Illinois
criminal code, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/10-2, as amended. (Ord. 0-17-
12, 4-16-2012)
   (D)   Any motor vehicle that is used in the commission of, or in the attempt
to commit, the following offenses set forth in article 11 of the Illinois
criminal code, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11 et seq., as amended: 1)
criminal sexual assault (11-1.20); 2) aggravated criminal sexual assault (11-
1.30); 3) predatory criminal sexual assault of a child (11-1.40); 4) indecent
solicitation of a child (11-6); 5) promoting juvenile prostitution (except for
keeping a place of juvenile prostitution) (11-14.4); 6) child pornography (11-
20.1); and 7) aggravated child pornography (11-20.1B). (Ord. 0-26-12, 6-18-
2012)
   (E)   Any motor vehicle that is used in the commission of, or attempt to
commit, aggravated battery in violation of subsections (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(4),
(b)(1), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4), (e)(5), (e)(6) or (e)(7) of section 12-
3.05 of the Illinois criminal code, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-3.05,
as amended. (Ord. 0-17-12, 4-16-2012)
   (F)   Any motor vehicle that is used in the commission of, or attempt to
commit, the following offenses set forth in article 12 of the Illinois criminal
code, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12 et seq., as amended: 1) stalking (12-
7.3); and 2) aggravated stalking (12-7.4).
   (G)   Any motor vehicle that is used in the commission of, or attempt to
commit, theft in violation of section 16-1 of the Illinois criminal code, 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/16-1, as amended, if the theft is of precious
metal or scrap metal. (Ord. 0-26-12, 6-18-2012)
   (H)   Any motor vehicle that is used in the commission of, or attempt to
commit armed robbery in violation of the Illinois criminal code, 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/18-2, as amended.
   (I)   Any motor vehicle that is used in the commission of, or attempt to
commit, the following offenses set forth in article 19 of the Illinois criminal
code, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/19 et seq., as amended: 1) burglary (19-
1); 2) possession of burglary tools (19-2); and 3) residential burglary (19-3).
   (J)   Any motor vehicle used in the commission of, or attempt to commit, the
following offenses as set forth in article 20 of the Illinois criminal code,
720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/20 et seq., as amended: 1) arson (20-1); and
2) possession of explosives or explosive or incendiary devices (20-2).
   (K)   Any motor vehicle that is used in the commission of, or attempt to
commit, the following offenses set forth in article 24 of the Illinois criminal
code, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24 et seq., as amended: 1) unlawful use
of weapons (24-1); 2) aggravated discharge of a firearm (24-1.2); 3) aggravated
discharge of a machine gun or firearm equipped with a device designed or used
for silencing the report of a firearm (24-1.2-5); 4) reckless discharge of a
firearm (24-1.5); and 5) unlawful possession of firearms and firearm ammunition
(24-3.1).
   (L)   Any motor vehicle that is used in the commission of, or attempt to
commit, gambling in violation of the Illinois criminal code, 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/28-1, as amended.
   (M)   Any motor vehicle that is used in the commission of, or attempt to
commit, possession of a deadly substance in violation of the Illinois criminal
code, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/29D-15.2, as amended.
   (N)   Any motor vehicle that is used in the commission of, or attempt to
commit, the following offenses set forth in the cigarette tax act, 35 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 130 et seq., as amended, if the motor vehicle contains more
than ten (10) cartons of cigarettes: 1) destruction or use of forfeited
property (130/21); 2) counterfeiting or forging stamps (130/22); 3) sale of
packages with counterfeit stamps or stamps previously affixed (130/23); 4) sale
or possession of contraband cigarettes (130/24); and 5) acting as distributor
without license (130/26).
   (O)   Any motor vehicle that is used in the commission of, or attempt to
commit, the following offenses set forth in the cigarette use tax act, 35
Illinois Compiled Statutes 135 et seq., as amended, if the motor vehicle
contains more than ten (10) cartons of cigarettes: 1) forging, altering, or
counterfeiting stamps (135/28); 2) sale of improper stamp (135/29); and 3) sale
or possession of unstamped packages of cigarettes, other than by a licensed
distributor or transporter (135/30).
   (P)   Any motor vehicle that is used in the commission of, or attempt to
commit, disposal of hazardous waste in violation of the environmental
protection act, 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/44, as amended.
   (Q)   Any motor vehicle that is operated by a person driving under the
influence of alcohol or other drug or drugs, intoxicating compound or compounds
or any combination thereof under section 11-501 of the Illinois vehicle code,
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-501, as amended, during a period in which
his/her driving privileges are revoked or suspended where the revocation or
suspension was driving under the influence of alcohol or other drug or drugs,
intoxicating compound or compounds or any combination thereof; section 11-501.1
of the Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-501.1, as
amended (statutory summary suspension or revocation of driver's license for
driving under the influence); section 11-401(b) of the Illinois vehicle code,
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-401(b), as amended (failing to stop when
involved in an accident resulting in personal injury or death); and reckless
homicide as defined in section 9-3 of the Illinois criminal code, 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/9-3, as amended.
   (R)   Any motor vehicle that is operated by a person driving under the
influence of alcohol or other drug or drugs, intoxicating compound or compounds
or any combination thereof and has been previously convicted of reckless
homicide or a similar provision of a law of another state relating to reckless
homicide in which the person was determined to have been under the influence of
alcohol, other drug or drugs, or intoxicating compound or compounds as an
element of the offense or the person has previously been convicted of
committing a violation of driving under the influence of alcohol or other drug
or drugs, intoxicating compound or compounds or any combination thereof and was
involved in a motor vehicle accident that resulted in death, great bodily harm
or permanent disability or disfigurement to another when the violation was a
proximate cause of the death or injuries.
   (S)   Any motor vehicle otherwise subject to seizure and impoundment
pursuant to 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/36-1, as amended.
   (T)   Any motor vehicle that is operated or used in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Illinois cannabis control
act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/1 et seq., as amended, and the Illinois
controlled substances act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 570/100 et seq., as
amended, including, but not limited to, the solicitation, possession, attempt
to solicit or possess, delivery, trafficking, purchase, attempt to purchase,
sale or attempt to sell such cannabis or controlled substances in violation of
said acts.
   (U)   Any motor vehicle which is operated by a person with an expired
driver's license or permit or a restricted driver's permit in violation of 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-101, as amended, of the Illinois vehicle code;
except said violation does not include instances where a driver's license was
validly issued to the vehicle operator but has expired for a period of one year
or less.
   (V)   Any motor vehicle which is operated by a person who was never issued a
driver's license, permit or restricted driving permit in violation of 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-101, as amended, of the Illinois vehicle code,
or operating a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a driver's
license, permit or restricted driving permit due to a person's age.
   (W)   Any motor vehicle which is operated by a person driving while his/her
driver's license, permit or privilege to operate a motor vehicle is suspended
or revoked in violation of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-303, as amended,
of the Illinois vehicle code; except that a motor vehicle shall not be
subjected to seizure or impoundment if the suspension is for an unpaid citation
(parking or moving) or due to failure to comply with emission testing.
   (X)   Any motor vehicle which is operated by a person which is not covered
by a liability insurance policy in violation of 7-601 of the Illinois vehicle
code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/7-601, as amended.
   (Y)   Any motor vehicle which is operated by a person when such vehicle is
used by the person in fleeing or attempting to elude a law enforcement officer
or in aggravated fleeing or attempting to elude a law enforcement officer in
violation of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-204 and 204.1, respectively,
as amended, of the Illinois vehicle code.
   (Z)   Any motor vehicle which is operated by a person who is under the
influence of alcohol, other drug or drugs, intoxicating compound or compounds,
or any combination thereof, in violation of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
11-501, as amended, of the Illinois vehicle code.
   (AA)   Any motor vehicle which is operated by a person driving against whom
a warrant has been issued by a circuit court in Illinois for failing to answer
charges that the driver violated section 6-101 (driving without license, permit
or restricted driving permit), section 6-303 (driving while driver's license,
permit or privilege to operate motor vehicle is revoked), or 11-501 (driving
while under the influence of alcohol, other drug or drugs, intoxicating
compound or compounds or any combination thereof) of the Illinois vehicle code,
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-101, 5/6-303 or 5/11-501, respectively, as
amended.
   (BB)   Any motor vehicle which is operated by a person who commits reckless
driving as defined in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-503, as amended, of
the Illinois vehicle code.
   (CC)   Any motor vehicle which is operated by a person who is engaging in
street racing as defined in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-506, as
amended, of the Illinois vehicle code.
   (DD)   Any motor vehicle which is operated by a person when such vehicle's
registration is canceled, suspended or revoked in violation of 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/3-702, as amended, of the Illinois vehicle code, unless the
registration of the motor vehicle has been suspended for noninsurance or the
registration of the motor vehicle has been suspended for failure to purchase a
vehicle tax sticker.
      1.   Any motor vehicle which is operated by a person when such vehicle's
registration is suspended for noninsurance is subject to seizure and
impoundment where a person has been convicted of a second or subsequent
violation of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-708, as amended, of the
Illinois vehicle code (operation of a motor vehicle when the registration is
suspended for noninsurance).
   (EE)   Any motor vehicle which is operated by a person when such vehicle is
being operated with a false, fraudulent, stolen or altered registration in
violation of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-703, as amended, of the
Illinois vehicle code.
   (FF)   Any motor vehicle which is operated by a person when such vehicle's
registration is suspended for noninsurance in violation of 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/3-708, as amended, of the Illinois vehicle code, as
provided in subsection (DD)1 of this section.
   (GG)   Any motor vehicle which is operated by a person who presents or
displays a false insurance card to a law enforcement officer, court, or officer
of the court in violation of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-710, as
amended, of the Illinois vehicle code. (Ord. 0-17-12, 4-16-2012)
9-8-3: EXCEPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   A vehicle used in any of the violations set forth in section
9-8-2 of this chapter that was stolen at the time and the owner provides
verifiable proof that the vehicle was stolen at the time the vehicle was
impounded; or
   (B)   Any person who is the lessor of the vehicle pursuant to a written
lease agreement; provided, that upon the request of the city received within
one hundred twenty (120) days after the violation occurred, the lessor provides
within sixty (60) days after receipt of such receipt, the name and address of
the lessee. The driver's license number of the lessee may be subsequently
individually requested by the city if needed for enforcement of this chapter.
The lessee shall be provided an opportunity for a hearing, as afforded the
registered owner, as provided in section
9-8-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 0-17-12, 4-16-2012)
9-8-4: ADMINISTRATIVE FEES:
The registered owner of record of a properly impounded vehicle, or the agent(s)
of said owner, shall be liable to the city for an administrative fee of five
hundred dollars ($500.00). Said administrative fee represents the
administrative and processing costs associated with the investigation, arrest
and detention of an offender, or the removal, impoundment, storage and release
of the vehicle. The administrative fee is in addition to any towing and storage
fees charged for the towing and storage of the impounded vehicle.
   (A)   All administrative fees and towing and storage charges shall be
imposed on the registered owner of the motor vehicle or the agents of that
owner.
   (B)   The fees shall be in addition to: 1) any other penalties that may be
assessed by a court of law for the underlying violations; and 2) any towing or
storage fees, or both, charged by the towing company.
   (C)   The fees shall be collected by and paid to the city.
   (D)   The towing or storage fees, or both, shall be collected by and paid to
the person, firm, or entity that tows and stores the impounded vehicle. The
towing and storage fees shall be those approved by the chief of police for all
towers authorized to tow for the city of Darien police department. (Ord. 0-17-
12, 4-16-2012)
9-8-5: NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT:
   (A)   Notice: Whenever a police officer determines that a motor vehicle is
subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this chapter, the police officer
shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a facility authorized by the
chief of police. Before or at the time the vehicle is towed, the police officer
shall notify or make a reasonable attempt to notify the owner, lessee or any
person identifying him/herself as the owner or lessee of the vehicle or any
person who is found to be in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation, and who is physically present at the scene of the alleged violation,
seizure and impoundment of the vehicle and the vehicle owner's or lessee's
right to an administrative hearing. If the owner or lessee of the vehicle is
not present at the scene, the city shall send the owner or lessee written
notice of the seizure and impoundment at the address listed on the owner's
vehicle registration within twenty four (24) hours of the impoundment,
excluding Saturdays, Sundays and city holidays. Said notice shall inform the
owner or lessee that he/she has the right to an administrative hearing.
   (B)   Impoundment Pending Hearing: The city shall provide notice to the
owner or lessee that the motor vehicle shall remain impounded pending the
completion of the administrative hearing unless the owner or lessee of the
vehicle or a lienholder posts with the city a cash bond equal to, or pays by
money order or certified check, with the city of Darien police department the
amount of the administrative fee of five hundred dollars ($500.00) and pays for
all towing and storage charges. (Ord. 0-17-12, 4-16-2012)
9-8-6: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING:
   (A)   Notice: Within ten (10) business days after a motor vehicle has been
seized and impounded pursuant to this chapter, the city shall notify the owner
of record, lessee, and any lienholder of record by personal service or by first
class mail, to the interested party's address as registered with the secretary
of state, of the date, time and location of the scheduled hearing that will be
conducted pursuant to this section. The name and address of the person to whom
a vehicle is registered as shown on the records of the state in which the
vehicle is registered shall be conclusive evidence of the name and address of
the owner of record of the vehicle, unless the owner of record has given the
city actual written notice of a different name and/or address. The notice shall
state the penalty and fees that may be imposed, and that a motor vehicle not
released by cash bond or other form of payment acceptable to the city may be
sold or disposed of by the city in accordance with applicable law.
   (B)   Hearing: The administrative hearing shall be scheduled no later than
forty five (45) days after the date of the mailing of the notice of hearing.
The hearing shall be conducted, and the case heard and decided, by a hearing
officer appointed by the city as provided in chapter 7, "Administrative Hearing
System", of this title. Formal or technical rules of evidence shall not apply.
The hearings shall be recorded and the hearing officer shall be empowered to
administer oaths and to secure by subpoena both the attendance and testimony of
witnesses and the production of relevant books and papers. Persons appearing at
the hearing may be represented by counsel at their expense. At the conclusion
of the hearing, the hearing officer shall issue a written decision either
sustaining or overruling the vehicle impoundment. If, after the hearing, the
hearing officer determines that the motor vehicle, operated with the
permission, express or implied of the owner, was used in connection with a
violation set forth in this chapter, the hearing officer shall enter an order
finding the owner of record civilly liable to the city for an administrative
penalty in an amount not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) and requiring
the vehicle to continue to be impounded until the owner pays the administrative
penalty to the city plus any applicable towing and storage fees. If the owner
fails to appear at the hearing, the hearing officer shall enter a default order
in favor of the city, requiring the payment to the city of an administrative
penalty in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00). A copy of the default
order shall be sent to the registered owner via certified mail, return receipt
requested. If a cash bond or other acceptable form of payment has been posted,
that amount shall be applied to the amount owed. If the hearing officer finds
that the vehicle was improperly seized and impounded pursuant to this chapter,
the hearing officer shall order the immediate return of the owner's vehicle
along with any previously paid cash bond and any additional fees. All final
decisions of the hearing officer shall be subject to review under the
provisions of the Illinois administrative review law 1 .
   (C)   Driving While Intoxicated; Standard Of Evidence: A sworn report of a
police officer prepared in conformity with section 11-501.1 of the Illinois
vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-501.1, as amended,
establishing that a person refused testing or has submitted to a test that
discloses a blood alcohol concentration of 0.08 or more, or any amount of a
drug, substance, or intoxicating compound in the person's breath, blood or
urine resulting from the unlawful use or consumption of cannabis listed in the
cannabis control act, controlled substance listed in the controlled substances
act, or an intoxicating compound listed in the use of intoxicating compounds
act, shall constitute prima facie evidence under this chapter sufficient to
establish a finding of the vehicle owner's liability under this chapter. The
presumption may be rebutted by clear and convincing evidence. (Ord. 0-17-12, 4-
16-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
9-8-7: ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTY:
   (A)   Liability For Administrative Penalty And Costs: If an administrative
penalty is imposed pursuant to this chapter, such penalty shall constitute a
debt due and owing the city. If a cash bond or other form of monetary payment
acceptable to the city has been posted pursuant to this chapter, such amount
shall be applied to the total penalty assessed at the hearing. Unless stayed by
a court of competent jurisdiction, any fine, penalty, or administrative fee
imposed under this chapter, which remains unpaid in whole or in part after the
expiration of the deadline for seeking judicial review under the administrative
review law, may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment entered by a court
of competent jurisdiction. Except as provided otherwise in this chapter, a
vehicle shall continue to be impounded until: 1) the administrative penalty is
paid to the city and any applicable towing and storage fees are paid to the
tower, in which case possession of the vehicle shall be given to the person who
is legally entitled to possess the vehicle; or 2) the vehicle is sold or
otherwise disposed of to satisfy a judgment to enforce a lien as provided by
law. If the administrative penalty and other applicable fees are not paid
within thirty five (35) days after the hearing officer issues a written
decision, the vehicle shall be deemed unclaimed and shall be disposed of in the
manner provided for the disposition of unclaimed vehicles under section 4-208
of the Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-208, as
amended; provided, however, where proceedings have been instituted under state
or federal drug asset forfeiture laws, the vehicle may not be disposed of by
the city except in a manner consistent with the disposition of vehicles that is
provided for in those proceedings.
   (B)   Vehicle Possession: Except as otherwise specifically provided by law,
no owner, lienholder, or other person shall be legally entitled to take
possession of a vehicle impounded under this chapter until the administrative
penalty and other applicable fees under this chapter have been paid in full.
However, whenever a person with a lien of record against an impounded vehicle
has commenced foreclosure proceedings, possession of the vehicle shall be given
to that person if he/she agrees in writing to refund the city the amount of the
net proceeds of any foreclosure sale, less any amounts required to pay all
lienholders of record, not to exceed the administrative penalty plus applicable
fees. (Ord. 0-17-12, 4-16-2012)
CHAPTER 9
ADMINISTRATIVE FEES
SECTION:
9-9-1: Administrative Fee Schedule
9-9-2: Deferred Payment
9-9-1: ADMINISTRATIVE FEE SCHEDULE:
The fees for the following activities and purposes shall be as follows:
Audio recording                                      $ 25.00
Booking fee: When posting bail or bond on any legal
process, civil or criminal, or any custodial arrest  50.00
including warrant
Copies of motor vehicle accident reconstruction      20.00
reports
Copies of motor vehicle accident reports             5.00
False alarms:                                         
1 - 2                                                Free
3 - 4                                                $ 25.00
5 - 9                                                50.00
10 or greater                                        100.00
Fingerprinting fees:                                  
Residents                                            $5.00 per card
Nonresidents                                         $5.00 per card
Photographs: Digital or 35 mm                        $20.00 per disk of photos
Records subpoena requests - to process               $ 25.00
Towing fee: Imposed on an arrestee anytime a vehicle 500.00
release form is required
Video recording                                      25.00
 
(Ord. 0-11-11, 5-16-2011)
9-9-2: DEFERRED PAYMENT:
The city may waive payment of any of the above fees at the time the materials
or services are delivered. Provided, however, if any such fee is waived, the
individual or business receiving such material or services shall be required to
pay such fee within thirty (30) days from date such fee was originally due and
owing. (Ord. 0-11-11, 5-16-2011)
CHAPTER 10
BICYCLES, LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLES AND PERSONAL MOBILITY DEVICES
SECTION:
9-10-1: Definition
9-10-2: Obedience To Traffic-Control Devices
9-10-3: Operation Of Bicycles, Low-Speed Electric Bicycles, And Personal
Mobility Devices
9-10-4: Location Restrictions
9-10-5: Equipment
9-10-6: Duty Of Parent Or Guardian
9-10-7: Application Of Chapter
 
9-10-8: Penalty
 
9-10-1: DEFINITION:
                                       Every device propelled by human power
BICYCLE:                               upon which any person may ride, having
                                       two (2) tandem wheels except scooters
                                       and similar devices.
                                       A bicycle equipped with fully operable
                                       pedals and an electric motor of less
LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE:            than 750 watts that meets the
                                       requirements of one of the following
                                       classes:
                                       A low-speed electric bicycle equipped
                                       with a motor that provides assistance
   Class 1 low-speed electric bicyclonly when the rider is pedaling and that
                                       ceases to provide assistance when the
                                       bicycle reaches a speed of 20 miles per
                                       hour.
                                       A low-speed electric bicycle equipped
                                       with a motor that may be used
   Class 2 low-speed electric bicyclexclusively to propel the bicycle and
                                       that is not capable of providing
                                       assistance when the bicycle reaches a
                                       speed of 20 miles per hour.
                                       A low-speed electric bicycle equipped
   Class 3 low-speed electric bicyclwith a motor that provides assistance
                                       only when the rider is
                                       pedaling and that ceases to provide
                                      assistance when the bicycle reaches a
                                       speed of 28 miles per hour.
                                       A low-speed electric bicycle is not a
                                      moped or a motor driven cycle. Illinois
                                       Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/1-140.10).
                                       An electric-powered or electric-assisted
                                       device designed to transport only one
                                       person with an electric propulsion
                                       system of less than 750 watts and that
                                       limits the maximum speed of the device
                                       to twenty (20) miles per hour or less,
                                       such as a motorized or motor-assisted
                                       scooter, motorized or motor-assisted
                                       skateboard, or any other similar
                                       devices. Illinois Vehicle Code 625 ILCS
PERSONAL (micromobility) MOBILITY      5/1-140.11 describes a low-speed
DEVICE:                                electric scooter as a device weighing
                                       less than 100 pounds, with 2 or 3
                                       wheels, handlebars and a floorboard that
                                       can be stood upon while riding, that is
                                       solely powered by an electric motor and
                                       human power and whose maximum speed,
                                       with or without human propulsion, is no
                                       more than 10 miles per hour. Low-speed
                                       electric scooter does not include a
                                       moped or motor-driven cycle. (Ord. O-34-
                                       25, 7-21-2025)
 
9-10-2: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES:
Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official traffic
signals, signs and other control devices applicable to vehicles unless
otherwise directed by a police officer.
Wherever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or “U”
turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the direction of
any such sign, except when such person dismounts from the bicycle to make any
such turn, in which event such person shall then obey the regulations
applicable to pedestrians. (Ord. O-34-25, 7-21-2025)
9-10-3: OPERATION OF BICYCLES, LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLES, AND PERSONAL
MOBILITY DEVICES:
   (A)   Riding on Bicycles, low-speed electric bicycles, and personal mobility
devices.
      1.   A person operating a bicycle or low-speed electric bicycle shall not
ride other than upon or astride the permanent and regular seat attached
thereto.
      2.   A person operating a bicycle or low-speed electric bicycle shall not
carry any other person or persons upon such bicycle or low-speed electric
bicycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular seat designed and
intended for such purpose.
      3.   No bicycle, low-speed electric bicycle, or personal mobility device
shall be used to carry more than one (1) person unless specifically designed
for more than one (1) person.
   (B)   Speed. No person shall operate a bicycle, low-speed electric bicycle,
or personal mobility device at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent
under the conditions then existing, or in any case in excess of 20 MPH.
   (C)   Riding on Right. Every person operating a bicycle or low-speed
electric bicycle upon a public street or roadway shall ride as near to the
right side thereof as practicable, exercising due care when passing a standing
vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (D)   Emerging from Alley or Driveway. The operator of a bicycle, low-speed
electric bicycle, or personal mobility device emerging from an alley, driveway
or building shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or sidewalk area extending
across any alleyway, yield the right of way to all pedestrians approaching on
said sidewalk area and upon entering the public street or roadway shall yield
the right of way to all vehicles approaching on said street or roadway.
   (E)   Duty to Yield. Whenever a person is riding a bicycle or personal
mobility device upon a sidewalk, such person shall yield the right of way to
any pedestrian, and shall give an appropriate signal clearly audible to such
pedestrian.
   (F)   Clinging to Vehicles. No person riding upon any bicycle, low-speed
electric bicycle, or personal mobility device shall attach said bicycle, low-
speed electric bicycle, or personal mobility device, or himself, by clinging or
otherwise, to any other vehicle.
   (G)   Riding in a Group. Persons operating bicycles, low-speed electric
bicycles, or personal mobility devices shall ride in single file.
   (H)   Carrying Articles. The use of handheld cell phones, or similar
devices, while operating a low speed electric bike and/or personal mobility
device is prohibited. The operator of a low speed electric bike and/or personal
mobility device with handlebars shall keep both hands on the handlebars at all
times.
   (I)   Parking. No person shall park a bicycle, low-speed electric bicycle,
or personal mobility device upon a public street or roadway, nor upon a
sidewalk except as follows:
      1.   On a sidewalk in a rack designed and installed for that purpose.
      2.   On a sidewalk adjacent to a building with the bicycle, low-speed
electric bicycle, or personal mobility device resting on its own standard,
provided no part of the bicycle, low-speed electric bicycle, or personal
mobility device shall be more than two and one-half feet (2 1/2') from the
adjacent building.
   (J)   Other Vehicles Prohibited. Electric bicycles other than low speed
electric bicycles, or devices that do not meet the definition of personal
mobility devices as defined in Section 9-10-1 due to being equipped with a
motor of 750 watts or more, or capable of a maximum speed in excess of twenty
(20) miles per hour, shall not be permitted to be operated on any public right-
of-way or on any other public property within the City to include sidewalks and
trails.
   (K)   Age Restrictions. A person may not operate a Class 3 low-speed
electric bicycle or low speed scooter unless he or she is 16 years of age or
older. (Ord. O-34-25, 7-21-2025)
9-10-4: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   Bicycles: Bicycles, other than low-speed electric bicycles, may be
operated on any street, sidewalk, or trail in the City.
   (B)   Low-Speed Electric Bicycles: Low-speed electric bicycles shall be
operated only on the street. No person shall operate a low-speed electric
bicycle on any sidewalk, or trail within the City.
   (C)   Personal Mobility Devices: Personal Mobility Devices may be operated
on any sidewalk or trail in the City. No person shall operate a personal
mobility device on any public street, roadway, or alley within the City, except
where necessary to cross a street at a designated crosswalk. (Ord. O-34-25, 7-
21-2025)
9-10-5: EQUIPMENT:
   (A)   Lamps and Reflectors: Every bicycle, low-speed electric bicycle and
personal mobility device when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
five hundred feet (500') to the front and with a red reflector on the rear
which shall be visible from all distances from fifty feet (50') to three
hundred feet (300') to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of
headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a
distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear may be used in addition to the
red reflector.
   (B)   Brakes: Every bicycle, low-speed electric bicycle and personal
mobility device shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the operator
to make the braked wheel skid on a dry, level, clean pavement.
   (C)   Alterations to Low-Speed Electric Bicycle or Personal Mobility Device:
No person shall knowingly modify a low-speed electric bicycle or personal
mobility device to change the manufacturer’s speed capability. No person shall
operate an altered low-speed electric bicycle or personal mobility device that
allows the low-speed electric bicycle or personal mobility device to travel
faster than the manufacturer’s speed capability. (Ord. O-34-25, 7-21-2025)
9-10-6: DUTY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN:
It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian to permit any minor child of
which they are a parent or guardian to violate any provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. O-34-25, 7-21-2025)
9-10-7: APPLICATION OF CHAPTER:
The provisions of this Chapter shall apply whenever a bicycle, low-speed
electric bicycle, or personal mobility device is operated upon any public
street, roadway, alley, sidewalk or other public way within the City. (Ord. O-
34-25, 7-21-2025)
9-10-8: PENALTY:
Every person convicted or a violation of any provision of this Chapter shall be
punished by a fine of not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. O-34-25, 7-21-2025)
 
