DAVIS, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2023-8-1, passed 8-8-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
   
10.18   Availability of code
   
10.19   Tampering with code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the Village of Davis, Illinois shall be
designated as the Code of Davis, Illinois and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES or VILLAGE BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the village.
   COUNTY. Stephenson County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Stephenson County, Illinois.
(5 ILCS 70/1.07)
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.
(5 ILCS 70/1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of that officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(5 ILCS 70/1.08)
   HERETOFOR or HEREAFTER. HERETOFOR means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at any
time after that date.
(5 ILCS 70/1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of the state, or of any town or county of the state, and all
bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofor and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR. The President of the Village of Davis.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(5 ILCS 70/1.12)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(5 ILCS 70/1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the Village
of Davis. POLICE FORCE shall be construed to include those persons in the
employ of a village as members of the Department of Police, who are or shall
hereafter be appointed and sworn as POLICE OFFICERS.
(5 ILCS 70/1.20)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, county, state or federal governments, officers and agencies thereof,
or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized public
official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The village code hereby adopted, and
as hereinafter modified by amendment, revision and by the adoption of new
titles, chapters or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in § 1 of Article VII of
the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.28)
   VILLAGE. The Village of Davis, Illinois.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond required by law, it
shall be:
      (1)   The proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or
      (2)   An electronic signature as defined in the Uniform Electronic
Transactions Act, except as otherwise provided by law.
(5 ILCS 70/1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord.”
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(5 ILCS 70/1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(5 ILCS 70/1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday or
Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the President
and Board of Trustees may be fully carried out.
(5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, insofar as they are the same as those
of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the village shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) below:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context clearly
indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was not
intended.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of these
codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
bearing the latest passage date shall prevail.
   (B)   If the conflicting provisions bear the same passage date, the conflict
shall be construed so as to be consistent with the meaning or legal effect of
the questions of the subject matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections and divisions, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of ordinances by the
Board of Trustees.
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   (A)   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to
any office, officer or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
   (B)   These references shall also include the designee or agent of the
officer or office, unless the law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
word or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the
intention of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no
meaning can be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or
words was clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be
corrected and the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will
conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same
effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as originally
published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to, tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the village; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the Board
of Trustees or a certain village officer or employee to make additional
regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
regulations of a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the
codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are
saved.
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   (A)   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to the technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the village.
   (B)   Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section.
      Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20,
passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text of the
section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.    
      Example: (65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1)
   (C)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text
of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information.
      Example:
         § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            The village shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information
Act.
      Statutory reference:
         Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
§ 10.18 AVAILABILITY OF CODE.
   A copy of this code shall be kept on file in the office of the Village
Clerk, preserved in looseleaf form. It shall be the express duty of the Village
Clerk, or someone authorized by him or her, to insert in their designated
places all amendments or ordinances which indicate the intention of the
President and Board of Trustees to make the same a part of such code when the
same have been printed or reprinted in page form, and to extract from such code
all provisions which may from time to time be repealed by the President and
Board of Trustees. This copy of such code shall be available for all persons
desiring to examine the same and shall be considered the official Municipal
Code of Davis, Illinois.
(Prior Code, § 1-8)
§ 10.19 TAMPERING WITH CODE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation in the village to
change or amend by additions or deletions any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the village to be
misrepresented thereby.
(Prior Code, § 1-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Generally. Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the
village any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful, or a
misdemeanor, or a violation of this code, or whenever in this code or in any
ordinance of the village the doing of any act is required or the failure to do
any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided
therefor, the violation of any such provision of this code or any ordinance of
the village shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $75 nor more than
$750. Each day that a violation of this code or any ordinance of the village
continues, consecutive or not, shall constitute a separate offense. In addition
to such fines, a person who violates this code shall be liable to the village
for all reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys’ fees and court costs,
incurred by the village in enforcing a violation of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-10)
      (2)   Imprisonment until fine and costs paid. The person upon whom any
fine or penalty is imposed, upon order of the court before which the conviction
is had, may be imprisoned until the fine, penalty and costs are paid. No
imprisonment, however, shall exceed six months for any one offense.
(Prior Code, § 1-11)
      (3)   Officers, employees not liable for fines. No provision of this code
designating the duties of any officer or employee shall be so construed as to
make such officer or employee liable for any fine or penalty provided in the
code for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of the Board of
Trustees to impose such a fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in this section creating the duty.
(Prior Code, § 1-12)
      (4)   Notice of violation.
         (a)   Police officers, the Village President, the Village Clerk, the
Village Attorney and any other officer, employee or agent of the village
designated by the Village Board of Trustees may issue a citation, ticket,
complaint or notice for a violation of this code. Notwithstanding any other
provisions of this code, the Village President, the Village Clerk and any other
authorized officer, employee or agent of the village may, in lieu of filing a
complaint in court in the first instance, issue the violator a notice of
violation. The authority to issue a notice of violation in lieu of a complaint
in court shall not include any offense under the State Vehicle Code, or similar
offense, which is a traffic regulation governing moving vehicles. Service of
the notice of violation may be made by certified mail, return receipt
requested, whether service is to be within or without the state, and shall have
printed thereon statements which in substance:
            1.   Identifies the nature of the code violation;
            2.   Directs the immediate cessation of the unlawful conduct or
activity, or correction of the code violation alleged, as applicable;
            3.   Advises the violator that he or she may compromise the code
violation by paying to the village the sum of $75 as settlement of the code
violation and showing proof satisfactory to the village of the correction of
the code violation, if applicable, within five days from the date of delivery
of the notice; and
            4.   Informing the alleged violator that upon failure to so settle
and show proof satisfactory to the Village of the correction of the code
violation, if applicable, that a complaint may be filed in a court of competent
jurisdiction, charging them with the violation.
         (b)   If the violator fails or refuses to settle and compromise the
code violation and show proof satisfactory to the village of the correction of
the code violation, if applicable, within five days from the date of delivery
of the notice, the village may proceed with all enforcement rights and remedies
available to the village under the State Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/1-1 et
seq.). The village may retain attorneys and private collection agents for the
purpose of enforcing violations of this code and collecting any default in
payment of any fine or penalty or installment of that fine or penalty. All
reasonable fees or costs incurred by the village with respect to attorneys or
private collection agents retained by the village shall be charged to the
offender, and the offender shall be liable to the village for said fees and
costs.
   (B)   Whoever violates the provisions of §
10.19 shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $200 for each violation.
(Prior Code, § 1-9)
(Ord. 2023-7-1, passed 7-18-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Limitation on penalties, see 5 ILCS 5/1-2-1 and 5/1-2-1.1
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
31.   BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
32.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
33.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Application
   
30.02   Elections
   
30.03   Qualifications
   
30.04   Oath; bond
   
30.05   Further duties
   
30.06   Compensation
   
30.07   Removal from office
   
30.08   Surrender of effects of office
President
   
30.20   Election and term
   
30.21   Powers and duties
   
30.22   Compensation
   
30.23   Absence of President
   
30.24   Vacancy
Clerk
   
30.35   Appointment and term
   
30.36   Powers and duties
   
30.37   Compensation
Treasurer
   
30.50   Appointment and term
   
30.51   Powers and duties
   
30.52   Compensation
   
30.53   Commingling of funds
Other Officials
   
30.65   Appointment of other village officials
   
30.66   Duties and fees; bond
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply alike to all officers or
employees of the village, regardless of the time of the creation of the office
or position or of the time of the appointment of the officer or employee.
(Prior Code, § 2-1)
§ 30.02 ELECTIONS.
   Elections for municipal offices shall be held in accordance with and at the
times prescribed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 2-2)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-5-1 et seq.
§ 30.03 QUALIFICATIONS.
   A person is not eligible for an elective village office unless that person
is a qualified elector of the village and has resided in the village at least
one year next preceding the election. A person is not eligible for an elective
village office if that person is in arrears in the payment of a tax or other
indebtedness due to the village or has been convicted in any court located in
the United States of any infamous crime, bribery, perjury or other felony.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5) (Prior Code, § 2-3)
§ 30.04 OATH; BOND.
   (A)   Oath of office. Every officer of the village shall, before entering
upon his or her duties, take the oath prescribed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 2-4)
   (B)   Bond. Every officer and employee shall, if required by the Board of
Trustees, upon entering his or her office or position, give a bond in such
amount and with such sureties as may be determined by the Board, conditioned
upon the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office or position.
(Prior Code, § 2-5)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-14-3
§ 30.05 FURTHER DUTIES.
   Every officer shall perform such duties, in addition to those which may be
prescribed by law, and be subject to such other rules and regulations, as the
Board of Trustees may provide by ordinance.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-40) (Prior Code, § 2-6)
§ 30.06 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   All village officers, except as otherwise provided, shall receive the
salary or other compensation that is fixed by ordinance. Salaries or other
compensation shall not be increased or diminished, so as to take effect during
the term of any elected village officer. The salaries, fees or other
compensation of any appointed village officer, not including those appointed to
fill vacancies in elective offices, may be increased but not diminished so as
to take effect during the term for which such officer was appointed.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-5)
   (B)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may fix the salary of all village officers
and employees in the annual appropriation ordinance or budget ordinance. The
Board may fix the salary of all officers who are elected for a definite term in
an ordinance other than the appropriation or budget ordinance. Salaries which
are fixed in the annual appropriation ordinance shall neither be increased nor
diminished during the fiscal year for which the appropriation is made.
      (2)   Salaries which are fixed by ordinance for those officers who are
elected for a definite term shall neither be increased nor diminished during
that term and shall be fixed at least two months prior to a general village
election in which voting is held for such offices.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-10)
(Prior Code, § 2-7)
§ 30.07 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Except where otherwise provided by statute, the President may remove
any officer appointed by him or her under state law and this chapter, on any
written charge, whenever he or she is of the opinion that the interests of the
village demand removal, but he or she shall report the reasons for the removal
to the Board of Trustees at a meeting to be held not less than five nor more
than ten days after the removal.
   (B)   If the President fails or refuses to report to the Board of Trustees
the reasons for the removal, or if the Board of Trustees by a two-thirds vote
of all its members authorized by law to be elected disapproves of the removal,
the officer thereupon shall be restored to the office from which he or she was
removed.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-10) (Prior Code, § 2-8)
§ 30.08 SURRENDER OF EFFECTS OF OFFICE.
   Every officer of the village, upon the termination of his or her office, for
any cause whatsoever, shall deliver to his or her successor all books and
records which may be property of the village, and if no successor has been
appointed within one week after the termination of office, such property shall
be delivered either to the Village Clerk or to the Village Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 2-9)
PRESIDENT
§ 30.20 ELECTION AND TERM.
   The Village President shall be elected for a term of four years.
(Prior Code, § 2-30)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-5 and 5/3.1-15-10
§ 30.21 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The President of the village shall be President of the Board of
Trustees thereof and shall preside at all meetings of the Board. He or she
shall devote to the duties of his or her office whatever time the faithful
discharge thereof may require.
   (B)   The President shall perform all the duties which are prescribed by
law, including applicable state statutes and village ordinances, and shall take
care that the laws and ordinances are faithfully executed. The President from
time to time may, and annually shall, give the Board of Trustees information
relative to the affairs of the village, and may recommend for its consideration
such measures as he or she believes expedient.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-5)
   (C)   The President shall have the power to administer oaths and
affirmations upon all lawful occasions.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-20)
   (D)   The President at all times may examine and inspect the books, records
and papers of any agent, employee or officer of the village.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-20)
   (E)   The President may designate in writing another person to affix the
signature of the President to any written instrument or instruments required to
be signed by the President. The President shall send written notice of this
designation to the Board of Trustees, stating the name of the person whom he or
she has selected and what instrument or instruments the person will have
authority to sign. A written signature of the President executed by the person
so designated, with the signature of the person so designated underneath, shall
be attached to the notice. The notice, with the signatures attached, shall be
recorded in the journal of the Board and then filed with Village Clerk. When
the signature of the President is placed on a written instrument at the
direction of the President in the specified manner, the instrument or
instruments, in all respects, shall be as binding on the village as if signed
by the President in person.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-30)
(Prior Code, § 2-31)
§ 30.22 COMPENSATION.
   The President shall receive the compensation that is established by the
Board of Trustees in the annual appropriation or budget ordinance or by special
ordinance. An increase or decrease in the salary of the President shall not
take effect during the term for which that President is elected. His or her
salary shall be fixed at least two months before an election in which voting is
held for his or her office.
(Prior Code, § 2-32)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-10
§ 30.23 ABSENCE OF PRESIDENT.
   (a)   If the President is temporarily absent because of an incapacity to
perform official duties, but the incapacity does not create a vacancy in the
office, the Board of Trustees shall elect one of its members to act as
President pro tem. The President pro tem, during this absence or disability,
shall perform the duties and possess all the rights and powers of the President
but shall not be entitled to vote both as President pro tem and as Trustee.
   (B)   (1)   In the absence of the President, acting President and President
pro tem, the Board of Trustees may elect one of its members to act as temporary
Chairperson.
      (2)   The temporary Chairperson shall have only the powers of a presiding
officer and a right to vote only in the capacity as Trustee on any ordinance,
resolution or motion.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-35) (Prior Code, § 2-33)
§ 30.24 VACANCY.
   Whenever a vacancy in the office of President occurs during his or her term,
the vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of the term in the manner
provided in 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-55. During the period from the time that the
vacancy occurs until a President is elected, and has qualified, the vacancy may
be filled by the appointment of an acting President by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 2-34)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50 and 5/3.1-10-55
CLERK
§ 30.35 APPOINTMENT AND TERM.
   The Village Clerk shall be appointed by the Village President with the
concurrence of the Board of Trustees and serve for a four-year term and until
his or her successor is appointed and qualified as is provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 2-35)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-90
§ 30.36 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Clerk shall keep the corporate seal, to be provided by the Board
of Trustees, and all papers belonging to the village the custody and control of
which are not given to other officers.
   (B)   (1)   The Clerk shall attend all meetings of the Board of Trustees and
keep a full record of its proceedings in the journal.
      (2)   The record of those proceedings shall be made available for public
inspection within ten days after being approved or accepted by the Board of
Trustees as the official minutes of its proceedings.
      (3)   Copies of all papers duly filed in the Clerk’s office, and
transcripts from the journals and other records and files of the Clerk’s
office, certified by the Clerk under the corporate seal, shall be evidence in
all courts in the same manner as if the originals were produced.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-90)
   (B)   The Clerk shall perform such duties, in addition to those which may be
prescribed by law, and be subject to such other rules and regulations, as the
Board of Trustees may provide by ordinance.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-40)
   (C)   The Clerk shall have power to administer oaths and affirmations upon
all lawful occasions.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-20)
(Prior Code, § 2-36)
§ 30.37 COMPENSATION.
   The Clerk shall receive the compensation that is established by the Board of
Trustees in the annual appropriation or budget ordinance or by special
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 2-37)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-10
TREASURER
§ 30.50 APPOINTMENT AND TERM.
   There is hereby created the office of Village Treasurer, who shall be
appointed by the Village President with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees for a term of four years.
(Prior Code, § 2-38)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5
§ 30.51 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Treasurer shall perform such duties as may be prescribed for him
or her by statute or ordinance. He or she shall receive all money paid into the
village either directly from the person paying the money or from the hands of
such other officer or employee as may receive it.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall keep such records showing all money received by
him or her, the source from which it was received and the purpose for which it
was paid out; and he or she shall keep a record showing at all times the
financial status of the village.
   (C)   The Treasurer shall keep such books and accounts as may be required by
the Board of Trustees and shall keep them in the manner required by the Village
Board.
   (D)   (1)   The Treasurer shall make monthly reports to the Village Board
showing the state of the finances of the village and the amounts received and
spent during the month, which reports shall be filed, and he or she shall make
an annual report at the close of the fiscal year with the total amount of all
receipts and expenditures of the village and his or her transactions during the
preceding year.
      (2)   Each report shall be verified under oath and shall comply with the
requirements of law.
(Prior Code, § 2-39)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-10-1
§ 30.52 COMPENSATION.
   The Clerk shall receive the compensation that is established by the Board of
Trustees in the annual appropriation or budget ordinance or by special
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 2-40)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-10
§ 30.53 COMMINGLING OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the village and in his
or her custody separate and distinct from his or her own money and shall not
use, either directly or indirectly, the village’s money or warrants for the
personal use and benefit of the Treasurer or of any other person.
   (B)   Any violation of this provision shall subject him or her to immediate
removal from office by the Board of Trustees, who may declare the Treasurer’s
office vacant.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-55) (Prior Code, § 2-41)
OTHER OFFICIALS
§ 30.65 APPOINTMENT OF OTHER VILLAGE OFFICIALS.
   The President, with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees, shall
appoint such other officers and commissioners as are deemed necessary to carry
into effect the powers conferred upon municipalities.
(Prior Code, § 2-42)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5
§ 30.66 DUTIES AND FEES; BOND.
   The President and Board of Trustees may prescribe the duties of the officers
appointed pursuant to this section and the amount to be charged for services
rendered by those officers and may require them to execute whatever bonds are
prescribed by statute or ordinance.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-45-10) (Prior Code, § 2-43)
CHAPTER 31: BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Governing officers
   
31.02   Trustees
   
31.03   Powers and duties
   
31.04   Compensation
Rules of Procedure
   
31.15   Proceedings before Board of Trustees
   
31.16   Presiding officer
   
31.17   Meetings
   
31.18   Quorum
   
31.19   Order of business
Ordinances
   
31.30   Ordinances and rules to execute powers
   
31.31   Ordaining clause
   
31.32   Vote required; method of voting
   
31.33   Approval, disapproval by president
   
31.34   Reconsideration
   
31.35   Publication requirements; effective date
   
31.36   Recordation
   
31.37   Revision
   
31.38   Adoption of codes and public records by reference
Standing Committees
   
31.50   Authority to establish
   
31.51   Members
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   The village shall be governed by an elected officer who is called the
President, and by an elected legislative body which is called the Board of
Trustees and which shall consist of the President and six Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 2-10)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-45-5
§ 31.02 TRUSTEES.
   (A)   Except as provided in 65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-10, the electors of the village
shall elect six Trustees. The term of office of the Trustees shall be four
years and until their successors are elected and have qualified.
   (B)   Whenever a vacancy in the office of a Trustee occurs during his or her
term, the vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of the term at the next
general village election.
(Prior Code, § 2-11)
Statutory reference:
   Trustee terms, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-5
   Vacancies, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50
§ 31.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall have the powers and shall perform the same
duties as the city council in cities. It shall pass ordinances, resolutions and
motions in the same manner as a city council. The President of the Board of
Trustees may exercise the same veto power and powers in 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-30,
and with like effect, as the mayor of a city. The Trustees may pass motions,
resolutions and ordinances over the President’s veto in like manner as the
aldermen of city council.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-45-5)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall consist of the President and six Trustees.
It shall meet in accordance with the State Open Meeting Act, 5 ILCS 120-1 et
seq. It shall keep a journal of its own proceedings.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-5)
   (C)   (1)   The Board shall be the sole judge of the election to office of
the Trustees. It shall also be the sole judge whether, under 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-
5, Trustees are eligible for their offices.
      (2)   However, a court shall not be prohibited from hearing and
determining a proceeding in quo warranto.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-10)
   (D)   The Board may prescribe, by ordinance, the times and places of the
Board meetings, and the manner in which special Board meetings may be called.
The President or any three Trustees may call special meetings of the Board. In
addition to any notice requirement prescribed by the Board, public notice of
meetings must be given as prescribed in 5 ILCS 120/2.02 and 120/2.03 of the
Open Meeting Act.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-25)
   (E)   In the absence of the President, acting President or President pro
tem, the Board may elect a Trustee to act as a temporary Chairperson. He or she
shall have only the powers of a presiding officer and a right to vote in his or
her capacity as Trustee on any ordinance, resolution or motion.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-35(b))
(Prior Code, § 2-12)
§ 31.04 COMPENSATION.
   Each Trustee shall receive the compensation that is fixed by ordinance. Such
compensation shall be fixed at least two months prior to the election in which
voting is held for such Trustee’s office. Such ordinance shall specify whether
Trustees are to be compensated at an annual rate or for each meeting of the
Board of Trustees actually attended by each Trustee. Each Trustee may receive
reimbursement from the village for expenses incurred by the member in attending
committee meetings of the Board of Trustees or for other expenses incurred by
the Trustee in the course of performing official duties.
(Prior Code, § 2-13)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-5 and 5/3.1-50-10
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 31.15 PROCEEDINGS BEFORE BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   Rules of order. The current edition of Robert’s Rules of Order shall
govern the proceedings of the Board of Trustees where applicable and when not
in conflict with statutes or ordinances; provided, however, that the Board may
adopt rules of order revising, repealing, amending, supplementing, supplanting,
in whole or in part, Robert’s Rules of Order. Each new Board, upon inauguration
of the village officers newly elected at any consolidated election, shall have
the right by a majority vote of the Board of Trustees to repeal, amend or
replace any rules of order adopted by a previous Board.
   (B)   Addressing meetings. It shall be unlawful for any person to address or
attempt to address any regular or special meeting of the Board except upon the
consent of the President or with the consent of a majority of the members
present.
   (C)   Disturbing meetings. It shall be unlawful to disturb or interrupt any
regular or special meeting of the Board. Any person violating this provision
may be summarily ejected from the meeting and the Village Hall.
(Prior Code, § 2-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.16 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The President shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Trustees.
Except as provided in 65 ILCS 5/4-1-1 et seq. and 5/5-1-1 et seq., he or she
shall not vote on any ordinance, resolution or motion except where the vote of
the Board of Trustees has resulted in a tie; or where one-half of the Board of
Trustees elected have voted in favor of an ordinance, resolution or motion even
though there is no tie vote; or where a vote greater than a majority of the
Board of Trustees is required to adopt an ordinance, resolution or motion. In
each instance specified, the President shall vote.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall deprive an acting President or President
pro tem from voting in his or her capacity as Trustee, but he or she shall not
be entitled to another vote in his or her capacity as acting President or
President pro tem.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-30) (Prior Code, § 2-15)
§ 31.17 MEETINGS.
   The Board of Trustees shall hold its regular meetings on the second Tuesday
of each month beginning at 7:00 p.m. and no notice of such regular meeting
shall be required. The meeting place of the Board shall be at the Village Hall
unless otherwise ordered by the Board. If a regular meeting date falls on a
legal holiday, the meeting shall be held the next secular day at the same hour
and place. The President or any three Trustees may call special meetings of the
Board of Trustees. In addition to any notice requirement prescribed by the
Board of Trustees, public notice of meetings must be given as prescribed in 5
ILCS 120/2.02 and 120/2.03 of the Open Meetings Act.
(Prior Code, § 2-16)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-20
§ 31.18 QUORUM.
   A majority of the Board of Trustees shall constitute a quorum to do
business.
(Prior Code, § 2-17)
§ 31.19 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The order of business for meetings of the Board of Trustees shall be as
follows:
   (A)   Call to role by presiding officer;
   (B)   Roll call;
   (C)   Establishment of quorum;
   (D)   The reading and approval of minutes of previous meeting or meetings;
   (E)   Reports and communications from President and other officers;
   (F)   Reports from standing committees;
   (G)   Communications, resolutions or ordinances from Trustees;
   (H)   Public discussion or comments from floor;
   (I)   Old business;
   (J)   New business; and
   (K)   Adjournment.
(Prior Code, § 2-18)
ORDINANCES
§ 31.30 ORDINANCES AND RULES TO EXECUTE POWERS.
   The Board of Trustees may pass all ordinances and make all rules and
regulations proper or necessary, to carry into effect the powers granted to the
village, with such fines or penalties as may be deemed proper, provided that no
fine or penalty shall exceed $500.
(Prior Code, § 2-19)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1
§ 31.31 ORDAINING CLAUSE.
   The ordaining clause of ordinances shall be “Be it ordained by the President
and Board of Trustees of the Village of Davis.”
(Prior Code, § 2-20)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-2
§ 31.32 VOTE REQUIRED; METHOD OF VOTING.
   (A)   The passage of all ordinances for whatever purpose, and of any
resolution or motion to create any liability against the village or for the
expenditure or appropriation of its money, shall require the concurrence of a
majority of all members then holding office on the Board of Trustees, including
the President, unless otherwise expressly provided by this code or any other
act governing the passage of any ordinance, resolution or motion; provided,
that where the Board consists of an odd number of Trustees, the vote of the
majority of the Trustees shall be sufficient to pass an ordinance.
   (B)   Likewise, the yeas and nays shall be taken upon the question of the
passage of any other resolution or motion at the request of any Trustee and
shall be recorded in the journal.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-40) (Prior Code, § 2-21)
§ 31.33 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY PRESIDENT.
   (A)   (1)   All resolutions and motions which create any liability against
the village or which provide for the expenditure or appropriation of its money,
or to sell any village property, and all ordinances passed by the Board of
Trustees, shall be deposited with the Clerk. Except as provided in 65 ILCS 5/4-
1-1 et seq., if the President approves of an ordinance or resolution, the
President shall sign it.
      (2)   Those ordinances, resolutions and motions which he or she
disapproves he or she shall return to the Board of Trustees, with his or her
written objections, at the next regular meeting of the Board occurring not less
than five days after their passage.
   (B)   The President may disapprove of any one or more sums appropriated in
any ordinance, resolution or motion making an appropriation, and, if so, the
remainder shall be effective. However, the President may disapprove entirely of
an ordinance, resolution or motion making an appropriation. If the President
fails to return any ordinance or any specified return any ordinance or any
specified resolution or motion with his or her written objections within the
designated time, it shall become effective despite the absence of his or her
signature.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-45) (Prior Code, § 2-22)
§ 31.34 RECONSIDERATION.
   (A)   Every resolution and motion specified in §
31.33 and every ordinance which is returned to the Board of Trustees by the
President shall be reconsidered by the Board of Trustees at the next regular
meeting. If, after such reconsideration, two-thirds of all the Trustees then
holding office on the Board shall agree at such regular meeting to pass an
ordinance, resolution or motion, notwithstanding the President’s refusal to
approve it, then it shall be effective. The vote on the question of passage
over the President’s veto shall be by yeas and nays and shall be recorded in
the journal.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-50)
   (B)   No vote of the Board of Trustees shall be reconsidered or rescinded at
a special meeting, unless there are present at the special meeting as many
Trustees as were present when the vote was taken.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-55)
(Prior Code, § 2-23)
§ 31.35 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   All ordinances imposing any fine, penalty, imprisonment or forfeiture,
or making any appropriation, shall be printed or published in book or pamphlet
form, published by authority of the Board of Trustees, or be published at least
once, within 30 days after passage, in one or more newspapers published in the
village, or if no newspaper is published therein, then in one or more
newspapers with a general circulation within the village. If there is an error
in printing, the publishing requirement of this section shall be satisfied if
those portions of the ordinance that were erroneously printed are republished,
correctly, within 30 days after the original publication that contained the
error. The fact that an error occurred in publication shall not affect the
effective date of the ordinance so published. If the error in printing is not
corrected within 30 days after the date of the original publication that
contained the error, as provided in the preceding sentence, the corporate
authorities may by ordinance declare the ordinance that was erroneously
published to be nevertheless valid and in effect no sooner than the tenth day
after the date of the original publication, notwithstanding the error in
publication, and shall order the original ordinance to be published once more
within 30 days after the passage of the validating ordinance.
   (B)   Except as provided in 65 ILCS 5/1-2-4, no such ordinance shall take
effect until ten days after it is so published. However, ordinances
establishing rules and regulations for the construction of buildings or any
part thereof, or for the development or operation of camps accommodating
persons in house trailers, house cars, cabins or tents, where such rules and
regulations have been previously printed in book or pamphlet form, may by their
terms provide for the adoption of such rules and regulations or portions
thereof by reference thereto without further printing or publication, if not
less than three copies of such rules and regulations in book or pamphlet form
have been filed in the office of the Clerk for use and examination by the
public at least 30 days prior to the adoption thereof.
   (C)   All other ordinances, resolutions and motions shall take effect upon
their passage unless they otherwise provide.
   (D)   Anything in this section to the contrary notwithstanding, any
ordinance which contains a statement of its urgency in the preamble or body
thereof, other than an ordinance relating to finance, appropriations or taxes,
adopted under 65 ILCS 5/8-1-1 et seq. may take effect immediately upon its
passage; provided, that the Board of Trustees, by a vote of two-thirds of all
the members then holding office, so direct. The decision of the Board of
Trustees as to the urgency of any ordinance shall not be subject to judicial
review except for an abuse of discretion.
(65 ILCS 5/1-2-4) (Prior Code, § 2-24)
§ 31.36 RECORDATION.
   The Clerk shall record, in a book used exclusively for that purpose, all
ordinances passed by the Board of Trustees. Immediately following each
ordinance, the Clerk shall make a memorandum of the date of the passage and of
the publication or posting, where required, of the ordinance. This record and
memorandum, or a certified copy thereof, shall be prima facie evidence of the
contents, passage and of the publication or posting of ordinances.
(65 ILCS 5/1-2-5) (Prior Code, § 2-25)
§ 31.37 REVISION.
   The President may appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the Board
of Trustees, one or more competent persons to prepare and submit to the Board
of Trustees for adoption or rejection, an ordinance to revise the village
ordinances. The compensation for this revision shall be fixed by the Board of
Trustees and paid out of the Village Treasury.
(65 ILCS 5/1-2-3) (Prior Code, § 2-26)
§ 31.38 ADOPTION OF CODES AND PUBLIC RECORDS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC RECORD. Any village, state or federal statute, rule or regulation
and any ordinance or resolution of the county in which the village is located,
adopted prior to the exercise by any village of the authority to incorporate by
reference herein granted; however, this definition shall not include the
village ordinances, rules or regulations of any village except those of the
village which is exercising the right to incorporate by reference, nor shall
this definition include the state laws, rules or regulations of any state other
than the state.
      PUBLISHED. Printed, lithographed, multigraphed, mimeographed or otherwise
reproduced.
      REGULATIONS. Any published compilation of rules and regulations which
have been prepared by nationally recognized technical trade or service
associations and shall include specifically, building codes; plumbing codes;
electrical wiring codes; fire prevention codes; codes for the slaughtering,
processing and selling of meats and meat products for human consumption; codes
for the production, pasteurizing and sale of milk and milk products.
   (B)   The village is hereby authorized to adopt by reference, as criteria
for the issuance of construction, reconstruction, alteration or installation
permits, the provisions of any regulations or portions of any regulations as
defined in division (A) above, without setting forth the provisions of such
regulations in full, provided that at least three copies of such regulations
which are incorporated or adopted by reference are filed in the office of the
Clerk and there kept available for public use, inspection and examination. The
village is likewise authorized and empowered to adopt by reference the
provisions of any public records, provided, likewise, that three copies of such
public record are kept on file in the office of the Clerk as provided above for
regulations. The filing requirement herein prescribed shall not be deemed to be
complied with unless the required copies of such regulations or public record
are filed with the Clerk for a period of 30 days prior to adoption of the
ordinance which incorporates such regulations or public record by reference. No
regulations nor public record of any jurisdiction other than the state shall be
adopted hereunder covering any subject matter for which standards are available
in any public record of the state.
(Prior Code, § 2-27)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 50 ILCS 200/1 and 65 ILCS 5/1-3-1
STANDING COMMITTEES
§ 31.50 AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may have one or more standing committees with
the powers, functions and duties established by ordinance.
   (B)   The standing committees which have been established are as follows:
      (1)   Water/Sewer;
      (2)   Streets/Alleys;
      (3)   Park;
      (4)   Liquor;
      (5)   Finance;
      (6)   Police;
      (7)   Garbage; and
      (8)   Cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 2-28)
§ 31.51 MEMBERS.
   The members of each standing committee shall be appointed from time to time
by the President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 2-29)
CHAPTER 32: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
   
32.01   Administration of finances; fiscal year
   
32.02   Annual appropriation ordinance
   
32.03   Supplemental appropriation; transfers
   
32.04   Limitations; emergency; borrowing
   
32.05   Levy and collection of taxes
   
32.06   Annual audits and reports
   
32.07   Contracts
§ 32.01 ADMINISTRATION OF FINANCES; FISCAL YEAR.
   (A)   Administration of finances. The Board of Trustees shall control the
finances of the village.
(65 ILCS 5/8-1-1) (Prior Code, § 2-44)
   (B)   Fiscal year. The fiscal year for the village shall begin on May 1 of
each year and shall end on April 30 of the following year.
(Prior Code, § 2-45)
§ 32.02 ANNUAL APPROPRIATION ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall pass an ordinance within the first quarter
of each fiscal year, to be termed the annual appropriation ordinance. In this
ordinance, the Board may appropriate sums of money deemed necessary to defray
all necessary expenses and liabilities of the village and shall specify the
objects and purposes for which these appropriations are made and the amount
appropriated for each object or purpose.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
32.03, no further appropriations shall be made at any other time within the
same fiscal year, unless a proposition to make each additional appropriation
has been first sanctioned by a petition signed by the electors of the village
numbering more than 50% of the number of votes cast for the candidates for
President at the last preceding general election at which a President was
elected, by a petition signed by them, or by a majority of those voting on the
question at a regular election, or at an emergency referendum authorized in
accordance with the general election law. The Board of Trustees may by
ordinance initiate the submission of such proposition.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees shall file with the County Clerk within 30 days
of their adoption a certified copy of its appropriation and budget ordinances
or resolutions, as well as an estimate, certified by the chief fiscal officer
of the village, of revenues, by source, anticipated by the village in the
following fiscal year. Failure of the Board to file the required documents
shall authorize the County Clerk to refuse to extend the tax levy imposed by
the Board until such documents are so filed and upon giving timely notice of
such failure to file to the Board by the County Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 2-46)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 35 ILCS 205/162
§ 32.03 SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATION; TRANSFERS.
   (A)   During any fiscal year, the Board of Trustees may adopt a supplemental
appropriation ordinance in an amount not in excess of the aggregate of any
additional revenue available to the village, or estimated to be received by the
village after the adoption of the annual appropriation ordinance for that
fiscal year, or from fund balances available when the annual appropriation
ordinance was adopted but that were not appropriated at that time. The
provision of §
32.02 prohibiting further appropriations without sanction by petition or
election shall not be applicable to the supplemental appropriation for that
fiscal year.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees at any time, however, by a two-thirds vote of
all the members of such body, may make transfers within any department or other
separate agency of the village government, of sums of money appropriated for
one corporate object or purpose to another corporate object or purpose, but no
appropriation for any object or purpose shall thereby be reduced below an
amount sufficient to cover all obligations incurred or to be incurred against
such appropriation. Nothing herein contained shall deprive the Board of
Trustees of the power to provide for and cause to be paid from the funds of the
village any charge imposed by law without the action of the Board of Trustees,
the payment of which is ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 2-47)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/8-2-9
§ 32.04 LIMITATIONS; EMERGENCY; BORROWING.
   (A)   Neither the Board of Trustees nor any department or officer of the
village shall add to the village expenditures in any fiscal year anything over
and above the amount provided for in the annual appropriation ordinance of that
year. No expenditure for an improvement to be paid for out of the General Fund
of the village shall exceed in any fiscal year the amount provided for that
improvement in the annual appropriation ordinance.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Board of Trustees, by two-
thirds vote, from making additional appropriations for the purpose of making
improvements or restorations, the necessity for which is caused by any casualty
or accident happening after the annual appropriation ordinance is passed, nor
from making additional appropriations necessary to meet any emergency,
happening after and unforeseen at the time of passing the annual appropriation
ordinance.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, EMERGENCY means a condition
requiring immediate action to suppress or prevent the spread of disease, or to
prevent or remove imminent danger to persons or property. For the purpose of
providing for these additional appropriations, the Board of Trustees, by a two-
thirds vote, may authorize the President to borrow the amount of money
necessary therefor for a space of time not extending beyond the close of the
next fiscal year.
      (3)   The sum borrowed and the interest thereon, shall be added to the
amount authorized to be raised in the next general tax levy and embraced
therein.
   (C)   (1)   Should a judgment be obtained against the village, the
President, under the sanction of the Board of Trustees, may borrow a sufficient
amount to pay the judgment for a space of time not extending beyond the close
of the next fiscal year.
      (2)   This sum and the interest thereon shall in like manner be added to
the amount authorized to be raised in the general tax levy of the next year and
embraced therein.
(65 ILCS 5/8-1-6) (Prior Code, § 2-48)
§ 32.05 LEVY AND COLLECTION OF TAXES.
   The Board of Trustees shall levy and collect taxes for corporate purposes in
the manner provided in 65 ILCS 5/8-3-1 and subject to the Truth in Taxation
Act, 35 ILCS 215/1.
(Prior Code, § 2-49)
§ 32.06 ANNUAL AUDITS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall cause an audit of the funds and accounts
of the village to be made by an accountant as required by 65 ILCS 5/8-8-3.
   (B)   The village shall, within six months after the close of each fiscal
year, unless an extension is granted, file with the State Comptroller an audit
report and supplemental report or a financial report as by state law.
(Prior Code, § 2-50)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/8-8-3 and 5/8-8-4
§ 32.07 CONTRACTS.
   (A)   No contract shall be entered into by the village for goods or services
unless such contract shall be approved by resolution or ordinance duly passed
by the Board of Trustees, except as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The President may approve contracts for goods and services where the
contract amount is less than $2,000, without the approval of the Board of
Trustees. However, the President shall report such a contract to the Board of
Trustees at the Board meeting next following approval of the contract.
   (C)   All contracts of the village shall be signed by the President.
   (D)   No contract shall be approved for which there is no prior
appropriation.
   (E)   Any work or other public improvement not paid for in whole or in part
by special assessment or special taxation, when the expense thereof shall
exceed $10,000 shall:
      (1)   Be let to the lowest responsible bidder after advertising for bids
in one or more newspapers of general circulation within the village; or
      (2)   Let without bids if authorized by a vote of two-thirds of the
Trustees then holding office, the President not voting.
(Prior Code, § 2-51)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/8-9-1 et seq.
CHAPTER 33: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Police Department
   
33.01   Department created; composition
   
33.02   Chief of Police; duties
   
33.03   Village police officers
   
33.04   Duties
   
33.05   Warrants
   
33.06   Conduct of members
   
33.07   Witness fee
   
33.08   Rules and regulations
   
33.09   Auxiliary police
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.01 DEPARTMENT CREATED; COMPOSITION.
   (A)   Department created. There is hereby created a Police Department of the
village.
   (B)   Composition of Department. The Police Department shall consist of the
Village Chief of Police and as many village police officers as may be
authorized from time to time by the President and Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 2020-1-1, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-1 et seq.
§ 33.02 CHIEF OF POLICE; DUTIES.
   (A)   Office created.
      (1)   There is hereby created the office of Village Chief of Police.
      (2)   The Village Chief of Police shall be a part-time position. In the
event the population of the village, as established by census, exceeds 1,001,
the Board of Trustees shall have the authority, at the sole discretion of the
Board of Trustees, to pass an ordinance changing the office of Village Chief of
Police from a part-time position to a full-time position.
   (B)   Appointment. The Village Chief of Police shall be appointed by the
Village President, with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Qualifications. The minimum qualifications for the Village Chief of
Police shall be as follows:
      (1)   Have served as a professional police officer for at least five
consecutive years;
      (2)   Have obtained a high school diploma;
      (3)   Have three years of law enforcement supervisory experience with a
department of comparable or larger size to the Village Police Department;
      (4)   Have successfully completed all law enforcement officer training
required by the State Law Enforcement Police Training and Standards Board
pursuant to the State Police Training Act (50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.);
      (5)   Have successfully completed all firearm training pursuant to the
State Peace Officer Probation Officer Training Act (50 ILCS 710/1 et seq.); and
      (6)   As of the date of appointment, establish and maintain a legal and
permanent residency within a 25-mile radius from the Village Hall, as
established from time to time by the Board of Trustees, and notwithstanding the
25-mile radius, be a resident of the state.
   (D)   Duties. The Village Chief of Police shall keep such records and make
such reports concerning the activities of the Village Police Department as may
be required by statute or by the President and Board of Trustees. In the
absence of or vacancy in the office of Chief of Police, the village police
officer shall perform each of these duties. In the event there is more than one
village police officer, the Chief of Police shall appoint a village police
officer who shall perform each of the Chief of Police duties in the absence or
vacancy of the office of Chief of Police. In the event the vacancy or absence
is due to the firing or otherwise improper conduct of the Chief of Police, the
Village President shall appoint a village police officer to perform each of the
duties of the office of Chief of Police.
(Ord. 2020-1-1, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5 and 5/11-1-1 et seq.
§ 33.03 VILLAGE POLICE OFFICERS.
   All village police officers shall be subject to the following regulations.
   (A)   All individuals serving as village police officers shall be part-time
police officers, as defined in § 8.2 of the State Police Training Act (50 ILCS
705/8.2). No officer shall work as a part-time police officer for the village
more than 30 hours per week.
   (B)   All part-time police officers shall be hired by the Village President,
upon recommendation of the Village Chief of Police, and with the approval of
the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   All part-time village police officers shall meet the following
standards and qualifications:
      (1)   At least 21 years of age as of the date of hire by the village;
      (2)   Have received, prior to being hired by the village, a certificate
of successful completion from the State Law Enforcement Training and Standards
Board, or a waiver thereof of the training required for part-time police
officers. If the applicant is a full-time law enforcement officer for another
law enforcement agency and the number of annual hours worked for that other law
enforcement agency plus the anticipated annual hours worked for the village
would exceed 1,560 hours per year, this requirement shall be waived upon the
presentation of a certificate of successful completion of requirements of a
full-time police officer from the State Law Enforcement Training and Standards
Board, or a waiver of the same training;
      (3)   Be of good moral character;
      (4)   Have not been convicted of or placed on court supervision for any
misdemeanor or felony offences;
      (5)   At the time of hire shall not be indebted in any amount to the
village;
      (6)   Be physically able, with or without reasonable accommodation, to
perform all of the essential job functions, as approved by the Board of
Trustees from time to time in the job description for the office of village
police officer;
      (7)   Possess a valid state firearm owners identification card at the
time of hire and maintain said card throughout employment as a village police
officer;
      (8)   Successfully complete all requirements of the village hiring
process. The village hiring process may include, but is not limited to, a
written test, a physical agility test, psychological evaluation, lie detector
test and interviews with village officials upon request; and
      (9)   Establish a legal and permanent residency within a 25-mile radius
from the Village Hall, as designated from time to time by the Village Board of
Trustees. The residency must be established within 120 days of hire by the
village. This 120-day period may be extended for an additional 120 days by a
vote of the Village Board of Trustees for good cause shown.
(Ord. 2020-1-1, passed - -)
§ 33.04 DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Village Chief of Police and of each
village police officer to enforce all state and federal laws, the ordinances of
the village and all statutes applicable herein; and to preserve order and
prevent infractions of the law and to arrest violators thereof.
      (2)   A member of the Department shall have power to arrest persons
without warrants, within the village, for any criminal offense committed or
attempted in the presence of the arresting officer, or for criminal offense
which has in fact been committed when there are reasonable grounds for
believing that person arrested has committed such offense.
   (B)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, REASONABLE GROUNDS shall
include inter alia, information received from any reputable citizen identifying
the person to be arrested as the person having committed the criminal offense.
      (2)   The Chief of Police shall also attend the mandatory annual 20 hours
of training as required of all chiefs of police by state law.
(Ord. 2020-1-1, passed - -)
§ 33.05 WARRANTS.
   Members of the Department are hereby authorized to serve and execute
warrants for violation of ordinances, and criminal warrants, and to serve
writs, summonses or other processes within the corporate limits of the village.
(Ord. 2020-1-1, passed - -)
§ 33.06 CONDUCT OF MEMBERS.
   It shall be the duty of the members of the Department to conduct themselves
at all times in a proper and law-abiding manner, to avoid the use of
unnecessary force or engage in any conduct which brings discredit upon the
Department or interferes with job performance.
(Ord. 2020-1-1, passed - -)
§ 33.07 WITNESS FEE.
   (A)   Members of the Department shall appear as a witness whenever necessary
in the prosecution of any violation of village ordinances, state or federal
law.
   (B)   No such member shall retain any witness fee for service as witness in
any action or suit to which the village is a party; and fees paid for such
services shall be turned over to the Village Treasurer.
(Ord. 2020-1-1, passed - -)
§ 33.08 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Village President shall recommend, and the President and Board of
Trustees shall approve, such rules and regulations for hours of duty,
vacations, conduct and discipline of members of the Department as deemed
advisable from time to time.
(Ord. 2020-1-1, passed - -)
§ 33.09 AUXILIARY POLICE.
   Any citizen of the United States, who is a resident of the village, or lives
within a 25-mile radius of the Village Hall, is at least 18 years of age, has
no felony or misdemeanor convictions, and is of good character, may be
appointed an auxiliary police officer by the Chief of Police or President;
provided, that no such auxiliary police officer shall be entitled to any
compensation from the village, nor shall such auxiliary police officer be
considered an employee of the village by reason of such appointment. Auxiliary
police officers shall obey all rules of the village applicable to them and may
be deprived of their appointment at any time or for any reason by the Chief of
Police. Auxiliary police officers are not considered conservators of the peace
and shall not carry firearms as part of their duties. Any identification in
uniforms worn by an auxiliary police officer shall be different and distinct
from those use by members of the Village Police Department. The duties of
auxiliary police officer shall be as prescribed from time to time by the Chief
of Police, or as set from time to time in an ordinance by the President and
Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 2020-1-1, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-20
CHAPTER 34: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
State Gift Ban Act
   
34.01   Adoption of Act
   
34.02   Ethics officer
   
34.03   State and Legislative Commission; complaints
   
34.04   Future amendments
   
34.05   Future declaration of unconstitutionality of Act
STATE GIFT BAN ACT
§ 34.01 ADOPTION OF ACT.
   (A)   The State Gift Ban Act (5 ILCS 425 et seq.) is hereby adopted as
required by § 83 of the Act (5 ILCS 425/83).
   (B)   The solicitation or the acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited
or accepted under the Act is prohibited by any elected or appointed official or
any employee of the village.
   (C)   All non-salaried appointed or elected officials are exempted from the
Act and the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1999-2, passed 6-8-1999)
§ 34.02 ETHICS OFFICER.
   (A)   To the extent authorized by law and to the extent required by § 35 of
the Act (5 ILCS 425/35), the Village President is authorized to appoint an
“ethics officer” of the village.
   (B)   The ethics officer’s duties shall be as provided in § 35 of the Act.
(Ord. 1999-2, passed 6-8-1999)
§ 34.03 STATE AND LEGISLATIVE COMMISSION; COMPLAINTS.
   All complaints for violations of the Act and this subchapter shall be filed
with the State Legislative Ethics Commission (created by § 45(a)(6) of the
Act).
(Ord. 1999-2, passed 6-8-1999)
§ 34.04 FUTURE AMENDMENTS.
   Any amendment to the State Gift Ban Act (5 ILCS 425/1 et seq.) that becomes
effective after the passage of this subchapter shall be incorporated into this
subchapter by reference and shall be applicable to the solicitation and
acceptance of gifts. However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional
for adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated into this subchapter
by reference without formal action by the corporate authorities of the village.
(Ord. 1999-2, passed 6-8-1999)
§ 34.05 FUTURE DECLARATION OF UNCONSTITUTIONALITY OF ACT.
   (A)   If the State Supreme Court declares the State Gift Ban Act (5 ILCS
425/1 et seq.) unconstitutional in its entirety, then this subchapter shall be
repealed as of the date that the Supreme Court’s decision becomes final and not
subject to any further appeals or rehearings. This subchapter shall be deemed
as repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the village
if the Act is found unconstitutional by the State Supreme Court.
   (B)   If the State Supreme Court declares part of the State Gift Ban Act (5
ILCS 425/1 et seq.) unconstitutional but upholds the constitutionality of the
remainder of the Act or does not address the remainder of the Act, then the
remainder of the Act as adopted by this subchapter shall remain in full force
and effect; however, that part of this subchapter relating to the part of the
Act found unconstitutional shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the village.
(Ord. 1999-2, passed 6-8-1999)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   CROSS-CONNECTIONS
      
53.   SEWERS
      
54.   WASTEWATER
      
55.   RENEWABLE ENERGY
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Contract agreement
Collection and Disposal
   
50.15   Franchise authority
   
50.16   Residential solid waste collection
   
50.17   Garbage bag sticker
   
50.18   Storage
   
50.19   Container placement
   
50.20   Commercial storage
   
50.21   Commercial disposal
   
50.22   Waste designation
   
50.23   Regulations
Recycling
   
50.35   Recycling collection
   
50.36   Recycling containers
   
50.37   Placement and storage of recycling containers
   
50.38   Recycling materials
   
50.39   Scavenging prohibited
   
50.40   Cost of collection
   
50.41   Additional recycling programs
Yard Waste
   
50.55   Yard waste disposal
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BAGS. Plastic sacks or receptacles designed to store household waste with
sufficient wall strength to maintain physical integrity when lifted by top.
Total weight of a BAG and its contents shall not exceed 50 pounds.
   BASE RATE. The minimum monthly charge assessed by the village to each
residential dwelling for basic household waste collection and disposal, and
recycling services. The BASE RATE shall be set by contract and shall not
include the charge assessed for additional bags of household waste collected in
addition to the first 30-gallon bag for each household.
   BULKY HOUSEHOLD WASTE. Rubbish, such as stoves, refrigerators, water
heaters, washing machines, white goods, furniture and waste materials other
than construction debris, dead animals, hazardous waste or stable matter with
weights or volumes greater than those allowed for containers.
   COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE. Garbage or refuse generated by a producer within the
corporate limits other than a residential dwelling unit, including, but not
limited to, multi-family dwellings, business, commercial or industrial
producers.
   CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS. Waste building materials resulting from construction,
remodeling, repair, renovation and demolition operations.
   RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNIT. Any single- or multi-family dwelling of         
or less within the corporate limits of the village.
   RESIDENTIAL HOUSEHOLD WASTE. Household waste generated by a producer at a
residential dwelling unit.
   RUBBISH. All non-putrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible waste, including, but not limited to, paper, plastics, bottles,
glass, cardboard, metal, cans, bricks, ashes, sod, dirt, rocks, cement, trees,
wood, leather and any other like materials small enough for one man to handle.
RUBBISH does not include yard waste, bulky household waste, dead animals,
garbage, stable matter and hazardous wastes.
   SELF-ADHESIVE STICKER. A sticker produced and printed for placement on each
bag of household waste not included in the base rate charge to residential
dwelling units.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage or rubbish.
   STABLE MATTER. All manure and other waste matter normally accumulated in or
about a stable, or any animal, livestock or poultry enclosure, and resulting
from the keeping of animals or livestock.
   VOLUME BASED RATES. Billing method that uses a base rate and a self-adhesive
sticker to provide an incentive for producers to recycle and to more fairly
apportion the costs of providing collection and recycling services.
   YARD WASTE. Compostable, organic material consisting of dead plants, weeds,
Christmas trees, tree or hedge trimmings, grass clippings and leaves, but
excluding tree limbs over two inches in diameter and 48 inches in length.
(Prior Code, § 13-1)
§ 50.02 CONTRACT AGREEMENT.
   The village has a contract with Gill’s Freeport Disposal for waste removal
services, established December 31, 2024. This agreement for solid waste
services, and any and all regulations, are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full. Where the provisions of this chapter
conflict with the provisions on the contract agreement, the contract shall
prevail.
COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
§ 50.15 FRANCHISE AUTHORITY.
   The village shall collect residential household waste from all residential
dwelling units as defined. The village, subject to Village Board authorization
and approval, may collect solid waste itself or it may franchise the authority
to collect commercial solid waste and/or residential solid waste to one or more
contractors through the use of either competitive bidding or negotiated
contracts. The village shall also have the authority to regulate and/or to
require all producers to separate recyclable materials from waste materials as
a condition for collection.
(Prior Code, § 13-2)
§ 50.16 RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE COLLECTION.
   Household waste collection from residential dwelling units shall be made
only by the village or designated contractors and only in the following manner.
   (A)   Collection shall occur at least once every seven days.
   (B)   Collection shall be made curbside or in a location mutually agreed
between the Village Board and the contractor.
   (C)   Collections shall be from containers or bags no larger than 30
gallons, larger containers or bags being subject to pick-up refusal and
enforcement action.
   (D)   Billing for collection shall be made using volume based rates, and
residents shall be encouraged, but not required, to separate household wastes
from recyclable materials. However, household waste commingled with hazardous
waste or yard waste shall be refused for collection and subject to enforcement
action.
   (E)   Participation in the village’s residential household waste collection
program is mandatory and shall apply to all residential dwelling units.
(Prior Code, § 13-3)
§ 50.17 GARBAGE BAG STICKER.
   Residential household waste collection charges shall be based on the
dwelling unit’s disposal volume. The base rate shall apply to each residential
dwelling unit rate, and shall apply to each residential dwelling unit rate, and
shall include the cost of disposal for one 30-gallon bag of waste. Each
additional 30-gallon bag of waste set by out for collection shall display a
self-adhesive sticker at a rate and in a manner to be set by contract, and
failure to do so shall be considered a violation of this chapter. It shall be
unlawful to tamper with, remove, change, alter or deface any sticker.
(Prior Code, § 13-4) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.18 STORAGE.
   (A)   Residential household waste stored outside of a dwelling, garage or
utility building must be placed in clean garbage containers with tight fitting
lids at the rear of the dwelling unit or a suitable place out of public view.
Filthy, leaking or defective containers shall be cleaned, repaired or replaced
by the owner or occupant of the dwelling unit, at his or her expense.
   (B)   All containers shall be kept clean and disinfected with an antiseptic
solution as often as necessary to prevent odors from becoming a nuisance.
Neglect of these requirements or use of unsafe, unsanitary or unsightly
containers shall subject residential dwelling unit owners and/or occupants to
enforcement action. Producers shall not allow solid waste to accumulate on
their property past the established collection day.
(Prior Code, § 13-5) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.19 CONTAINER PLACEMENT.
   (A)   Containers shall be placed at or near the curb in front of each
dwelling unit where they can be seen from the street or road on scheduled pick-
up days. The Village Board and the Contractor may mutually agree to a different
location for pickup for the village or parts of the village.
   (B)   Garbage container bags placed for collection shall be tightly bound
and closed by means of a staple or twist-tie. Containers may be placed by the
curb or roadside no earlier than after dusk or 8:00 p.m., whichever is later,
on the day prior to the scheduled residential waste collection.
   (C)   Containers must be returned to their dwelling or out of public view by
6:00 p.m. on the day of collection.
(Prior Code, § 13-6)
§ 50.20 COMMERCIAL STORAGE.
   Institutional, commercial, business or industrial establishments, as well as
apartment buildings of greater than eight units, any of which produce solid
waste within the corporate limits of the village shall provide sufficient and
adequate containers for the storage of all solid waste produced by such
establishments. When bulk containers are provided by private firms, the name
and telephone number of the firm shall be printed on the side. All containers
shall be waterproof, leakproof and shall be covered at all times subsequent to
depositing waste therein or removing the contents thereof. It shall be the
responsibility of the owner, operator or manager of the establishment to see
that they are maintained in a sanitary condition.
(Prior Code, § 13-7)
§ 50.21 COMMERCIAL DISPOSAL.
   Establishments producing large quantities of solid waste and other refuse
shall cause the removal and disposal of all such waste or refuse from
containers as often as necessary, but no less than every seven days, to ensure
a healthy environment around the establishments. Such establishments shall not
allow solid waste or refuse to spill over from the container and they shall
make arrangement for the proper removal and disposal of any such spillage.
(Prior Code, § 13-8)
§ 50.22 WASTE DESIGNATION.
   The City of Freeport’s Municipal Sanitary Landfill shall be the exclusive
site for the processing and disposal of all solid waste collected by commercial
solid waste collection firms within the geographical confines of the village.
The terms and conditions of this section shall be specified in an
intergovernmental agreement between the village and said city.
(Prior Code, § 13-9)
§ 50.23 REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of any contract for the collection of solid waste and/or the
collection of recyclable materials subsequently adopted to this chapter shall
be consistent with this chapter. All contract provisions may by passage of a
resolution of the Village Board be adopted by reference as if fully set forth
herein. The Village Board may adopt additional regulations by resolution to
implement the intent of this chapter. The chapter does not imply a right to a
contract nor restrict the village from ensuring its rights by contract nor
restrict the village from ensuring its rights by contract, including, but not
limited to, contractual provisions regarding financial responsibility and the
village’s rights to ensure compliance with this chapter and with its contract.
(Prior Code, § 13-10)
RECYCLING
§ 50.35 RECYCLING COLLECTION.
   There is hereby established in the village a curbside recycling program
operated by the village or contractors of the village for residential dwelling
units to provide for the separation of designated recyclable materials and for
placement of such materials in special designated recycling containers. The
village shall designate the special recycling containers to be used for the
purpose of storing recycling materials on site at the residential dwelling unit
and placement of those materials curbside. Residents shall use only the village
designated recycling containers or a container approved by the contractor.
(Prior Code, § 13-12)
§ 50.36 RECYCLING CONTAINERS.
   The village shall provide specially labeled recycling containers to each
residential dwelling unit. The village shall maintain ownership of the
containers. However, each residential dwelling unit shall be responsible for
the normal and reasonable care of the recycling containers entrusted to the
dwelling unit’s care, and the cost of replacement of containers which are
damaged or lost through misuse, misplacement, theft or neglect.
(Prior Code, § 13-13)
§ 50.37 PLACEMENT AND STORAGE OF RECYCLING CONTAINERS.
   Recycling containers shall be stored on the residential dwelling unit’s
premises and may be placed at the dwelling unit’s designated location for
collection only during the time specified for household solid waste collection.
(Prior Code, § 13-14)
§ 50.38 RECYCLING MATERIALS.
   (A   The village’s recycling program shall provide, at minimum, for the
collection of household metal, newsprint, corrugated cardboard, number one and
number two plastic bottles which are separated from the waste stream and placed
in the recycling container for collection on the regularly scheduled pick-up
day.
   (B)   (1)   The Village Board may from time to time change the materials to
be separated from the waste stream and include new materials in the recycling
program, upon satisfactory evidence of a marketing outlet or disposal network
for such materials.
      (2)   Residents shall be notified in writing and by public notice of any
change in recycling materials collected from residential dwelling units. Such
changes in collected materials shall be binding upon contractors.
(Prior Code, § 13-15)
§ 50.39 SCAVENGING PROHIBITED.
   Once recyclable material has been placed in and along recycling containers
and set curbside or at the designated collection point, recycling materials
become the property of the village until lifted into the contractor’s truck or
recycling vehicle, at which time such materials shall be and become the
property and responsibility of the contractor. It shall be unlawful for person,
firms or corporations to remove any recyclable material set out or aside for
collection.
(Prior Code, § 13-16) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.40 COST OF COLLECTION.
   The cost of collection of recyclable materials shall be included within the
base rate for household waste collection and disposal charged to residential
dwelling units by the village; no additional charges shall be levied on any
residential dwelling unit as a condition of recycling collection. The revenue
derived from the sale of recyclable materials shall be the contractor’s
revenue.
(Prior Code, § 13-17)
§ 50.41 ADDITIONAL RECYCLING PROGRAMS.
   Institutions, firms, factories, businesses, commercial establishments and
apartment complexes that do not fit the definition of residential dwelling unit
may be included in the village’s recycling program upon promulgation of
regulations by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 13-18)
YARD WASTE
§ 50.55 YARD WASTE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   No producer of yard waste shall mix or commingle yard waste with solid
waste or household waste or with any recyclable material. Any such commingling
of yard waste or landscape waste is hereby prohibited. If the Freeport
Municipal Landfill lifts its prohibition against commingling yard waste with
solid waste, the Village Board may, by resolution, waive the prohibition
established in this section.
   (B)   The village is empowered to contract a private firm, individuals or
other public entities to operate a yard waste collection program either
separately or in conjunction with the village’s residential household waste
collection and recycling program.
(Prior Code, § 13-19) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter or its regulations
shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $250.
(Prior Code, § 13-11)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Water Department
   
51.02   Consumption of water in village
   
51.03   Users subject to regulations
   
51.04   Discontinuing service for violations
   
51.05   Department’s right of entry
   
51.06   Application for connection required
   
51.07   Permit required for each connection
   
51.08   Issuance of connection permit
   
51.09   Inspection and approval of plumbing
   
51.10   Prerequisites to turning on water
   
51.11   Location of private hydrants
   
51.12   Consumers supplying water to others
   
51.13   Connections for multiple premises
   
51.14   Right to restrict water use
   
51.15   Village not liable for damages
   
51.16   Property owners responsible for payments
   
51.17   Notice of lease or sale of property
   
51.18   Obstructing or damaging system
   
51.19   Operation of valves and shut-off valves
   
51.20   Suspension of lawn watering
Fees and Collection
   
51.35   Turn-on and turn-off fees
   
51.36   Deposit required
   
51.37   Monthly water and sewer charges
   
51.38   Delinquent bills
   
51.39   Termination procedure
   
51.40   Delinquent bills without water service
   
51.41   Restoration of terminated service
   
51.42   Treasurer to issue bills and collect amounts due
   
51.43   Late payment penalty
   
51.44   Lien for rates and charges
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 WATER DEPARTMENT.
   There is hereby established an executive department of the village to be
known as the Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 21-1)
§ 51.02 CONSUMPTION OF WATER IN VILLAGE.
   All water consumers within the village shall be supplied by the village and
shall pay for water at the rates and in the manner set forth in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 21-2)
§ 51.03 USERS SUBJECT TO REGULATIONS.
   Every user of water from the village water system shall be governed by and
subject to the provisions and conditions of this chapter and other ordinances
of the village, in effect or to become in effect, and the regulations, policies
and procedures established by the Board of Trustees to implement the same.
(Prior Code, § 21-3)
§ 51.04 DISCONTINUING SERVICE FOR VIOLATIONS.
   The Chairperson of the Water Committee shall have the responsibility and the
authority to order termination of the village water service to any premises
where a violation or neglect or refusal to comply with this chapter is not
corrected within ten days after a notice stating the intent to terminate
service and the reason therefor has been served on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 21-4)
Cross-reference:
   Restoration of terminated service, see §
51.41
   Water termination procedure, see §
51.39
§ 51.05 DEPARTMENT’S RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Agents and employees of the Water Department shall, in the performance of
their duly assigned duties and upon presentation of proper credentials
identifying them, have free access, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00
p.m., or such other times as may be required by emergency, to any and all
premises supplied with village water.
(Prior Code, § 21-5)
§ 51.06 APPLICATION FOR CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   Any person desiring to make any connection with the village water system, or
to use water therefrom, shall first make application to the Chairperson of the
Water Committee upon a form furnished by the village. Every such applicant
shall state specifically and in detail the location, type and size of
connection sought, the purpose for which the water is to be used and all the
plumbing or plumbing work in any manner or way connected therewith.
(Prior Code, § 21-6)
§ 51.07 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR EACH CONNECTION.
   A permit must be obtained for each connection to the village water system.
Each connection shall serve a single building, residence, premises or place,
except where specifically allowed by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 21-7)
§ 51.08 ISSUANCE OF CONNECTION PERMIT.
   (A)   After an applicant for water has complied with all of the provisions
of this chapter and other ordinances of the village, the Board of Trustees
shall issue a permit authorizing the connection to be made and specifying the
location and size thereof. The connection, from the public water main through
the meter setting, must be constructed by a plumber licensed and bonded to work
in the village.
   (B)   If any work is to be performed in a public right-of-way, a permit must
be obtained from the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   The plumber shall be solely responsible for the work performed and for
any and all damages resulting from such work.
(Prior Code, § 21-8)
§ 51.09 INSPECTION AND APPROVAL OF PLUMBING.
   (A)   Every connection to the village water system and all plumbing served
by such connection shall be subject to inspection, supervision and approval by
the Chairperson of the Water Committee or an authorized agent of the
Chairperson and shall be constructed in compliance with specifications prepared
by the Chairperson.
   (B)   Every person intending to make a connection to the village water
system shall notify the Chairperson of the Water Committee in advance of the
date and time connection will be made.
   (C)   After a connection to the village water system has been made, the
person who made such connection shall report its exact location in plan and
profile, its size and its materials of construction to the Chairperson of the
Water Committee.
(Prior Code, § 21-9)
§ 51.10 PREREQUISITES TO TURNING ON WATER.
   (A)   Water shall not be turned on for use in any premises or property
except upon the order of the Chairperson of the Water Committee, who shall not
issue such order unless the requisite application has been made and all amounts
owed the Water Department have been paid in full.
   (B)   (1)   Except for purposes of testing their work, plumbers are strictly
prohibited from turning water on to any service connection without the express
order and permission of the Chairperson of the Water Committee.
      (2)   After completing any test of their work, plumbers must turn off
water to a service which was turned on to perform the test.
(Prior Code, § 21-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.11 LOCATION OF PRIVATE HYDRANTS.
   No private hydrant shall be located in any public right-of-way or on any
public property.
(Prior Code, § 21-11)
§ 51.12 CONSUMERS SUPPLYING WATER TO OTHERS.
   No owners or occupants of any property to which village water is supplied
shall supply water to other persons or properties.
(Prior Code, § 21-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.13 CONNECTIONS FOR MULTIPLE PREMISES.
   (A)   Where a service connection is intended to supply two or more distinct
premises or apartments, a separate and distinct shutoff valve must be provided
for each premises or apartment, located outside of the same.
   (B)   No service connection shall supply more than one property.
(Prior Code, § 21-13)
§ 51.14 RIGHT TO RESTRICT WATER USE.
   The President and the Board of Trustees shall have authority to restrict the
use of water when, in their opinion, the public exigencies require it.
(Prior Code, § 21-14)
§ 51.15 VILLAGE NOT LIABLE FOR DAMAGES.
   All connections to the village water system and all water used therefrom
shall be upon the express condition that the village shall not be liable, nor
shall any claim be made against it for damages or injury resulting from the
breakage of or leakage from any pipe or appurtenances connected with the
system, nor for any interruption of the supply for any reason whatsoever. To
the extent permitted by conditions and demands of time, the Water Department
shall notify customers in advance of interruptions of water service.
(Prior Code, § 21-15)
§ 51.16 PROPERTY OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR PAYMENTS.
   Property owners shall be responsible for the payment of water and sewer
charges notwithstanding the fact that they may lease their property to others.
The senior citizens apartment complex known as “Rose Hill Apartments” shall be
exempt from the requirements of this section and, accordingly, tenants of said
complex shall be responsible for their own water and sewer costs.
(Prior Code, § 21-16)
§ 51.17 NOTICE OF LEASE OR SALE OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   Every owner of property served by the village water system shall
notify the Chairperson of the Water Committee within ten days after making any
lease or contract of sale of such property. The notice shall include the name
of the tenant or purchaser, the duration of the lease or the period of the
contract and the street address of the property.
   (B)   A $25 fee shall be assessed upon an individual who does not report a
change of occupants of a residence within 30 days of the occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 21-17)
§ 51.18 OBSTRUCTING OR DAMAGING SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, in any manner, to obstruct access to,
hamper with or damage any facility or appurtenance of the village water system.
Any person who damages any water system facility or appurtenance in any manner
shall be responsible to the Water Department for the cost of any and all
replacements or repairs made necessary by such damage. In addition, the person
responsible for any damage to the water system shall be responsible for any and
all damage to other persons resulting from the damage from the water system.
(Prior Code, § 21-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.19 OPERATION OF VALVES AND SHUT-OFF VALVES.
   No person not duly authorized by the Board of Trustees shall operate or open
any valve belonging to the village water system or the shut-off valve of any
service connected to the system. No person not duly authorized by the Board of
Trustees shall operate, open or tamper with any fire hydrant, public or
private, connected to the village water system. Any member of a Fire Department
shall be authorized to operate fire hydrants connected to the village water
system for the purposes of extinguishing a fire.
(Prior Code, § 21-19) Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.20 SUSPENSION OF LAWN WATERING.
   The Board of Trustees shall have the authority to suspend the use lawn
fountains and hoses for sprinkling lawns and gardens when circumstances deem
such suspension necessary.
(Prior Code, § 21-20)
FEES AND COLLECTION
§ 51.35 TURN-ON AND TURN-OFF FEES.
   (A)   There shall be a $750 charge for connecting with the village water
system. There shall be a $750 charge for connecting with the village sewer
system.
   (B)   Additionally, the property owner shall pay all costs associated with
said connections.
(Prior Code, § 21-21)
§ 51.36 DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   Each applicant for water supply shall deposit with the Village Clerk the sum
of $50. Such deposit shall be held by the village in an interest-bearing
account for a period of one year following the commencement of such service.
If, during such one-year period, the charges owing to the village have been
kept currently paid by the user, such sum shall be refunded to the user at the
end of such year. If the user is not entitled to such refund, under the terms
of this section, the deposit shall be held by the village until service is
terminated, and during such period of service the village may draw upon such
deposit for payment of any default in payment. Any sum remaining on deposit at
termination of service shall be refunded to the user, without interest.
(Prior Code, § 21-22)
§ 51.37 MONTHLY WATER AND SEWER CHARGES.
   The following rates and fees are subject to change at the discretion of the
Board of Trustees for the yearly appropriation budget.
Description Amount
Description                        Amount
Residence water monthly            $24.00
Residence sewer monthly            $12.50
Residence sewer per person monthly $1.40
Vacant home rate                   $5.00
Business water monthly             $34.00
Business sewer monthly             $12.50
Business sewer usage rates         $0.005
 
(Prior Code, § 21-23)
§ 51.38 DELINQUENT BILLS.
   (A)   Water bills. All water bills not paid on the due date of the bill
shall be deemed and are hereby declared to be delinquent, in violation of the
requirements of this chapter, and the premises shall be subject to termination
of village water service.
   (B)   Other water charges. Charges for water benefits, services, materials,
equipment or labor for repairs or new installations and the like not paid on
the due date of the bill shall be deemed and are hereby declared delinquent, in
violation of the requirements of this chapter, and the premises served, if any,
shall be subject to termination of village water service.
(Prior Code, § 21-24)
§ 51.39 TERMINATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A person notified of the intention of the Board of Trustees to
terminate village water service shall have ten days to respond by either paying
the amount owed to the village, correcting the violation or requesting a
hearing.
   (B)   If such person requests a hearing, the Chairperson of the Water
Committee shall notify the person of the date, time and place of the hearing.
The termination shall be stayed pending the outcome of the hearing.
   (C)   When a hearing is requested, the Chairperson of the Water Committee
shall act as hearing officer for the Water Department and shall conduct the
hearing. The Chairperson shall reduce the facts to writing and shall make a
determination based on the facts. A copy of the decision shall be provided to
the person requesting the hearing; and, if the decision is adverse to such
person, he or she shall be given ten days from the date of the decision to pay
the amount owed and/or correct the violation before service is terminated. The
decision shall constitute final notice.
   (D)   If no request for a hearing on the merits is made within ten days
after the first notice of intention to terminate service, a final notice shall
be served that service will be terminated on or after a specific date.
   (E)   If the amount owed is not paid and/or violation is not corrected
within ten days after the final notice, service shall be terminated at the
convenience of the Board of Trustees without further notice.
   (F)   For the purpose of this section, notice may be served by registered or
certified mail or by personal service on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 21-25)
§ 51.40 DELINQUENT BILLS WITHOUT WATER SERVICE.
   If a water charge is due from a person who is not a customer of the village
water system, the Chairperson of the Water Committee is authorized and directed
to file a statement of lien claim with the County Recorder of Deeds.
(Prior Code, § 21-26)
§ 51.41 RESTORATION OF TERMINATED SERVICE.
   (A)   When service has been terminated to a property or premises for non-
payment of amounts owed to the Water Department and/or violations of the
provisions of this chapter, service shall not be restored until the amounts due
have been paid in full, or arrangements have been made satisfactory to the
Board of Trustees for their payment, and/or until the violations have been
corrected.
   (B)   In addition to division (A) above, the service restoration fee of
$200, which recovers the cost of the work of shutting the water off and turning
it on, shall be paid before service is restored.
   (C)   After all of the conditions of this section have been satisfied, the
Chairperson of the Water Committee shall order the service to be restored to
the property or premises at once.
(Prior Code, § 21-27)
§ 51.42 TREASURER TO ISSUE BILLS AND COLLECT AMOUNTS DUE.
   It shall be the duty of the Village Treasurer to issue all bills for water
use, fees, charges and deposits owed to the Department and to collect such
amounts when they become due.
(Prior Code, § 21-28)
§ 51.43 LATE PAYMENT PENALTY.
   When any bill is not paid within the time allowed by this chapter, a penalty
charge of 10% shall be added to the total amount due.
(Prior Code, § 21-29)
§ 51.44 LIEN FOR RATES AND CHARGES.
   The village shall have a continuing lien upon the premises and real estate
upon or for which water is used or supplied for all water rates, charges or
benefits accruing by reason of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 21-30)
CHAPTER 52: CROSS-CONNECTIONS
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   General requirements
   
52.03   Right of inspection
   
52.04   Provision of information
   
52.05   Termination of service
   
52.06   Corrections and protective devices
   
52.07   Piping identification
   
52.08   Private water storage tanks
   
52.09   Liability to village
   
52.10   Liability to water customers
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BACKFLOW. Water of questionable quality, wastes or other contaminants
entering a public water supply system due to a reversal of flow.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between a potable
water supply and any other source of water of unknown or questionable quality
or of steam, gases, chemicals or mixtures whereby backflow may occur to the
potable water supply.
   SECONDARY WATER SUPPLY. A water supply system maintained in addition to a
public water supply, including, but not limited to, water systems from ground
or surface sources not meeting the requirements of Act No. 98 of the Public
Acts of 1913, as amended, being §§ 325.201 through 325.214 of the Compiled Laws
of 1948, or water from a public water supply which in any way has been treated,
processed or exposed to any possible contaminant or stored in other than an
approved storage facility.
(Prior Code, § 22-1)
§ 52.02 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The village water supply system, including its service connections and
all of their downstream plumbing, shall be designed, constructed and maintained
to prevent contamination of the potable water supply by nonpotable liquids,
solids or gases entering it through cross-connections.
   (B)   Cross-connections between the village public water supply system and
other water supplies or plumbing systems or equipment containing water or other
substances of unknown or questionable quality are prohibited.
   (C)   Interconnections between the village public water supply system and
other public water supply systems shall only be made with the approval of the
Board of Trustees.
   (D)   All plumbing systems connected to or supplied by the village public
water supply system shall be installed and maintained in full compliance with
the State Plumbing Code.
(Prior Code, § 22-2) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 RIGHT OF INSPECTION.
   The Chairperson of the Water Committee, or any agent authorized by the
Chairperson, shall have the right of entry, during reasonable hours, into any
building or premises served by the village water system for the purpose of
inspecting the plumbing therein. With respect to single-family dwellings,
however, consent to such inspection shall first be obtained from persons of
suitable age and discretion in control thereof.
(Prior Code, § 22-3)
§ 52.04 PROVISION OF INFORMATION.
   The Chairperson of the Water Committee, or any agent authorized by the
Chairperson, may require the owner or occupant of any building or premises
served by the village water system to provide information concerning the
plumbing in such places or concerning uses of such places which might
constitute a hazard to the village water system.
(Prior Code, § 22-4)
§ 52.05 TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   The failure or refusal of a customer to correct plumbing defects, or to
otherwise comply with the provisions of this chapter after reasonable notice,
shall constitute a violation of the requirements of this chapter, and the
premises concerned shall be subject to termination of village water service. In
addition, when there has been actual contamination of the village water supply
or when, in the opinion of the Chairperson of the Water Committee, there is
imminent danger of such contamination, village water service to the premises
shall be terminated immediately and without prior notice.
(Prior Code, § 22-5)
§ 52.06 CORRECTIONS AND PROTECTIVE DEVICES.
   Any user of village water shall first obtain written approval from the Board
of Trustees before using or installing any proposed corrective or protective
device.
(Prior Code, § 22-6)
§ 52.07 PIPING IDENTIFICATION.
   When a secondary water source is used in addition to the village water
supply, exposed village water and secondary water piping shall be identified by
distinguishing colors or tags and so maintained that each pipe may be traced
readily in its entirety.
(Prior Code, § 22-7)
§ 52.08 PRIVATE WATER STORAGE TANKS.
   A private water storage tank supplied from the village water supply system
shall be deemed a secondary water supply unless it is designed and approved for
potable water usage.
(Prior Code, § 22-8)
§ 52.09 LIABILITY TO VILLAGE.
   If contamination of the village water supply system occurs through an
unlawful cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained or repaired
cross-connection control device, or a device which has been by passed, the
owner of the building or premises from which such contamination originated
shall be liable to the village for the cost of decontaminating the village
water supply.
(Prior Code, § 22-9) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.10 LIABILITY TO WATER CUSTOMERS.
   If contamination of the village water supply system occurs as in §
52.09, the owner of the building or premises from which such contamination
originated shall be liable to the customers of the village water system for any
damages suffered or losses incurred by such customers.
(Prior Code, § 22-10)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   The owner and/or the authorized agent of the owner responsible for the
maintenance of the plumbing system in a building or premises who knowingly
permits a violation of this chapter to exist after notice of the same, shall be
required to pay a fine of no less than $50 nor more than $500 for each
violation. Each day of failure to comply with the requirements of this chapter
shall constitute a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 22-11)
CHAPTER 53: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Definitions
Public Sewers Required
   
53.015   Unlawful deposits
   
53.016   Unlawful discharge
   
53.017   Privy maintenance
   
53.018   Connection to sewage system required
Private Sewage Disposal
   
53.030   Connection to private disposal systems
   
53.031   Permit required
   
53.032   Inspection of work
   
53.033   Compliance with state regulations
   
53.034   Abandonment of private system
   
53.035   Sanitary maintenance
   
53.036   Additional requirements
   
53.037   Connection to public system
Building Sewers and Connections
   
53.050   Unauthorized connections
   
53.051   Unlawful disposal
   
53.052   Classes of permits
   
53.053   Conditions of issuance
   
53.054   Costs borne by owners
   
53.055   Separate sewer for each building
   
53.056   Old building sewers
   
53.057   Construction specifications
   
53.058   Elevation
   
53.059   Roof downspouts
   
53.060   Connection to public sewer
   
53.061   Inspection
   
53.062   Excavations
Use of the Public Sewers
   
53.075   Street excavations
   
53.076   Stormwater discharge
   
53.077   Prohibited discharge
   
53.078   Industrial discharge
   
53.079   Harmful wastes
   
53.080   Declaration of nuisance
   
53.081   Interceptors
   
53.082   Preliminary treatment facilities
   
53.083   Control manhole
   
53.084   Tests and analysis of water
   
53.085   Special agreements
   
53.086   Tampering with sewage works
Administration
   
53.100   Entry of premises
   
53.101   Indemnity
   
53.102   Easements
 
   
53.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (A)   Federal government.
      ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency.
      FEDERAL ACT. The federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251
et seq.) as amended by the federal Water Pollution Control Act of Amendments of
1972 (Pub. Law No. 92-500 and Pub. Law No. 93-243).
      FEDERAL GRANT. The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by Title II, Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works of the Act, and implementing regulations.
   (B)   State government.
      DIRECTOR. The Director of the State Environmental Protection Agency.
      STATE ACT. The State Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970.
      STATE GRANT. The state participation in the financing of the construction
of treatment works as provided for by the State Anti-Pollution Bond Act and for
making such grants as filed with the Secretary of State of Illinois.
   (C)   Local government.
      APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Superintendent of Sewers of the Village of
Davis, Illinois.
      ORDINANCE. This chapter.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Davis, Illinois.
   (D)   Other entities.
      PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   (E)   Permits.
      NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by
the Administrator, or, where appropriated by the Director, after enactment of
the federal Water Pollution Control Amendments of 1972, to regulate the
discharge of pollutants pursuant to § 402 of the Act.
   (F)   Word usage.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   (G)   Wastewater and its characteristics.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
      EFFLUENT CRITERIA. As defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
      FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. Wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
      GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of
produce.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged,
permitted to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or
business establishment or process or from the development, recovery or
processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
      MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industrial user of the publicly owned
treatment works that: has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work
day; has a flow greater than 10% of the flow carried by the municipal system
receiving the waste; has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts, as
defined in standards issued under § 307(a) of the Act; or is found by the
permit issuance authority, in connection with the issuance of the NPDES permit
to the publicly owned treatment works receiving the waste, to have significant
impact, either singly or in combination with other contributing industries, on
that treatment works or upon the quality of effluent from that treatment works.
      MILLIGRAMS PER LITER. A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 grams of the constituent in 1,000 per million, to
which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and
wastewater analysis.
      pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in Standard Methods.
      POPULATION EQUIVALENT. A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial
or other waste on a treatment works or stream. One POPULATION EQUIVALENT is
              gallons of sewage per day, containing           pounds of BOD and
       pounds of suspended solids.
      PPM. Parts per million by weight.
      PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle grater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
      SEWAGE. A term used interchangeably with WASTEWATER.
      SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
      STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in
the most recent edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater published jointly by the America Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or industrial waste, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of SUSPENDED SOLIDS
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
      UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
      WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of
course, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with any groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be present.
      WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. As defined in the water pollution regulations of
the state.
   (H)   Sewer types and appurtenances.
      BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of
the building wall.
      BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal.
      COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
      EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
      PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
village. It shall also include sewers within or outside the village boundaries
that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the village
sanitary (or combined sewer system), even though those sewers may not have been
constructed with village funds.
      SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes, or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface and groundwaters or
unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
      SEWER. A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
      SEWERAGE. The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
      STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries storm, surface and groundwater drainage
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
      STORMWATER RUNOFF. The portion of the precipitation that is drained into
the sewers.
   (I)   Treatment.
      PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewaters from sources before
introduction into the wastewater treatment works.
      WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required
to collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
      WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or POLLUTION CONTROL
PLANT.
   (J)   User types.
      CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure located on a site from which industrial
wastes are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop.
The purpose of a CONTROL MANHOLE is to provide access for the village
representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
      INDUSTRIAL USER.
         (a)   Any nongovernmental user of publicly owned treatment works
identified in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, Office of
Management and Budget, as amended and supplemented, under the following
divisions:
            1.   Division A: Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing;
            2.   Division B: Mining;
            3.   Division D: Manufacturing;
            4.   Division E: Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary Services; and
            5.   Division I: Services.
         (b)   A user in the Divisions listed may be excluded if it is
determined by the approving authority that it will introduce primarily
segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      RESIDENTIAL OR COMMERCIAL OR NON-INDUSTRIAL USER. Any user of the
treatment works not classified as an industrial user or excluded as an
industrial user as provided for in this section.
      USER CLASS. The type of user either residential or commercial (non-
industrial) or industrial, as defined herein.
   (K)   Types of charges.
      BASIC USER CHARGE. A basic assessment levied on all users of the public
sewer system.
      DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. The amount to be paid each billing period for
payment of interest, principal and coverage of (loan, bond and the like)
outstanding and shall be computed by dividing the annual debt service by the
number of users connected to the wastewater facilities.
      REPLACEMENT.
         (a)   Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories
or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the treatment
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and contracted.
         (b)   The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes REPLACEMENT.
      SEWERAGE FUND. The principal accounting designation for all revenues
received in the operation of the sewerage system.
      SURCHARGE. The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than the concentration values established in §§
54.21 through
54.28.
      USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which the collection system and/
or treatment works will be operated and shall be         years from the date of
start-up of any wastewater facilities constructed with a state grant.
      USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation and maintenance.
      WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge per quarter or month levied on all
users of the wastewater facilities. The service charge shall be computed as
outlined in §
54.20 and shall consist of the total or the basic user charge, the debt service
charge and a surcharge, if applicable.
(Prior Code, § 23-1)
PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED
§ 53.015 UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
village or in any area under the jurisdiction of said village, any human or
animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Prior Code, § 23-2) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.016 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the village,
or in any area under the jurisdiction of said village, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 23-3) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.017 PRIVY MAINTENANCE.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Prior Code, § 23-4) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.018 CONNECTION TO SEWAGE SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the village and
abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or
may in the future be located any public sanitary (or combined) sewer of the
village, is hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, within 90
days after date of official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is
within 100 feet (30.5 meters) of the property line.
(Prior Code, § 23-5)
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 53.030 CONNECTION TO PRIVATE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   Where a public sanitary (or combined) sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
53.018, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 23-6)
§ 53.031 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the approving
authority.
   (B)   The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by
the village, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications
and other information as are deemed necessary by the approving authority. A
permit and inspection fee of $25 shall be paid to the village at the time the
application is filed.
(Prior Code, § 23-7)
§ 53.032 INSPECTION OF WORK.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the approving
authority. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
approving authority when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 48 hours
of the receipt of written notice by the approving authority.
(Prior Code, § 23-8)
§ 53.033 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE REGULATIONS.
   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Private Sewage
Disposal Licensing Act and Code and with the State Environmental Protection
Agency. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than 15,000 square feet (1395 square meters). No septic tank or cesspool
shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 23-9) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.034 ABANDONMENT OF PRIVATE SYSTEM.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
53.018, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this subchapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private
sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material.
(Prior Code, § 23-10)
§ 53.035 SANITARY MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to the village.
(Prior Code, § 23-11)
§ 53.036 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the village.
(Prior Code, § 23-12)
§ 53.037 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SYSTEM.
   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be connected
to said sewer within 60 days, and the private sewage disposal system shall be
cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
(Prior Code, § 23-13)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 53.050 UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTIONS.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the approving authority.
(Prior Code, § 23-14) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.051 UNLAWFUL DISPOSAL.
   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except those
discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to the Act
and more stringent state and local standards.
(Prior Code, § 23-15) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.052 CLASSES OF PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the village.
   (B)   (1)   The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the
approving authority.
      (2)   A permit and inspection fee of $25 for a residential or commercial
building sewer permit shall be paid to the village at the time the application
is filed. The industry, as a condition of permit authorization, must provide
information describing its wastewater constituents, characteristics and type of
activity.
(Prior Code, § 23-16)
§ 53.053 CONDITIONS OF ISSUANCE.
   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection shall
only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load.
(Prior Code, § 23-17)
§ 53.054 COSTS BORNE BY OWNERS.
   (A)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
   (B)   The owner shall indemnify the village from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 23-18)
§ 53.055 SEPARATE SEWER FOR EACH BUILDING.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except that where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
real building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 23-19)
§ 53.056 OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the approving authority, to meet all
requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 23-20)
§ 53.057 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
village.
   (B)   In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution Control Federation
Manual of Practice No. 9 and Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 23-21)
§ 53.058 ELEVATION.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means which is approved in
accordance with this subchapter and discharged to the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 23-22)
§ 53.059 ROOF DOWNSPOUTS.
   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 23-23) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.060 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   (A)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code, or other
applicable rules and regulations of the village, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials, Water
Pollution Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9 and Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois.
   (B)   All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
approving authority before installation.
(Prior Code, § 23-24)
§ 53.061 INSPECTION.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the approving
authority when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the
public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
approving authority or his or her representative.
(Prior Code, § 23-25)
§ 53.062 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the village.
(Prior Code, § 23-26)
USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 53.075 STREET EXCAVATIONS.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 23-27) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.076 STORMWATER DISCHARGE.
   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to
a natural outlet approved by the approving authority. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the approving
authority, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 23-28)
§ 53.077 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
    (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having pH lower than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works; or
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshing, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like, either
whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(Prior Code, § 23-29) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.078 INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGE.
   No industrial user may discharge sewage into any public sewer until the
village has adopted an industrial cost recovery system which:
   (A)   Meets the requirements of § 204(b)(1)(8) of the federal Water
Pollution Control Act, amendments of 1972, and applicable federal regulations;
and
   (B)   Has been approved by the Agency in accordance with the conditions of
any grant made to the village by the United States Environmental Protection
Agency or by the state for the construction of any part of the sewer system or
sewage treatment works of the village.
(Prior Code, § 23-30) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.079 HARMFUL WASTES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the
following described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears
likely in the opinion of the approving authority that such wastes can harm
either the sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment; have an adverse
effect on the receiving stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public
property or constitute a nuisance.
      (2)   In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the approving authority will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant and maximum limit established by
regulatory agencies.
   (B)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°F (0°
and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the approving authority;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the approving authority for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the approving authority as necessary after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the approving authority in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as Hg
at any time except as permitted by the approving authority in compliance with
applicable state and federal regulations;
      (10)   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 mg/l at any time except as
permitted by the approving authority in compliance with applicable state and
federal regulations;
      (11)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
slugs, as defined herein.
 
      (12)   Waters or waste containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
(Prior Code, § 23-31) Penalty, see §
53.999
Cross-reference:
   Utility cross-connections, see §§
52.01 through
52.10
§ 53.080 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
53.079 and/or which are in violation of the standards for pretreatment provided
in Chapter 1, EPA Rules and Regulations, subchapter D, Water Programs Part 128,
Pretreatment Standards, Federal Register Volume 38, No. 215, Thursday, November
8, 1973, and any amendments thereto, and which in the judgment of the approving
authority may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes,
equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the approving authority may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of §
53.084.
   (B)   If the approving authority permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the approving authority, and subject to
the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(Prior Code, § 23-32)
§ 53.081 INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the approving authority they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or
other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required
for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a
type and capacity approved by the approving authority and shall be located as
to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Prior Code, § 23-33)
§ 53.082 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at his or her expense.
(Prior Code, § 23-34)
§ 53.083 CONTROL MANHOLE.
   (A)   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole, and,
when required by the approving authority, the owner of any property serviced by
a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required shall be accessibly and safely located, and
shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the approving
authority.
   (B)   The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense and
shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Prior Code, § 23-35)
§ 53.084 TESTS AND ANALYSIS OF WATER.
   (A)   (1)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this subchapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the village or regulatory agencies
having jurisdiction over the discharge.
      (2)   The number, type and frequency of laboratory analyses to be
performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the village, but not less than
once per year the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents
of the wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state
and local standards are being met. The owner shall report the results of
measurements and laboratory analysis to the village at such times and in such
manner as prescribed by the village. The owner shall bear the expense of all
measurements, analysis and reporting required by the village. At such times as
deemed necessary, the village reserves the right to take measurements and
samples for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
   (B)   All measurements, tests and analysis of the characteristics of water
and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The particular analysis
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analysis are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are determined form periodic
grab samples.
(Prior Code, § 23-36)
§ 53.085 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the village and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the village for treatment, subject to payment therefor, in
accordance with §
54.01, by the industrial concern, provided such payments are in accordance with
federal and state guidelines for user charge system and industrial cost
recovery system.
(Prior Code, § 23-37)
§ 53.086 TAMPERING WITH SEWAGE WORKS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment
which is a part of the sewage works.
   (B)   Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate
arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 23-38) Penalty, see §
53.999
ADMINISTRATION
§ 53.100 ENTRY OF PREMISES.
   The approving authority and other duly authorized employees of the village,
the State Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
approving authority or his or her representative shall have no authority to
inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining,
ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on
the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or facilities for
waste treatment.
(Prior Code, § 23-39)
§ 53.101 INDEMNITY.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
53.100, the approving authority or duly authorized employees of the village,
the State Environmental Protection Agency and U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
village employees, and the village shall indemnify the company against loss or
damage to its property by village employees and against liability claims and
demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and
growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused
by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required
in §
53.083.
(Prior Code, § 23-40)
§ 53.102 EASEMENTS.
   The approving authority and other duly authorized employees of the village
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the village holds a duly negotiated easement,
for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 23-41)
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except
§§
53.075 through
53.086, shall be served by the village with written notice stating the nature
of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations. The village may revoke any
permit for sewage disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 23-42)
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (A) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on
conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $75 for each
violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed
a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 23-43)
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the village by reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 23-44)
CHAPTER 54: WASTEWATER
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Definitions
Wastewater Service Charges
   
54.15   Basis for charges
   
54.16   Measurement of flow
   
54.17   Service charges
   
54.18   Surcharge rate
   
54.19   Computation of surcharge
   
54.20   Industrial cost recovery
   
54.21   Bills
   
54.22   Delinquent bills
   
54.23   Lien; notice of delinquency
   
54.24   Foreclosure of lien
   
54.25   Revenues
   
54.26   Accounts
   
54.27   Notice of rates
   
54.28   Access to records
 
   
54.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (A)   Federal government.
      ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency.
      FEDERAL ACT. The federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251
et seq.) as amended by the federal Water Pollution Control Act of Amendments of
1972 (Pub. Law No. 92-500 and Pub. Law No. 93-243).
      FEDERAL GRANT. The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by Title II, Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works of the Act, and implementing regulations.
   (B)   State government.
      DIRECTOR. The Director of the State Environmental Protection Agency.
      STATE ACT. The State Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970.
      STATE GRANT. The state participation in the financing of the construction
of treatment works as provided for by the State Anti-Pollution Bond Act and for
making such grants as filed with the Secretary of State of the State of
Illinois.
   (C)   Local government.
      APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Superintendent of Sewers of the Village of
Davis, Illinois.
      ORDINANCE. This chapter.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Davis, Illinois.
   (D)   Other entities.
      PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   (E)   Permits.
      NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by
the Administrator, or, where appropriated by the Director, after enactment of
the federal Water Pollution Control Amendments of 1972, to regulate the
discharge of pollutants pursuant to § 402 of the Act.
   (F)   Word usage.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   (G)   Wastewater and its characteristics.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
      EFFLUENT CRITERIA. As defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
      FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. Wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
      GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of
produce.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged,
permitted to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or
business establishment or process or from the development, recovery or
processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
      MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industrial user of the publicly owned
treatment works that: has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work
day; has a flow greater than 10% of the flow carried by the municipal system
receiving the waste; has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts, as
defined in standards issued under § 307(a) of the Act; or is found by the
permit issuance authority, in connection with the issuance of the NPDES permit
to the publicly owned treatment works receiving the waste, to have significant
impact, either singly or in combination with other contributing industries, on
that treatment works or upon the quality of effluent from that treatment works.
      MILLIGRAMS PER LITER. A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 grams of the constituent in 1,000 per million, to
which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and
wastewater analysis.
      pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in Standard Methods.
      POPULATION EQUIVALENT. A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial
or other waste on a treatment works or stream. One POPULATION EQUIVALENT is
              gallons of sewage per day, containing           pounds of BOD and
     pounds of suspended solids.
      PPM. Parts per million by weight.
      PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle grater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
      SEWAGE. A term used interchangeably with WASTEWATER.
      SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
      STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in
the most recent edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater published jointly by the America Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or industrial waste, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of SUSPENDED SOLIDS
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
      UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
      WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of
course, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with any groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be present.
      WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. As defined in the water pollution regulations of
the state.
   (H)   Sewer types and appurtenances.
      BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of
the building wall.
      BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal.
      COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
      EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
      PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
village. It shall also include sewers within or outside the village boundaries
that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the village
sanitary (or combined sewer system), even though those sewers may not have been
constructed with village funds.
      SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes, or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface and groundwaters or
unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
      SEWER. A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
      SEWERAGE. The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
      STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries storm, surface and groundwater drainage
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
      STORMWATER RUNOFF. The portion of the precipitation that is drained into
the sewers.
   (I)   Treatment.
      PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewaters from sources before
introduction into the wastewater treatment works.
      WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required
to collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
      WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or POLLUTION CONTROL
PLANT.
   (J)   User types.
      CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure located on a site from which industrial
wastes are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop.
The purpose of a CONTROL MANHOLE is to provide access for the village
representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
      INDUSTRIAL USER.
         (a)   Any nongovernmental user of publicly owned treatment works
identified in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, Office of
Management and Budget, as amended and supplemented, under the following
divisions:
            1.   Division A: Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing;
            2.   Division B: Mining;
            3.   Division D: Manufacturing;
            4.   Division E: Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary Services; and
            5.   Division I: Services.
         (b)   A user in the Divisions listed may be excluded if it is
determined by the approving authority that it will introduce primarily
segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      RESIDENTIAL OR COMMERCIAL OR NON-INDUSTRIAL USER. Any user of the
treatment works not classified as an industrial user or excluded as an
industrial user as provided for in this section.
      USER CLASS. The type of user either residential or commercial (non-
industrial) or industrial, as defined herein.
   (K)   Types of charges.
      BASIC USER CHARGE. A basic assessment levied on all users of the public
sewer system.
      DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. The amount to be paid each billing period for
payment of interest, principal and coverage of (loan, bond and the like)
outstanding and shall be computed by dividing the annual debt service by the
number of users connected to the wastewater facilities.
      REPLACEMENT.
      (1)   Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories or
appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the treatment
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and contracted.
      (2)   The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes REPLACEMENT.
      SEWERAGE FUND. The principal accounting designation for all revenues
received in the operation of the sewerage system.
      SURCHARGE. The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than the concentration values established in §§
54.21 through
54.28.
      USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which the collection system and/
or treatment works will be operated and shall be         years from the date of
start-up of any wastewater facilities constructed with a state grant.
      USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation and maintenance.
      WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge per quarter or month levied on all
users of the wastewater facilities. The service charge shall be computed as
outlined in §
54.20 and shall consist of the total or the basic user charge, the debt service
charge and a surcharge, if applicable.
(Prior Code, § 24-1)
WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES
§ 54.15 BASIS FOR CHARGES.
   (A)   The wastewater service charge for the use of and for service supplied
by the wastewater facilities of the village shall consist of a basic user
charge for operation and maintenance plus replacement, and a surcharge, if
applicable.
   (B)   The basic user charge shall be based on the following normal
concentration:
      (1)   Five-day, 20°C biochemical oxygen demand of 250 mg/l; and
      (2)   A suspended solids content of 300 mg/l.
   (C)   It shall consist of operation and maintenance costs plus replacement
and shall be computed as follows:
      (1)   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities, including a replacement fund, for the next
fiscal year for all work categories;
      (2)   Proportion the estimated cost to wastewater facility categories by
volume, suspended solids and BOD;
      (3)   Estimate wastewater volume, pounds of suspended solids and pounds
of BOD to be treated;
       (4)   Compute unit cost for volume ($      per 1,000 gallons) for
suspended solids ($       per pound) and for BOD ($      per pound); and
      (5)   Compute cost per 1,000 gallons for volume, suspended solids and BOD
at normal sewage strength. Add these costs to determine the charge for
operation and maintenance including replacement.
   (D)   A surcharge will be levied to all users whose wastes exceed the normal
concentrations for BOD (250 mg/l) and suspended solids (300 mg/l). The
surcharge will be based on water usage as recorded by water meters and/or
sewage meters for all wastes which exceed the 250 mg/l and 300 mg/
l concentrations for BOD and suspended solids respectively. The wastewater
service charge shall be reviewed annually by certified public accountants to
the village in their annual audit report. It shall be revised periodically to
reflect the change in debt service or a change in operation and maintenance
including replacement costs.
(Prior Code, § 24-2)
§ 54.16 MEASUREMENT OF FLOW.
   (A)   Residential volume shall be based on 80 gallons per capita per day.
   (B)   (1)   Nonresidential use and/or all users whose wastes exceed normal
concentrations for BOD and suspended solids shall be based on metered water
consumption read to the lowest even increment of 100 gallons.
      (2)   If the person discharging waste into the public sewers procures any
part or all of his or her water from sources other than the public water works
system, all or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person
shall install and maintain, at his or her expense, water meters of a type
approved by the Superintendent for the purpose of determining the volume of
water obtained from these other sources.
   (C)   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required
by the Superintendent if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the
metered water consumption records. Metering devices for determining the volume
of waste shall be installed, owned and maintained by the person. Following
approval and installation, such meters may not be removed without the consent
of the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 24-3)
§ 54.17 SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   The charge for combined sewage treatment and sewer service for the
different properties in the village shall be in accordance with the schedule
hereinafter set forth. Such charge shall be paid in monthly installments on or
before the tenth day of each month, unless otherwise provided by contract. The
schedule of rates is as follows.
      (1)   Dwelling units. The following rates and fees are subject to change
at the discretion of the Board of Trustees for the yearly appropriation budget.
         (a)   For each residential unit:
 
Residential Unit Monthly Charges
1-member family  $11.40
2-member family  $12.80
3-member family  $14.20
4-member family  $15.60
5-member family  $17
6-member family  $18.40
 
         (b)   For residential dwelling units with families in excess of six
members, the monthly charge shall increase over $18.40 at the rate of $1.40 for
each person in excess of six.
      (2)   Non-dwelling. For each commercial, institutional, business or other
nonresidential unit served, the charge shall be $10 monthly, plus $0.06 cents
for each 100 gallons of water used, as shown by properly installed water
meters.
      (3)   Combined dwelling and non-dwelling. For each served unit described
in division (A)(2) above in which one or more persons reside the charge shall
be $20 monthly, plus $0.06 cents for each 100 gallons of water used, as shown
by properly installed water meters.
   (B)   Each apartment or separate residential quarter in a multiple dwelling
building shall be considered a residential unit.
   (C)   Real estate owners, as well as tenants, shall be liable for service
charges and, in the discretion of the village, may be billed monthly or
periodically.
   (D)   All water meters, as herein required, shall be furnished by, installed
and repaired by and remain the sole property of, the village. Any person, other
than a person duly authorized by the village, who attempts to repair, alter,
tamper with or circumvent any such meter shall be fully liable for damages and
shall be liable to criminal prosecution and fine pursuant to ordinance and
statute.
(Prior Code, § 24-4)
§ 54.18 SURCHARGE RATE.
   The following rates and fees are subject to change at the discretion of the
Board of Trustees for the yearly appropriation budget. The rates of surcharge
for BODS and suspended solids shall be as follows:
   (A)   For biochemical-oxygen demand (BOD): $0.09 per pound.
   (B)   For suspended solids (SS): $10.06 per pound.
(Prior Code, § 24-5)
§ 54.19 COMPUTATION OF SURCHARGE.
   (A)   The surcharge per person shall be computed by the following formula.
 
S = V (0.00834) [A (BOD-250) + B (SS-300)]
A   Unit charge per lb. For BODs per lb. (Sec. 4)
B   Unit charge per lb of ss, mg/l
BOD 5-day biochemical oxygen demand, mg/l
S   Mount of surcharge ($)
V   Wastewater volume in thousand gallons per billing period 0.00834 = unit
    weight of water x 10-6 per thousand gallons
 
   (B)   The concentration of wastes used for computing surcharges shall be
established by waste sampling. Waste sampling shall be performed as often as
may be deemed necessary by the Superintendent and shall be binding as a basis
for surcharges. Sampling stations shall be provided and maintained by the
person.
(Prior Code, § 24-6)
§ 54.20 INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY.
   No industrial user may discharge sewage into any public sewer until the
village has adopted an industrial cost recovery system which:
   (A)   Meets the requirements of § 204(b)(1)(B) of the federal Water
Pollution Control Act amendments of 1972 (citation) and applicable federal
regulations; and
   (B)   Has been approved by the Agency in accordance with the condition of
any grant made to the village by the United States Environmental Protection
Agency or by the state for the construction of any part of the wastewater
system or sewage treatment works of the village.
(Prior Code, § 24-7)
§ 54.21 BILLS.
   Said rates or charges for service shall be payable monthly or quarterly
depending on the classification of service for which bills are rendered. The
owner of the premises, the occupant thereof and the user of the service shall
be jointly and severally liable to pay for the service to such premises, and
the service is furnished to the premises by the village only upon the condition
that the owner of the premises, occupant and user of the services are jointly
and severally liable therefor to the village. Bills for sewer service shall be
sent out by the Village Treasurer on the first day of the month or quarter
succeeding the period for which the service is billed. All sewer bills are due
and payable 30 days after being sent out. A penalty of 10% shall be added to
all bills not paid by the fifteenth day after they have been rendered.
(Prior Code, § 24-8)
§ 54.22 DELINQUENT BILLS.
   If the charges for such services are not paid within 60 days or 30 days
hereinabove mentioned after the rendition of the bill for such services, such
services shall be discontinued without further notice and shall not be
reinstated until all claims are settled.
(Prior Code, § 24-9)
§ 54.23 LIEN; NOTICE OF DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   Whenever a bill for sewer service remains unpaid for 30 days for
monthly service after it has been rendered, the Village Treasurer shall file
with the County Recorder of Deeds a statement of lien claim. This statement
shall contain the legal description of the premises served, the amount of the
unpaid bill and a notice that the village claims a lien for this amount as well
as for all charges subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
   (B)   If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises, and
the Village Treasurer has notice of this, notice shall be mailed to the owner
of the premises if his or her address be known to the Treasurer, whenever such
bill remains unpaid for the period of 45 days for a monthly bill or 105 days
for a quarterly bill after it has been rendered.
   (C)   The failure of the Village Treasurer to record such lien or to mail
such notice shall not affect the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills
as mentioned in the foregoing section.
(Prior Code, § 24-10)
§ 54.24 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be sold for non-payment
of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay the charges,
after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory liens.
Such foreclosure shall be by bill-in-equity in the name of the village. The
Village Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute such
proceedings in the name of the village in any court having jurisdiction over
such matters against any property for which the bill has remained unpaid 45
days in the case of a monthly bill or 105 days in the case of a quarterly bill
after it has been rendered.
(Prior Code, § 24-11)
§ 54.25 REVENUES.
   (A)   All revenues and moneys derived from the operation of the sewerage
system shall be deposited in the sewerage account of the Sewerage Fund. All
such revenues and moneys shall be held by the Village Treasurer separate and
apart from his or her private funds and separate and apart from all other funds
of the village, and all of said sum, without deductions whenever, shall be
delivered to the Village Treasurer not more than ten days after receipt of the
same, or at such more frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed
by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Village Treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the
sewerage system and all other funds and moneys incident to the operation of
such system, as the same may be delivered to him or her, and deposit the same
in the account of the fund designated as the Sewerage Fund of the village. Said
Treasurer shall administer such fund in every respect in the manner provided by
statute of the Revised Cities and Villages Act, effective January, 1942.
(Prior Code, § 24-12)
§ 54.26 ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and
shall keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the sewerage system, and,
at regular annual intervals, he or she shall cause to be made an audit by an
independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the sewerage system.
   (B)   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the wastewater
facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that sewer service
charges under the waste cost recovery system and capital amounts required to be
recovered under the industrial cost recovery system do in fact meet these
regulations. In this regard, the financial information to be shown in the audit
report shall include the following:
      (1)   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant
for the current fiscal year;
      (2)   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed;
      (3)   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year;
      (4)   Number of users connected to the system;
      (5)   Number of non-metered users; and
      (6)   A list of users discharging non-domestic wastes (industrial users
and volume of waste discharged.
(Prior Code, § 24-13)
§ 54.27 NOTICE OF RATES.
   A copy of this subchapter properly certified by the Village Treasurer, shall
be filed in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds and shall be deemed
notice to all owners of real estate of the charges of the sewerage system of
said village on their properties.
(Prior Code, § 24-14)
§ 54.28 ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   The State Environmental Protection Agency or its authorized representative
shall have access to any books, documents, papers and records of the village
which are applicable to the village system of user charges or industrial cost
recovery for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts and
transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of the special and
general conditions to any state grant.
(Prior Code, § 24-16)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $250 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 24-15)
CHAPTER 55: RENEWABLE ENERGY
Section
Solar Energy
   
55.01   Scope and purpose
   
55.02   Definitions
   
55.03   Permitted accessory use
   
55.04   Principal uses
   
55.05   Restrictions
SOLAR ENERGY
§ 55.01 SCOPE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Scope. This subchapter applies to all solar energy installations
within the village.
   (B)   Purpose. The village has adopted this subchapter for the following
purposes:
      (1)   To meet the goals of the comprehensive plan and preserve the
health, safety and welfare of the community’s citizens by promoting the safe,
effective and efficient use of solar energy systems installed to reduce the on-
site consumption of fossil fuels or utility-supplied electric energy; and
      (2)   The following solar energy standards specifically implement the
following goals from the comprehensive plan:
         (a)   Goal: encourage the use of local renewable energy resources,
including appropriate applications for wind, solar and biomass energy;
         (b)   Goal: promote sustainable building design and management
practices in residential, commercial and industrial buildings to serve the
needs of current and future generations;
         (c)   Goal: assist local businesses to lower financial and regulatory
risks and improve their economic, community and environmental sustainability;
and
         (d)   Goal: efficiently invest in and manage public infrastructure
systems to support development and growth.
(Ord. 2021-3-1, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 55.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING-INTEGRATED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS. A solar energy system that is an
integral part of a principal or accessory building, rather than a separate
mechanical device, replacing or substituting for an architectural or structural
component of the building. BUILDING-INTEGRATED SYSTEMS include, but are not
limited to, photovoltaic or hot water solar energy systems that are contained
within roofing materials, windows, skylights and awnings.
   GRID-INTERTIE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A photovoltaic solar energy system that
is connected to an electric circuit served by an electric utility company.
   GROUND-MOUNT. A solar energy system mounted on a rack or pole that rests or
is attached to the ground. GROUND-MOUNT systems can be either accessory or
principal uses.
   OFF-GRID SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A photovoltaic solar energy system in which
the circuits energized by the solar energy system are not electrically
connected in any way to electric circuits that are served by an electric
utility company.
   PASSIVE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy system that captures solar light
or heat without transforming it to another form of energy or transferring the
energy via a heat exchanger.
   PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM. A solar energy system that converts solar energy
directly into electricity.
   RENEWABLE ENERGY EASEMENT, SOLAR ENERGY EASEMENT. An easement that limits
the height or location, or both, of permissible development on the burdened
land in terms of a structure or vegetation, or both, for the purpose of
providing access for the benefited land to wind or sunlight passing over the
burdened land.
   RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy or wind energy system. RENEWABLE
ENERGY SYSTEMS do not include passive systems that serve a dual function, such
as a greenhouse or window.
   ROOF-MOUNT. A solar energy system mounted on a rack that is fastened to or
ballasted on a building roof. ROOF-MOUNT systems are accessory to the principal
use.
   ROOF PITCH. The final exterior slope of a building roof calculated by the
rise over the run, typically, but not exclusively, expressed in twelfths, such
as 3/12, 9/12, 12/12.
   SOLAR ACCESS. Unobstructed access to direct sunlight on a lot or building
through the entire year, including access across adjacent parcel air rights,
for the purpose of capturing direct sunlight to operate a solar energy system.
   SOLAR COLLECTOR. A device, structure or a part of a device or structure for
which the primary purpose is to transform solar radiant energy into thermal,
mechanical, chemical or electrical energy.
   SOLAR COLLECTOR SURFACE. Any part of a solar collector that absorbs solar
energy for use in the collector’s energy transformation process. COLLECTOR
SURFACE does not include frames, supports and mounting hardware.
   SOLAR DAYLIGHTING. A device specifically designed to capture and redirect
the visible portion of the solar spectrum, while controlling the infrared
portion, for use in illuminating interior building spaces in lieu of artificial
lighting.
   SOLAR ENERGY. Radiant energy received from the sun that can be collected in
the form of heat or light by a solar collector.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM.
      (1)   A solar energy system whose primary purpose is to harvest energy by
transforming solar energy into another form of energy or transferring heat from
a collector to another medium using mechanical, electrical or chemical means.
      (2)   A device, array of devices or structural design feature, the
purpose of which is to provide for generation of electricity, the collection,
storage and distribution of solar energy for space heating or cooling, daylight
for interior lighting or water heating.
   SOLAR FARM. A commercial facility that converts sunlight into electricity,
whether by photovoltaics (PV), concentrating solar thermal devices (CST) or
other conversion technology, for the primary purpose of wholesale sales of
generated electricity. A SOLAR FARM is the principal land use for the parcel on
which it is located.
   SOLAR GARDEN. A commercial solar-electric (photovoltaic) array that provides
retail electric power (or a financial proxy for retail power) to multiple
households or businesses residing or located off-site from the location of the
solar energy system. A community solar system may be either an accessory or
principal use.
   SOLAR HEAT EXCHANGER. A component of a solar energy device that is used to
transfer heat from one substance to another, either liquid or gas.
   SOLAR HOT AIR SYSTEM. A solar energy system (also referred to as solar air
heat or solar furnace) that includes a solar collector to provide direct
supplemental space heating by heating a re-circulating conditioned building
air. The most efficient performance typically uses a vertically mounted
collector on a south facing-wall.
   SOLAR HOT WATER SYSTEM. A system (also referred to as solar thermal) that
includes a solar collector and a heat exchanger that heats or preheats water
for building heating systems or other hot water needs, including residential
domestic hot water and hot water for commercial processes.
   SOLAR MOUNTING DEVICES. Racking, frames or other devices that allow the
mounting of a solar collector onto a roof surface or the ground.
   SOLAR RESOURCE. A view of the sun from a specific point on a lot or building
that is not obscured by any vegetation, building or object for a minimum of
four hours between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. standard time on all
days of the year.
   SOLAR STORAGE UNIT. A component of a solar energy device that is used to
store solar generated electricity or heat for later use.
(Ord. 2021-3-1, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 55.03 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USE.
   Solar energy systems shall be allowed as an accessory use in all zoning
classifications where structures of any sort are allowed, subject to certain
requirements as set forth below.
   (A)   Height. Solar energy systems must meet the following height
requirements: The building or roof-mounted solar energy systems shall not
exceed the maximum allowed height in any zoning district.
   (B)   Setback. Solar energy systems must meet the accessory structure
setback for the zoning district and primary land use associated with the lot on
which the system is located.
      (1)   Roof or building-mounted solar energy systems. In addition to the
building setback, the collector surface and mounting devices for roof-mounting
devices for roof-mounted solar energy systems hall not extend beyond the
exterior perimeter of the building on which the system is mounted or built.
      (2)   Ground-mounted solar energy systems. Ground-mounted solar energy
systems shall not be permitted within village limits.
   (C)   Visibility. Solar energy systems shall be designed to blend into the
architecture of the building as described in division (C)(2) below, or
otherwise be screened from routine view from public rights-of-way other than
alleys. The color of the solar collector is not required to be consistent with
other roofing materials.
      (1)   Building integrated photovoltaic systems. Building integrated
photovoltaic solar energy systems shall be allowed regardless of whether the
system is visible from the public right-of-way, provided the building component
in which the system is integrated meets all required setback, land use or
performance standards for the district in which the building is located.
      (2)   Solar energy systems with mounting devices. Solar energy systems
using roof-mounting devices shall not be restricted for aesthetic reasons if
the system is not visible from the closest edge of any public right-of-way
other than an alley. Roof-mount systems on pitched roofs that are visible from
the nearest edge of the street frontage right-of-way shall not have a highest
finished pitch steeper than the roof pitch on which the system is mounted and
shall be no higher than ten inches above the roof.
      (3)   Reflectors. All solar energy systems using a reflector to enhance
solar production shall minimize glare from the reflector affecting adjacent or
nearby properties. Measures to minimize glare include selective placement of
the system, screening on the north side of the solar array, modifying the
orientation of the system, reducing use of the reflector system or other
remedies that limit glare.
   (D)   Coverage. Roof- or building-mounted solar energy systems, excluding
building-integrated systems, shall allow for adequate roof access for
firefighting purposes to the south-facing or flat roof upon which the panels
are mounted.
   (E)   Historic buildings. Solar energy systems on buildings within
designated historic districts or on locally designated historic buildings
(exclusive of state or federal historic designation) must receive approval of
the community Heritage Preservation Commission, consistent with the standards
for solar energy systems on historically designated buildings published by the
U.S. Department of Interior.
   (F)   Approved solar components. Electric solar energy system components
must have a UL listing or approved equivalent and solar hot water systems must
have an SRCC rating.
   (G)   Compliance with Building Code. All solar energy systems shall meet
approval of local building code officials, consistent with the State Building
Code, and solar thermal systems shall comply with HVAC-related requirements of
the Energy Code.
   (H)   Compliance with State Electric Code. All photovoltaic systems shall
comply with the State Electric Code.
   (I)   Compliance with State Plumbing Code. Solar thermal systems shall
comply with applicable State Plumbing Code requirements.
   (J)   Utility notification. All grid-intertie solar energy systems shall
comply with the interconnection requirements of the electric utility. Off-grid
systems are exempt from this requirement.
(Ord. 2021-3-1, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 55.04 PRINCIPAL USES.
   The village encourages the development of commercial or utility scale solar
energy systems where such systems present few land use conflicts with current
and future development patterns. Ground-mounted solar energy systems are not
permitted within village limits.
   (A)   Solar gardens. The village permits the development of community solar
gardens, subject to the following standards and requirements.
      (1)   Rooftop gardens permitted. Rooftop community systems are permitted
in all districts where buildings are permitted.
      (2)   Ground-mount gardens. Ground-mount community solar energy systems
are not permitted within village limits.
      (3)   Interconnection. An interconnection agreement must be completed
with the electric utility in whose service territory the system is located.
      (4)   Dimensional standards. All structures must comply with setback,
height and coverage limitations for the district in which the system is
located.
   (B)   Solar farms. Ground-mount solar energy arrays are not permitted within
the village limits.
   (C)   Power and communication lines. Power and communication lines running
between banks of solar panels and to nearby electric substations or
interconnections with building shall be buried underground. Exemptions may be
granted by the village in instances where shallow bedrock, water courses or
other elements of the natural landscape interfere with the ability to bury
lines, or distance makes underground in feasible, at the discretion of the
Zoning Administrator.
   (D)   Site plan required. A detailed site plan for both existing and
proposed conditions must be submitted, showing location of all solar arrays,
other structures, property lines, rights-of-way, service roads, flood plains,
wetlands and other protected natural resources, topography, electric equipment
and all other characteristics requested by the village. The site plan should
also show all zoning districts and overlay districts.
   (E)   Decommissioning. A decommissioning plan shall be required to ensure
that facilities are properly removed after their useful life. Decommissioning
of solar panels must occur in the event they are not in use for 12 consecutive
months. The plan shall include provisions for removal of all structures and
foundations, restoration of soil and vegetation and a plan ensuring financial
resources will be available to fully decommission the site. Disposal of
structures and/or foundations shall meet the provisions of the village’s solid
waste ordinance. The village may require the posting of a bond, letter of
credit or the establishment of an escrow account to ensure proper
decommissioning.
(Ord. 2021-3-1, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 55.05 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Consistent with 765 ILCS 165, no homeowners’ agreement, covenant,
common interest community or other contract between multiple property owners
within a subdivision of the village shall prohibit or restrict homeowners from
installing solar energy systems.
   (B)   No energy policy statement enacted by a common interest community
shall be more restrictive than the village’s solar energy standards.
(Ord. 2021-3-1, passed 3-9-2021)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   State Vehicle Code
   
70.02   Excessive engine braking noise
§ 70.01 STATE VEHICLE CODE.
   In all matters affecting motor vehicles and traffic not referred to in the
village code, and where applicable, the provisions of the State Vehicle Code,
625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq., shall govern, and such Act is hereby incorporated by
reference.
(Prior Code, § 4-1)
§ 70.02 EXCESSIVE ENGINE BRAKING NOISE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any commercial vehicle, as
defined in § 1-111.8 of the State Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/1-111.8), to operate
or actuate on any street, highway or road within the village limits, any engine
braking system, which shall include, without limitation, the use of any engine
compression brake, engine retarder or mechanical exhaust device designed to aid
in the braking or deceleration of any vehicle that emits excessive noise.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the use of an engine braking system
that has an adequate sound muffling system in proper working order that
prevents excessive noise. Furthermore, this section shall not apply if the
driver used an engine braking system that emits excessive noise in an emergency
to avoid a collision with a person or another vehicle.
   (C)   On the effective date of this section, the Superintendent of Streets
for the village shall procure, install and maintain engine braking signs at
locations where streets and roads enter the village limits, and may add such
additional engine braking signs along the prohibited section, as necessary, to
effect the prohibitions contained in this section; provided, however, that any
engine breaking signs to be placed along State Route 75 shall be done so only
after receiving the permission of the State Department of Transportation in
accordance with § 11-303(b) of the State Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/11-303(b)).
Such signs shall state “excessive engine braking noise prohibited” and shall
conform to the rules adopted by the State Department of Transportation. The
provisions of this section are in full force and effect even if no signs are
installed.
(Ord. 2009-10-1, passed 10-13-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Parallel and angle parking
   
71.02   Prohibited parking areas
   
71.03   Parking for purposes of sales or non-emergency repairs
   
71.04   Unattended vehicles
   
71.05   Removal of illegally parked vehicles
   
71.06   Double parking
   
71.07   Fire zones
   
71.08   Responsibility for violations
Snow Emergencies
   
71.20   Definitions
   
71.21   Declaration of snow emergency
   
71.22   Towing of vehicles
   
71.23   Rules for parking during snow emergencies
   
71.24   Presumption of responsibility for violations
   
71.25   Snow on right-of-way
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 PARALLEL AND ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   Where parallel parking is permitted upon a roadway, every vehicle
shall be so parked that the right wheels, or the left wheels where parking on
the left side is permissible, are parallel to the edge of the roadway.
   (B)   When angle parking is permitted upon a roadway, every vehicle shall be
parked such that the front of the vehicle is pointed toward the curb and such
that one of the front wheels is within 18 inches of the curb.
   (C)   All streets on which parking is permitted shall be parallel parking
streets, except those streets within the Business District.
(Prior Code, § 26-1)
§ 71.02 PROHIBITED PARKING AREAS.
   No person shall park a vehicle in, or move a vehicle not lawfully in his or
her control into, any of the following places, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of an
authorized officer or traffic control device:
   (A)   On a sidewalk;
   (B)   In front of a driveway in a street or alley;
   (C)   In an intersection or crosswalk, or within 20 feet thereof;
   (D)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant located on a corner at intersecting
streets and within seven and one-half feet on either side of all other fire
hydrants;
   (E)   Within 30 feet of a traffic control device at the side of a roadway;
   (F)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
parking would obstruct traffic;
   (G)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped at the edge of a street;
   (H)   Upon a bridge or elevated structure;
   (I)   When parking will reduce the usable width of an alley to less than ten
feet;
   (J)   On the left side of a roadway;
   (K)   In a fire zone; and
   (L)   In the traffic lane of any street or roadway.
(Prior Code, § 26-3) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 PARKING FOR PURPOSES OF SALES OR NON-EMERGENCY REPAIRS.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the purpose of display
for sale, greasing or non-emergency repair, or for selling merchandise
therefrom, unless otherwise licensed or authorized to do so by the village.
(Prior Code, § 26-4) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended under any of the following circumstances:
    (A)   With the key in the ignition switch;
   (B)   With the engine running; and/or
   (C)   When parking in a parking space on a perceptible grade, without
effectively setting the brake.
(Prior Code, § 26-5) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   The Police Department or the Village President, or his or her designee, may
remove, or have towed away by a commercial towing service, any illegally parked
vehicles under the following circumstances.
   (A)   Emergencies. Vehicles illegally parked in a fire zone, as provided in
§
71.02(K), within 15 feet of a fire hydrant located on a corner at intersecting
streets and within seven and one-half feet on either side of all other fire
hydrants, as provided in §
71.02(D), on a bridge, as provided in §
71.02(H) or in a traffic lane of any street or roadway, as provided in §
71.02(L), are hereby declared to create emergency situations and may be towed
away without notice.
   (B)   Non-emergencies.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (A) above, upon complaint or
observation of any illegally parked motor vehicle upon any public or private
property, the Police Department or the Village President, or his or her
designee, shall issue a notice to the owner of such illegally parked motor
vehicle as follows:
         (a)   For a motor vehicle with proper registration and licensing,
notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested,
or by personal delivery as provided in the State Code of Civil Procedure; or
         (b)   For a motor vehicle without identifiable licensing, registration
or ownership, the notice shall be affixed to the illegally parked motor vehicle
in a conspicuous location. The notice provided hereof shall contain the
following information:
            1.   The vehicle is parked illegally as defined by this subchapter;
             2.   The owner has three days within which to remove the motor
vehicle;
            3.   The owner is entitled to a hearing concerning the village’s
decision to classify the vehicle as illegally parked;
            4.   A request of a hearing must be made within three days of the
date of the notice; and
            5.   The failure of the owner to remove the motor vehicle will
subject the motor vehicle to being towed at the owner’s expense and will
subject the owner of the motor vehicle to the penalties prescribed in this
chapter.
      (2)   (a)   The Police Department or the Village President, or his or her
designee, is hereby authorized to cause the towing, removal and storage of any
motor vehicle which is in violation of this chapter, and whose owner has not
removed or caused the removal of such motor vehicle after the service of the
notice as provided in this division (B)(2) within the three-day period.
         (b)   The owner of the vehicle towed shall be financially responsible
for the cost of such towing, removal and storage.
      (3)   Upon the towing and removal of the illegally parked motor vehicle,
the village shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed, including
the following information concerning such vehicle:
         (a)   The color;
         (b)   The year of manufacture;
         (c)   The manufacturer’s trade name;
         (d)   The manufacturer’s series number;
         (e)   The body style;
         (f)   The vehicle identification number;
         (g)   The license plate;
         (h)   The license plate number;
         (i)   The registration sticker year;
         (j)   The registration number displayed:
         (k)   The date and hour of the tow;
         (l)   The location from which the vehicle was towed;
         (m)   The location to which the vehicle was towed;
         (n)   The reason for the tow; and
         (o)   The name of the village official keeping said towing record.
(Prior Code, § 26-6)
Cross-reference:
   Snow emergency parking; towing of vehicles, see §
71.22
§ 71.06 DOUBLE PARKING.
   No person shall double park a vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 26-7) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 FIRE ZONES.
   The following is designated as a fire zone, within which parking is
prohibited as provided in §
71.02(K): within 20 feet of the driveway entrances of the fire station.
(Prior Code, § 26-8)
§ 71.08 RESPONSIBILITY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   The owner, as well as the driver, of any vehicle operated or parked in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be liable and
responsible for any such violation and for the penalties therefor provided in §
71.99.
(Prior Code, § 26-9)
SNOW EMERGENCIES
§ 71.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The segment of Stanton Street between Snyder Street and
Stanton Road, and Dawson Street between Turner Street and Salisbury Street.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle which is self-propelled except for vehicles moved
solely by human power and motorized wheelchairs.
   ODD-NUMBERED DAYS and EVEN-NUMBERED DAYS. The days identified with even and
odd numbers assigned each day on the calendar for the current month and year.
   ODD-NUMBERED AND EVEN-NUMBERED SIDES OF THE STREET. Referring to the street
address assigned each property by the village. Properties on the north and west
sides of each street are assigned even numbers. Properties on the south and
east sides of each street are assigned odd numbers.
   SNOW EMERGENCY. A period of time when there is two or more inches of snow on
the ground or when freezing rain, sleet, snowdrifts or other natural phenomena
create or are likely to create hazardous road conditions or road conditions
impeding or likely to impede the free movement of fire, health, police,
emergency or other vehicular traffic vital to the health, safety and welfare of
the community.
(Prior Code, § 7-1)
§ 71.21 DECLARATION OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Upon determining the conditions for a snow emergency exist, the Village
President or, in his or her absence, the Police Department, may declare a snow
emergency. Notice, such as can reasonably be given under the circumstances,
shall be given of the existence of a snow emergency.
(Prior Code, § 7-2)
§ 71.22 TOWING OF VEHICLES.
   During the existence of a snow emergency, the Police Department may direct
that vehicles parked in violation of this subchapter be towed to the nearest
available on-street or off-street parking area. In addition, the Police
Department may issue a citation to the owner of the vehicle. Neither the
village nor the towing service shall be liable for any damage to any vehicle so
towed.
(Prior Code, § 7-3)
§ 71.23 RULES FOR PARKING DURING SNOW EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   (1)   Following the declaration of a snow emergency, no person shall
obstruct the orderly removal of snow from the village streets by parking or
otherwise leaving unattended any motor vehicle upon all village streets.
      (2)   During the time of a snow emergency, no person shall leave parked
or standing any motor vehicle on the even-numbered side (north/west) of a
street in the village on an even-numbered day of the month, nor shall any such
vehicle be parked or standing on the odd-numbered side (south/east) of the
street in the village on an odd-numbered day of the month until the snow is
removed. For the purpose of this subchapter, odd- and even-numbered days shall
be considered as beginning at the hour of 8:00 a.m.
      (3)   Cul-de-sac shall have no parking during snow emergency until snow
is cleared.
   (B)   The parking restrictions of this division (B) shall terminate block by
block as soon the accumulated snow has been removed from the full width of the
street, and at such time regular parking regulations shall go back into effect.
Nothing contained in this division (B) shall be construed to permit parking on
streets where parking is otherwise restricted or prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 7-4) (Ord. 12 1991-A, passed 12-10-1991) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.24 PRESUMPTION OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   For the purpose of prosecution under this subchapter, if a vehicle is found
parked or left unattended in violation of the provisions of this subchapter,
the registered owner thereof shall be responsible for such violation.
(Prior Code, § 7-5)
§ 71.25 SNOW ON RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Excepting the clearing of snow from sidewalks or entries located upon a
public right-of-way, no person shall pile or cause to be piled any snow of
streets, alleys, sidewalks or any other village owned property, except at the
direction or with the permission of the village. Further, no person shall pile
or cause to be piled any snow so as to obstruct the vision at any intersection
of any street, within the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-6) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §§
71.01 through
71.08 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $250 for each violation,
if the fine is paid within five days from the issuance of the ticket.
(Prior Code, § 26-10)
   (C)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §§
71.20 through
71.25 shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $250 for each violation,
if the fine is paid within five days from the issuance of the ticket.
(Prior Code, § 7-7)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Snowmobiles
   
72.01   Operation generally
   
72.02   Liability of landowners
   
72.03   Operation on highways
   
72.04   Operating with firearms; emitting pollutants
Golf Carts and UTVs
   
72.15   Authorization
   
72.16   Purpose
   
72.17   Definitions
   
72.18   Requirements
   
72.19   Permits
   
72.20   ATVs and UTVs; operation and safety equipment
 
   
72.99   Penalty
SNOWMOBILES
§ 72.01 OPERATION GENERALLY.
   (A)   Snowmobiles shall use the shortest routes when entering and leaving
the village.
   (B)   Snowmobiles shall travel in single file on the right-half side of the
street and shall not travel at a speed in excess of 20 mph anywhere in the
village.
   (C)   The operation of snowmobiles shall be permitted within the village
between the hours of 6:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m., Sunday through Thursday, and from
6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. Friday and Saturday.
   (D)   Snowmobiles are not allowed in the village park at any time. It shall
be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any snowmobile within the
corporate limits of the village in the following ways:
      (1)   At a rate of speed too fast for conditions, and the fact that the
speed of the snowmobile does not exceed the applicable maximum speed limit
allowed does not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed as may be
necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle or object within legal
requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care;
      (2)   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner;
      (3)   While under the influence of intoxicating beverages or narcotic or
dangerous drugs;
      (4)   At any time without at least one lighted headlamp and one lighted
tail lamp on the snowmobile; and
      (5)   On private property belonging to another, without the written
consent of the owner or lessee thereof. Any person operating a snowmobile upon
lands of another shall stop and identify himself or herself upon the request of
the landowner or his or her duly authorized representative and, if requested to
do so by the landowner, shall promptly remove the snowmobile from the premises.
(Prior Code, § 6-1) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 LIABILITY OF LANDOWNERS.
   (A)   (1)   An owner, lessee or occupant of premises owes no duty to keep
the premises safe for entry or use by others for snowmobiling, or to give
warning of any unsafe condition or use of or structure or activity on such
premises.
      (2)   This division (A) does not apply where permission to snowmobile is
given for valuable consideration other than to the state or any political
subdivision or municipality thereof.
   (B)   (1)   An owner, lessee or occupant of premises who gives permission to
another to snowmobile upon such premises does not thereby extend any assurance
that the premises are safe for such purpose, or assume responsibility for or
incur liability for any injury to person or property caused by any act of
persons to whom the permission is granted.
      (2)   This division (B) shall not apply where permission to snowmobile is
given for valuable consideration other than to the state or any political
subdivision or municipality thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-2)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 40/5-1
§ 72.03 OPERATION ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   On highways other than tollways, interstate highways and limited-
access highways, snowmobiles may make a direct crossing provided:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing;
      (2)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing a
highway; and
      (3)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all on-coming traffic which
constitutes a hazard.
    (B)   On highways other than state highways, tollways, interstate highways
and limited-access highways, snowmobiles may be operated not less than 15 feet
from the roadway and in the same direction as traffic.
   (C)   On highways other than state highways, tollways, interstate highways
and limited-access highways, snowmobiles may be operated on roadways when it is
necessary to cross a bridge or culvert or when it is impracticable to gain
immediate access to an area adjacent to a highway where a snowmobile is to be
operated.
(Prior Code, § 6-3)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 40/5-2
§ 72.04 OPERATING WITH FIREARMS; EMITTING POLLUTANTS.
   (A)   No person, except persons permitted by law, shall operate or ride any
snowmobile with any firearm in his or her possession unless it is unloaded and
enclosed in a carrying case or any bow unless it is unstrung in a carrying
case.
   (B)   No person shall operate any snowmobile emitting pollutants in
accordance with the standards established pursuant to the State Environmental
Protection Act.
   (C)   No person shall deposit from a snowmobile on the snow, ice, ground
surface, trash, glass, garbage, insoluble material or other offensive matter.
(Prior Code, § 6-4) Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
      Unlawful use of weapons, see §
130.061
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 40/5-3
GOLF CARTS AND UTVS
§ 72.15 AUTHORIZATION.
   Golf carts and UTVs, as defined and qualified herein, may be operated on
village streets under the conditions stated herein.
(Ord. 2014-4-2, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 72.16 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter is adopted in the interest of public safety. Golf
carts and UTVs are not designed or manufactured to be used on public streets
and roadways, and the village in no way advocates or endorses their operation
on village streets. The village, by regulating such operation, is merely
addressing safety issues.
   (B)   This subchapter is not to be relied upon as a determination that
operation on village streets is safe or advisable even if done in accordance
with this subchapter. All persons operating golf carts or UTVs must be
observant of, and attentive to, the safety of themselves and others, including
their passengers, other motorists and pedestrians. All persons who operate golf
carts or UTVs on village streets do so at their own risk and peril. The village
has no liability for permitting golf carts and UTVs to be operated on village
streets.
(Ord. 2014-4-2, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 72.17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. An electric or gasoline-powered vehicle specifically designed and
intended for the purposes of transporting one or more persons and their golf
clubs or maintenance equipment while engaged in the playing of golf,
supervising the play of golf or maintaining the condition of the grounds on a
public or private golf course. The definition of GOLF CART specifically
excludes ATVs, UTVs and any other vehicle that is not a golf cart.
   UTV. An electric or gasoline-powered utility vehicle designed and intended
for the purposes of transporting one or more persons and equipment. The UTV
must have a manufactured top speed of 25 mph or less. The definition of UTV
specifically excludes ATVs and any other vehicle that is not a UTV or a UTV
with a manufactured top speed of 25 mph or greater.
   VILLAGE STREETS. Any of the streets maintained by and within the corporate
boundaries of the village. This definition does not include roadways maintained
by and under the jurisdiction of the state or the county.
(Ord. 2014-4-2, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 72.18 REQUIREMENTS.
   Golf carts and UTVs may only be operated on village streets in accordance
with the following requirements.
   (A)   (1)   The golf cart or UTV must be inspected by the person(s) or
entity(s) designated by the Village President or Village Board of Trustees and
must be registered with the village and display a valid village issued
registration platen on the front or rear of the golf cart/UTV.
      (2)   A current year sticker shall be affixed to the front windshield of
the golf cart/UTV.
      (3)   The burden of proof for manufactured top speed of a UTV shall fall
upon the owner of the UTV. This proof must be furnished by the owner and must
come from a direct source of the manufacturer of the UTV.
   (B)   Any person who operates a golf cart or UTV must be at least 16 years
of age and possesses a valid driver’s license issued in his or her name by the
Secretary of State or by any other state.
   (C)   Any person who operates a golf cart or UTV within the village shall be
subject to the mandatory insurance requirements under Article VI of Chapter 7
of the State Vehicle Code and must possess written proof of current liability
insurance.
   (D)   Golf carts or UTVs may be driven on village streets only from sunrise
to sunset. Golf carts/UTVs may not be operated when visibility is impaired by
weather, smoke, fog or other conditions, or at any time when there is
insufficient light to clearly see persons and vehicles on the roadway at a
distance of 500 feet.
   (E)   No golf cart or UTV shall be operated on a village street unless, at
minimum, it is equipped with the following:
      (1)   Brakes and brake lights;
      (2)   Turn signals;
      (3)   Steering wheel apparatus;
      (4)   Tires;
      (5)   A rearview mirror;
      (6)   Red reflectorized warning devices in the front and rear;
      (7)   A slow-moving emblem (as required of other vehicles under § 12-709
of the State Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/12-709));
      (8)   A headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of 500
feet to the front, which must illuminate when in operation;
      (9)   A tail lamp that emits a red light visible for at least 100 feet
from the rear, which must be illuminated when in operation;
      (10)   Seatbelts for operator and all passengers; and
      (11)   All additional equipment requirements made necessary by amendments
to the State Vehicle Code.
   (F)   No unsafe modifications may be made to the golf cart’s or UTV’s
suspension.
   (G)   At all times when a golf cart or UTV is being operated on a village
street, the golf cart/UTV shall have its head light illuminated and the
operator and any passenger(s) shall wear a seat belt.
   (H)   Golf carts/UTVs shall not be operated on sidewalks or in village parks
other than parking areas. Golf carts/UTVs shall not be operated on the
following streets, except to make a direct crossing at an intersection of those
streets with another public street:
      (1)   Stanton Street; and
      (2)   West Street.
   (I)   Golf carts/UTVs shall be operated on village streets which have a
posted speed limit of 35 mph or less, but golf carts/UTVs may never exceed 20
mph.
   (J)   Golf carts/UTVs must be operated in obeisance with all traffic laws of
the state and the village.
   (K)   A person operating or in actual physical control of a golf cart/UTV
while under the influence of drugs or alcohol shall be subject to §§ 11-500
through 11-502 of the State Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/11-500 through 5/11-502).
(Ord. 2014-4-2, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.19 PERMITS.
   No person shall operate a golf cart without obtaining a permit from the
village as provided herein.
   (A)   The cost of the annual permit shall be $50 or such other amount as be
determined from time to time by the Village Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Every application for a permit shall be made on a form supplied by the
village and shall include the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   The serial number, make, model and description of the golf cart;
      (3)   Name of the applicant’s liability insurance carrier;
      (4)   Photocopy of applicable liability insurance coverage card,
specifically for the golf cart to be operated pursuant to the permit;
      (5)   A signed release and waiver of liability by applicant releasing the
village and agreeing to indemnify and hold the village harmless from any and
all future claims resulting from the operation of his or her golf cart on
village streets; and
      (6)   Such other information as the village may require.
   (C)   No permit shall be granted unless the following conditions precedent
are met.
      (1)   The golf cart/UTV must pass an inspection by the designated
representative of the village to ensure that the golf cart/UTV is safe to
operate on village streets and is otherwise in compliance with this subchapter
and with the State Motor Vehicle Code.
      (2)   A physically handicapped applicant must submit a certificate signed
by a physician, certifying the applicant is able to safety operate a qualified
golf cart on village streets.
      (3)   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance in compliance with
the provisions of the state statutes regarding minimum liability insurance.
   (D)   Permits that are granted shall be for a period of one year and may be
renewed annually.
   (E)   The village may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder if the
village has reason to believe that the permit holder cannot safely operate a
golf cart/UTV on the village streets.
(Ord. 2014-4-2, passed 4-14-2014; Ord. 2014-4-2, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty, see
§
72.99
§ 72.20 ATVS AND UTVS; OPERATION AND SAFETY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   This section applies to UTVs which do not conform to the rest of this
subchapter.
   (B)   An ATV or UTV may be operated on the roadways within the village
limits without the use of registration pursuant to the following limitations as
defined below.
      (1)   ATVs or UTVs shall follow all rules of the road as defined in the
State Vehicle Code.
      (2)   ATVs or UTVs shall not exceed the village speed limit as posted.
      (3)   ATVs or UTVs shall have the following minimum safety equipment:
properly functioning headlights, taillights, brakes, brake lights, slow moving
emblem and speedometer (if no speedometer is equipped by manufacturer, then
operation shall not exceed posted speed limit).
      (4)   ATVs or UTVs shall only be operated on the roadways within the
village under the following conditions: while actively transporting implements
for snow removal or recreation park maintenance equipment, or while in direct
transport to/from a location for snow removal or recreation park maintenance
without delay.
(Ord. 2014-4-2, passed 6-14-2022)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §§
72.01 through
72.04 shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 6-5)
   (C)   A violation of any provisions of §§
72.15 through 72.21 shall be punishable by a payment of a fine not less than
$75 and not more than $500. Any second or subsequent offense shall result in
such fine and the revocation of the permit for a period of not less than one
nor more than three years. In the event a permit is revoked, there shall be no
refund of any of the permit fee paid. In addition to such fine or penalty, any
person convicted of violating any provision of §§
72.15 through 72.21 shall also be required to pay the village all reasonable
attorneys’ fees and costs incurred by the village for its part in the
adjudication of the violation. A default in the payment of a fine or penalty or
any installment of a fine or penalty may be collected by any means authorized
for the collection of monetary judgments. The village may retain attorneys and
private collection agents for the purpose of collecting any default in payment
of any fine or penalty or installment of that fine or penalty. Any fees or
costs incurred by the village with respect to attorneys or private collection
agents retained by the village shall be charged to the offender.
(Ord. 2014-4-2, passed 4-14-2014)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   NUISANCES
      
91.   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES
      
92.   DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
      
93.   ANIMALS
      
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
95.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
CHAPTER 90: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   General prohibition
   
90.02   “Nuisance” generally defined
   
90.03   Property conditions constituting a nuisance
   
90.04   Nuisances relating to garbage
   
90.05   Openings
   
90.06   Abatement procedure
   
90.07   Summary abatement
   
90.08   Statutory nuisance provisions
Noise Control
   
90.20   Disturbing, endangering health, peace or safety
   
90.21   Acts declared in violation of ordinance
Litter
   
90.35   Definitions
   
90.36   Litter in public places
   
90.37   Placement of litter in receptacles
   
90.38   Merchant’s duty
   
90.39   Persons in vehicles
   
90.40   Truck loads
   
90.41   Mail and newspapers
   
90.42   Litter on private property
   
90.43   Clearing of litter
Weeds
   
90.55   Nuisance
   
90.56   Duty to cut
   
90.57   Failure to cut
   
90.58   Lien declared
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   No person shall permit the existence of a nuisance, as hereinafter defined,
upon any premises which he or she owns, occupies or controls.
(Ord. passed 8-12-1997) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 “NUISANCE” GENERALLY DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, in addition to the specific definitions and
provisions hereinafter set forth, the term NUISANCE shall mean and include any
act, condition or offense which is injurious to safety or health, indecent or
offensive to the senses or morals, or is an obstruction to the free use of any
public property or way.
(Ord. passed 8-12-1997)
Cross-reference:
   Dangerous buildings defined as nuisances, see §
92.02
   Inoperable motor vehicles defined as a nuisance, see §
91.02
§ 90.03 PROPERTY CONDITIONS CONSTITUTING A NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be a violation and shall constitute a nuisance to maintain
private property in all residential districts in such a manner so as to cause a
detrimental effect to adjacent properties, by causing to have stored on the
exterior of the premises any of the following:
      (1)   Materials and items stored in a haphazard or unorganized manner so
as to present an objectionable visual appearance or a nuisance; but not to
include stacked firewood for use on the premises or compost material for use on
the premises;
      (2)   Yard maintenance equipment, including, but not limited to, lawn
mowers, garden tractors, snow blowers, garden tools and yard maintenance
material, including, but not limited to, fill dirt, mulch and building
materials, which are not used for their purposes or improvements within 90
days, or which merely constitute outdoor storage of said equipment, material or
items.
      (3)   Material or items brought to the premises for planned improvements
such as landscaping, construction and similar purposes, including, but not
limited to, fill, dirt, mulch and building materials, and which are not used
for said improvements within 90 days, or which merely constitute storage of
said material or items;
      (4)   Recreational equipment or parts thereof, including, but not limited
to, bicycles, motorcycles, boats, jet skis and snowmobiles, which are stored on
the exterior premises out of the normal season of usage, and which are stored
in a haphazard, or unorganized, or unprotected manner; or
      (5)   Household, commercial and industrial objects and materials which
are not ordinarily found in residential districts, stored for more than two
weeks on the exterior premises visible from adjacent properties or public
right-of-way.
   (B)   The detrimental effect to adjacent properties caused by said lack of
proper maintenance to any given property shall include, but not be limited to,
diminished property value to adjacent properties, the creation of an unsightly
and un-aesthetic appearance in the neighborhood in general and a decline or
loss of comfort, convenience, wellbeing and mental health of adjacent property
owners.
(Ord. passed 8-12-1997) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 NUISANCES RELATING TO GARBAGE.
   No person shall discharge, deposit, place or permit the discharge or deposit
or placing on any premises, except the sanitary landfills in the county, of any
garbage, filth, offal or refuse accumulations of animal, fruit or vegetable
matter, other nauseous matter or substance or waste from sewage disposal
facilities, which by reason of its quantity or decomposition would become foul,
odorous, subject to spontaneous combustion or otherwise become detrimental to
public health or conducive to the spread of disease.
(Ord. passed 8-12-1997) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 OPENINGS.
   Any open, abandoned wells or unused cisterns must be filled and sealed.
(Ord. passed 8-12-1997)
§ 90.06 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Upon notice from the Village Board or any law enforcement official in
writing, delivered in person or by certified mail, any such owner or occupants
shall correct all deficiencies set forth in such written notice within ten
days.
   (B)   Upon failure of any owner or occupant to comply with the provisions of
division (A) above, each such owner and occupant shall be individually liable
for payment of a fine of $75 per day for each day that such violation shall
continue.
   (C)   (1)   Upon failure of any owner or occupant to comply with the
provisions of division (A) above, the village may mow or clean the property or
hire such work to be done.
      (2)   The owner of said property and any occupants of said property shall
be jointly and severally liable to the village for any costs incurred at the
actual price paid by the village for hired work, or in the case that the
village performed the work with the village employees, at the rate of $25 per
man-hour for labor and $45 per hour equipment charge for any truck or tractor
utilized.
      (3)   The owner and any occupants of the age of 18 years or greater shall
be jointly and severally liable for such expenses.
   (D)   Any charge authorized by divisions (B) and (C) above shall constitute
a lien against the property of the owner until paid in full. The Village Clerk,
upon direction of the Village Board, shall record a notice of such lien with
the office of the County Recorder of Deeds. Upon full payment, the Village
Clerk is authorized to release such lien.
(Ord. passed 8-12-1997)
§ 90.07 SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   Nothing contained herein shall prevent the summary abatement by the Police
Department of any nuisance from which there is imminent danger to the life,
health or limb of any person.
(Ord. passed 8-12-1997)
§ 90.08 STATUTORY NUISANCE PROVISIONS.
   In addition to all provisions of this subchapter, all pertinent and
applicable provisions of the State Statute on Nuisances are incorporated by
reference as to acts or conditions prohibited, and as to procedures.
(Ord. passed 8-12-1997)
NOISE CONTROL
§ 90.20 DISTURBING, ENDANGERING HEALTH, PEACE OR SAFETY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made or
continued any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise or any noise which either
annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or
safety of others within the limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 9-1) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-2
§ 90.21 ACTS DECLARED IN VIOLATION OF ORDINANCE.
   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing and
unnecessary noises in violation of this subchapter, but such enumeration shall
not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
   (A)   Horns, signaling devices.
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or signaling device on any automobile,
motorcycle, streetcar or other vehicle on any street or public place of the
village, except as a danger warning; the creation by means of any such
signaling device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of
any such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time.
      (2)   The use of any signaling device except one operated by hand or
electricity; the use of any horn, whistle or other device operated by engine
exhaust; and the use of any such signaling device when traffic is for any
reason held up;
   (B)   Radios; phonographs; sound-producing or reproducing machines and
devices.
      (1)   The using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated
any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph or other machine or
device for the producing or reproducing of sound in such manner as to disturb
the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants or at any time with
louder volume than is necessary for convenient hearing for the persons who are
voluntary listeners thereto.
      (2)   The operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph, machine or
device between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner as to be
plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet from the building, structure or
vehicle in which it is located shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of
this section;
   (C)   Loudspeakers; amplifiers for advertising. The using, operating or
permitting to be played, used or operated of any radio receiving set, musical
instrument, phonograph, loudspeakers, sound amplifier or other machine or
device for the producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the public
streets for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention
of the public to any building or structure except with permission of the Board
of Trustees;
   (D)   Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or singing. Yelling, shouting,
hooting, whistling or singing on the public streets, particularly between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. or at any time or place so as to annoy or
disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office, or in any
dwelling, hotel or other type of residence, or of any persons in the vicinity;
   (E)   Animals; birds. The keeping of any animal or bird which by causing
frequent or long continued noise shall disturb the comfort or repose of any
persons in the vicinity;
   (F)   Exhausts. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam
engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motorboat or motor vehicle,
except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises therefrom;
   (G)   Defect in vehicle or load. The use of any automobile, motorcycle or
vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in such manner as to create loud and
unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise;
   (H)   Construction or repairing of buildings. The erection (including
excavating), demolition, alteration or repair of any building other than
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. on weekdays, except in case of
urgent necessity in the interest of public health and safety, and then only
with a permit from the Board of Trustees;
   (I)   Churches. The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent
to any church while the same is in use;
   (J)   Hawkers; peddlers. The shouting and crying of peddlers, hawkers and
vendors which disturbs the peace and quiet of the neighborhood;
   (K)   Piledrivers; hammers; other power tools or devices. The operation
between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of any piledriver, power mower,
steam shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or electric hoist or other power
tool, saw or device, the use of which is attended by loud or unusual noise; and
   (L)   Blowers. The operation of any noise creating blower or power fan or
any internal combustion engine, the operation of which causes noise due to the
explosion of operating gases or fluids, unless the noise from such blower or
fan is muffled and such engine is equipped with a muffler device sufficient to
deaden such noise.
(Prior Code, § 9-2) Penalty, see §
90.99
LITTER
§ 90.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. A putrescible animal and vegetable waste resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   LITTER. Garbage, refuse and rubbish, as defined herein, and all other waste
material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a
danger to public health, safety and welfare.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body
wastes), including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals,
abandoned automobiles and solid market and industrial wastes.
   RUBBISH. Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes; such as paper, printed matter, wrappings, cigarettes,
cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, wood, glass, bedding, metal crockery and
similar materials.
(Prior Code, § 12-1)
§ 90.36 LITTER IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, sidewalk or
other public place except in public or private receptacles for collection.
(Prior Code, § 12-2) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.37 PLACEMENT OF LITTER IN RECEPTACLES.
   Persons placing litter in private receptacles shall do so in such a manner
as to prevent it from being carried therefrom by the elements.
(Prior Code, § 12-3)
§ 90.38 MERCHANT’S DUTY.
   Persons owning or occupying places of business shall keep the sidewalk in
front of their business premises free of litter.
(Prior Code, § 12-4)
§ 90.39 PERSONS IN VEHICLES.
   No persons, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place or upon private property.
(Prior Code, § 12-5) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.40 TRUCK LOADS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle unless such vehicle is constructed
or loaded as to prevent any load, contents or litter from being blown or shaken
therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 12-6) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.41 MAIL AND NEWSPAPERS.
   Mail and newspapers shall be placed on private property so as to prevent
their being carried away by the elements.
(Prior Code, § 12-7)
§ 90.42 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall throw, keep, maintain or deposit litter, including tree
leaves or grass clippings, on any private property, whether occupied or not and
whether owned or controlled by such person or not, except that the owner or
person in control of private property may maintain receptacles for collection
so that litter will not be carried or deposited by the elements upon any
streets, sidewalk or other public or place.
(Prior Code, § 12-8) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.43 CLEARING OF LITTER.
   (A)   Upon the failure or refusal of any owner or agent to properly dispose
of litter, after reasonable notice, the village may arrange for the disposing
of such litter.
   (B)   The owner or agent shall be responsible for the cost of such work, in
addition to the penalties set forth below.
(Prior Code, § 12-9)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-20-13
WEEDS
§ 90.55 NUISANCE.
   All weeds determined to be noxious weeds by state law and applicable rules
and regulations thereunder and vegetation, including grass and weeds exceeding
eight inches in height or eight inches in length if matted down, not covered by
the state compiled statutes, but which serve as a breeding place for mosquitoes
and rodents are a menace to health and are hereby declared to be a public
nuisance. Landscape shrubbery, ornamental plants and congestion plating are
exempt when properly maintained.
(Prior Code, § 14-1)
§ 90.56 DUTY TO CUT.
   All such brush, weeds and vegetation shall be cut, pulled or sprayed and
destroyed by the owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or person in control of the
plot of ground, when their height, or length if matted down, exceeds eight
inches.
(Prior Code, § 14-2)
§ 90.57 FAILURE TO CUT.
   If the owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or person in control of the plot of
ground neglects or refuses to cut weeds so that such weeds shall exceed eight
inches in height, the village may cut the weeds or authorize some person to cut
the weeds on behalf of the village. The owner shall be responsible for the
costs associated with such cutting or removal.
(Prior Code, § 14-3)
§ 90.58 LIEN DECLARED.
   (A)   If the charges for the cutting or removal of weeds by the village are
not paid, such costs or expenses are liens against the real estate affected.
   (B)   A notice of lien shall be sent to the owner setting forth the
following:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the services; and
      (3)   The date when the cost and expense was incurred by the village.
(Prior Code, § 14-4)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-20-7
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
90.20 or
90.21 shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $250 for each violation.
(Prior Code, § 9-3)
   (C)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §§
90.35 through
90.43 shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $250 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 12-10)
   (D)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §§
90.55 through
90.58 shall be find not less than $75 nor more than $250 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 14-5)
CHAPTER 91: INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
91.01   Definition
   
91.02   Violations; public nuisance
   
91.03   Service of notice
   
91.04   Contents of notice
   
91.05   Towing
   
91.06   Disposal of vehicles in violation
   
91.07   Compliance required; violation
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any of the following:
         (a)   Any motor vehicle from which the engine, wheels or other parts
have been removed, or on which the engine, wheels or other parts have been
altered, damaged or otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being
operated under its own motor power for more than seven days;
         (b)   Any engines, wheels or other automotive parts which are detached
and separated from a motor vehicle and remain so for a period in excess of
seven days;
         (c)   Any motor vehicle which remains on public or private property
within the village for more than seven days which is not currently registered
with this state or another state; or
         (d)   Any motor vehicle which remains abandoned at the same location
on public property or on a parcel of private property which is not owned or
lawfully occupied by the owner of the motor vehicle for more than seven days.
(Prior Code, § 5-1)
      (2)   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE shall not include any of the following:
         (a)   A motor vehicle which has been rendered temporarily incapable of
being driven under its own motor power in order to perform ordinary service or
repair operations, provided that the repairs are completed within 30 days of
the date the motor vehicle was rendered incapable of being driven under its own
motor power;
         (b)   A motor vehicle which, when not in use, is kept within a
building, totally concealed from public view;
         (c)   An operable historic motor vehicle in excess of 25 years of age;
         (d)   A motor vehicle on the premises of a place of business engaged
in the wrecking or junking of motor vehicles; or
         (e)   A motor vehicle located on the sale lot of a licensed automobile
dealer.
(Prior Code, § 5-2)
(Ord. passed 1-9-1997; Ord. 2006-4-1, passed 4-11-2006)
§ 91.02 VIOLATIONS; PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   It is declared to be a violation of this chapter and a public nuisance to
maintain, keep, store or permit an inoperable motor vehicle on any private or
public property within the village.
(Prior Code, § 5-3) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Upon complaint or observation of an inoperable motor vehicle upon any public
or private property, a notice shall be given to the owner of the inoperable
motor vehicle as follows:
   (A)   When the owner of the vehicle can be identified by reasonable means:
      (1)   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, or shall be personally served upon the owner by the Police
Department; and
      (2)   A copy of the notice shall be affixed to the inoperable motor
vehicle in a conspicuous location.
   (B)   For an inoperable motor vehicle lacking registration plates and other
indicia of ownership, the notice shall be affixed to the inoperable motor
vehicle in a conspicuous location.
(Prior Code, § 5-4)
§ 91.04 CONTENTS OF NOTICE.
   The notice referred to in §
91.03 shall contain the following information, as a minimum:
   (A)   A statement that the vehicle is an inoperable motor vehicle, as
defined by this chapter;
   (B)   A warning that the owner has seven days within which to restore the
vehicle to operating condition or remove the vehicle from the village;
   (C)   Advice that the owner is entitled to a hearing concerning the
village’s decision to classify the vehicle as inoperable;
   (D)   Advice that a request for a hearing must be made to the Village Clerk
within seven days of the date of the notice; and
   (E)   A warning that, if the owner fails to restore the vehicle to operating
condition or remove it from the village within the time limit specified by the
notice, the village may have the vehicle towed and stored at the owner’s
expense and the owner of the inoperable motor vehicle shall be subject to the
penalties prescribed in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-5)
§ 91.05 TOWING.
   (A)   The Police Department is hereby authorized to arrange for the towing,
removal and storage of any motor vehicle which is in violation of §
91.02 and whose owner has not restored the vehicle to operating condition or
removed it from the village within seven days after the service of the notice
as provided in §
91.03. The owner of the vehicle towed and stored shall be financially
responsible for the costs of such towing and storage.
   (B)   As to each inoperable motor vehicle towed and stored pursuant to this
chapter, the village shall establish and maintain a record containing the
following information, as a minimum:
      (1)   The color;
      (2)   The year of manufacture, if ascertainable;
      (3)   The name of the manufacturer;
      (4)   The model;
      (5)   The body style (two-door, four-door, pickup and the like);
      (6)   The vehicle identification number, if visible;
      (7)   The state of registration, if reasonably ascertainable;
      (8)   The registration plate number, if any;
      (9)   The year shown on the registration sticker, if any;
      (10)   The date and hour of the tow;
      (11)   The location from which the vehicle was towed;
      (12)   The location at which the vehicle is stored; and
      (13)   The name of the village official keeping said towing record.
(Prior Code, § 5-6)
§ 91.06 DISPOSAL OF VEHICLES IN VIOLATION.
   Upon the expiration of the seven-day period set forth in §
91.04, the failure of the owner of an inoperable motor vehicle to restore the
vehicle to operating condition or remove it from the village shall entitle the
village to remove and dispose of the vehicle in accordance with 625 ILCS 5/4-
201 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 5-7)
§ 91.07 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; VIOLATION.
   Compliance with the provisions of this chapter is required. Persons failing
to comply with this chapter shall be deemed to be in violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-8) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
less than $75 nor more than $250 for the first violation and for the second,
and each subsequent violation. Each day a violation occurs or continues shall
constitute a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 5-9)
CHAPTER 92: DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
Section
   
92.01   Definition
   
92.02   Nuisance
   
92.03   Obligation
   
92.04   Placarding
   
92.05   Vacation
   
92.06   Abatement
   
92.07   Standards for decisions
   
92.08   Choice of remedies
   
92.09   Unknown owners
   
92.10   Court procedure
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING. Includes any building or structure, whether dwelling or
otherwise, as follows:
      (1)   Any building or other structure which is dangerous to the public
health because of its construction or condition, or which may cause or aid in
the spread of disease or cause injury to the health of the occupants or of
neighboring structures;
      (2)   Any building or other structure which, by reason of faulty
construction, age, lack of proper repair or any other cause, is especially
liable to fire and constitutes or creates a fire hazard;
      (3)   Any building or other structure which, by reason of faulty
construction, age, lack of proper repair or any other cause, is liable to cause
injury or damage by collapsing or by a collapse or fall of any part of such a
structure; and
      (4)   Any building, or other structure which, because of its condition or
because of lack of doors or windows is available to and frequented by
malefactors or disorderly persons who are not lawful occupants of such
structure.
(Prior Code, § 11-1)
§ 92.02 NUISANCE.
   Any dangerous building is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 11-2)
§ 92.03 OBLIGATION.
   No person shall maintain or permit the existence of a dangerous building,
and no owner, occupant or person in custody of a dangerous building shall
permit it to remain in a dangerous condition or occupy such building or permit
it to be occupied while it is in a dangerous condition.
(Prior Code, § 11-3) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 PLACARDING.
   A dangerous building may be so designated and placarded by the Village
Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 11-4)
§ 92.05 VACATION.
   Any placarded dangerous building shall be forthwith vacated by all persons
and shall not be again reoccupied until the defects have been removed.
(Prior Code, § 11-5)
§ 92.06 ABATEMENT.
   Upon the finding that a building is dangerous, the Village Clerk shall cause
written notice to be served upon the owner thereof, and upon the occupant
thereof, if any, by registered mail or by personal service. Such notice shall
state that the building has been declared dangerous, and that the dangerous
condition must be removed, by repair or demolition, at once. If the condition
is not removed subsequent to service of the notice, the village may repair or
demolish the dangerous building by following the procedures set forth in the
applicable state statute.
(Prior Code, § 11-6)
§ 92.07 STANDARDS FOR DECISIONS.
   The following standards shall be followed in ordering the repair, vacation
or demolition.
   (A)   If the dangerous building can reasonably be repaired so that it will
no longer exist in violation of the terms of this section, it shall be ordered
repaired.
   (B)   If the dangerous building is in such condition as to make it dangerous
to the health, morals, safety or general welfare of its occupants, it shall be
ordered vacated.
   (C)   (1)   If the dangerous building is 50% damaged, decayed or
deteriorated from its original value or structure, it shall be demolished, and
in all cases where a building cannot be repaired so that it will no longer
exist in violation of the terms of this section, it shall be demolished.
      (2)   In all cases where a dangerous building is a fire hazard existing
or erected in violation of the terms of this section, or any ordinance of the
village or statute of the state, it shall be demolished.
(Prior Code, § 11-7)
§ 92.08 CHOICE OF REMEDIES.
   All remedies provided and specified in this section shall be cumulative and
one, some or all of them may be used in any particular case or against any
particular dangerous building.
(Prior Code, § 11-8)
§ 92.09 UNKNOWN OWNERS.
   If the owner of the premises concerned is unknown, or if his or her address
is unknown, service of any notice provided for in this chapter may be made by
posting a copy thereof on the premises and by publishing onetime a copy thereof
in a newspaper qualified by statute.
(Prior Code, § 11-9)
§ 92.10 COURT PROCEDURE.
   All proceedings for demolition of buildings by court action, or for
injunction, shall be conducted in accordance with 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1.
(Prior Code, § 11-10)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less than
$75, nor more than $250 for each offense, and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
(Prior Code, § 11-11)
CHAPTER 93: ANIMALS
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Limit on type and number of animals within the village
   
93.03   Registration of dogs and cats
   
93.04   Rabies
   
93.05   Domestic animals at large
   
93.06   Animal disturbing the peace
   
93.07   Bites and attacks; vicious animals
   
93.08   Dangerous animals
   
93.09   Wastes to be disposed of by owner
   
93.10   Removal of dead animals
   
93.11   Cruelty to animals prohibited
   
93.12   Animals used for entertainment; prohibited acts
   
93.13   Trapping of animals prohibited
   
93.14   Authority of Code Enforcement Officer
   
93.15   Disposition of unclaimed animals
   
93.16   Fees and costs
   
93.17   Enforcement
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Every living creature, other than human, both domesticated and wild,
male and female.
   BITE. Seizure with the teeth or jaws of an animal so that the skin of the
human being or animal has been nipped, gripped, wounded, pierced or broken, and
further includes contact of saliva with any break or abrasion of the skin.
   CAT. All members of the feline family (Felis catus).
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A designee of the village, including, but not
limited to, the Village President, Village Clerk and the County Animal Services
Administrator, who may enforce the provisions contained in this chapter, and
has the power and authority to issue and serve citations for any violation of
this chapter.
   COUNTY. Stephenson County, State of Illinois.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any animal listed in §
93.08, as may be amended from time to time.
   DOG. Includes all animals of the canine species (Canis familiaris).
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal, except a farm animal or dangerous animal, which
has been domesticated so as to be kept in a tame condition as a household pet
or guardian.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL AT LARGE. Any animal that is not leashed and under the
control of the owner or a responsible person over 14 years of age. If the
animal is on the owner’s property, it is at large if it is not contained on the
property by means of a visible or invisible fence at all times able to contain
the domestic animal within the confines of the owner’s property, along with
appropriate signage, fence, chain, owner’s direct supervision, leash or other
visible means of restraint sufficient to protect pedestrians on public
property.
   EUTHANASIA. Death brought about by any medically recognized method that
produces instant loss of consciousness and results in death.
   FARM ANIMAL. Includes fowl, roosters, rabbits, horses, ponies, mules, bison,
cattle, goats, sheep, swine, potbelly pigs or any other hoofed animals, for no
matter what purpose such animal is kept.
   FOWL. Includes the larger, domesticated birds used as food, including
chickens, ducks, emus, geese, peafowl, ostriches and turkeys.
   KENNEL. Any establishment wherein any person engages in the business of
boarding, building, buying, grooming, letting for hire, training for a fee or
selling dogs; provided, however, that the ownership of dogs which are a part of
the household shall not constitute the operation of a KENNEL.
   LEASH. A cord, rope, strap or chain which is securely fastened to the collar
or harness of a dog or other animal, and which shall be of sufficient strength
to keep such dog or other animal under control.
   OTHER ENTERPRISE. Any public or private animal attraction or exhibition
staged temporarily, with or without charge to viewers, in compliance with
applicable ordinances of the village, statutes of the state and federal laws,
including, but not limited to, circuses, pony rides, rodeos, dog shows, cat
shows, livestock exhibitions, horse shows, other shows or expositions utilizing
or displaying animals, and businesses of any kind that place animals on display
to the public for promotion or advertising purposes.
   OWNER. Any person having a right of property in an animal, or who keeps or
harbors any animal, or for purposes of this chapter, who has an animal in their
care or custody or acts as its custodian, or who knowingly permits it to remain
on or about any premises owned or occupied by the person.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, unincorporated organization, limited or
general partnership, limited liability company, society, association or other
entity.
   STRAY ANIMAL. Any animal not under restraint and not in the presence of its
owner.
   TRAP. To capture, or attempt to capture, by setting or placing a leg hold
trap, cushion-hold trap, body-gripping trap, cage or box trap, spring trap,
dead/fall trap, pit/trap, snare or another similar device to capture, hold or
kill any animal.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any domestic animal that bites or attacks, or which is known
to have bitten or attacked a human being or other animal, without provocation
and where such human being or animal is lawfully entitled to be. Once an animal
has been declared to be a vicious animal, the designation remains for the life
of the animal.
(Ord. 2023-8-1, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 93.02 LIMIT ON TYPE AND NUMBER OF ANIMALS WITHIN THE VILLAGE.
   (A)   Only domestic animals shall be allowed to be kept within any household
or building or on any real property located in the village.
   (B)   There shall be a maximum limitation per household or building located
within the village of five domestic animals, excepting households previously
lawful on the effective date of this chapter and so continuing; provided,
however, that any newborn domestic animals born from the same litter shall be
allowed to remain in the household despite the limitation of this section for
up to four months from the date of birth. The Code Enforcement Officer or his
or her designee may impound immediately every animal exceeding the limit per
household.
   (C)   Any violation of this section is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance, and each day this section is violated shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (D)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, there shall be no limitation on
the maximum number of domestic animals allowed to be kept in any building
located in a district zoned for commercial use if such animals are kept
pursuant to veterinarian services by licensed veterinarians, or by authorized
dog or cat grooming services.
(Ord. 2023-8-1, passed 8-8-2023) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 REGISTRATION OF DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   Every person who owns, keeps or harbors a dog or cat within the limits
of the village shall, within 30 days of acquisition of the dog or cat, and
annually on such date as may be determined by the county, register the dog or
cat or cause it to be registered with the village and provide proof of rabies
inoculation and registration in compliance with §
93.04.
   (B)   (1)   License tags from the county shall be presented to the village
and displayed and/or attached to the collar of the registered dog or cat at all
times.
      (2)   The owner of any dog or cat that has been microchipped shall
provide proof of such microchipping with the Village Clerk at the time of
registration. The provisions of this section are optional.
(Ord. 2023-8-1, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 93.04 RABIES.
   All provisions of the Animal Control Act (510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.) and Chapter
205 (Animals) of the county’s code of ordinances with regard to rabies
inoculation and registration are hereby adopted and incorporated as part of
this chapter, and enforceable as such.
(Ord. 2023-8-1, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 93.05 DOMESTIC ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who owns, keeps or harbors a domestic animal shall cause or
permit such animal to run at large within the village. Any domestic animal
running at large is hereby declared a public nuisance, whether currently
licensed or not, and may be promptly impounded.
    (B)   (1)   Persons who utilize invisible fencing to contain any domestic
animal must display prominently on their property immediately adjacent to the
public right-of-way a sign which indicates that any domestic animal located
thereon is contained by way of invisible fencing.
      (2)   Invisible fencing installed after the effective date of this
chapter must be at all times able to confine the domestic animal within the
boundaries of the owner’s property.
(Ord. 2023-8-1, passed 8-8-2023) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 ANIMAL DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or any person who keeps or harbors any
animal, or for any person who has the power or authority to prevent same, to
suffer or permit any such animal to bark, howl, cry or make any other noise
which unreasonably disturbs the peace and quiet of any place, family, person or
neighborhood in the village. Such disturbance of the peace is a public
nuisance, and it shall be unlawful for any person to suffer or permit such
nuisance to exist on his or her property.
(Ord. 2023-8-1, passed 8-8-2023) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 BITES AND ATTACKS; VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner of an animal to prevent such
animal from biting or attacking any person, animal or property of another. Any
animal that, without provocation, bites or attacks any person, animal or
property of another is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to keep or harbor in the village any vicious
animal unless the owner of such vicious animal complies with the requirements
of the Animal Control Act (510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.).
(Ord. 2023-8-1, passed 8-8-2023) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep or harbor within the village:
      (1)   Any farm animal;
      (2)   Any snake, reptile or lizard that is physically capable of causing
serious bodily injury to any person or animal, regardless of age, by bite,
poison, constriction or other means;
      (3)   Any lion, tiger, cougar, jaguar, panther, bobcat, mountain lion,
lynx, ocelot, leopard, wolf, coyote, jackal, fox, wild dog, squirrel, opossum,
raccoon, skunk, bird of prey, or any hybrid of any of the foregoing, or any
other exotic animal, or any other animals not allowed to be owned, kept or
harbored under any applicable local, state or federal law.
   (B)   Any animal listed in division (A) above is declared a public nuisance
and may be removed in accordance with this chapter.
   (C)   Each day any dangerous animal is kept in violation of this section
shall constitute a separate offense. It is no defense to a violation of this
section that the owner or keeper of any such animal which is prohibited in this
section has attempted to domesticate such animal. The owner shall be held
strictly liable for all expenses incurred in removing the animal from the
village.
   (D)   Any such dangerous animal found to be within the village may be
apprehended and impounded by the Code Enforcement Officer or his or her
designee. The disposition of such animals covered by this section shall be in
accordance with the provisions of the laws of the state.
(Ord. 2023-8-1, passed 8-8-2023) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09 WASTES TO BE DISPOSED OF BY OWNER.
   (A)   The owner of every animal shall be responsible for the removal and
sanitary disposition of feces deposited by his or her animal anywhere in the
village.
   (B)   When accompanying the animal outside his or her property, the owner
shall have on his or her person suitable means for the removal of such excreta
which must then be placed in a refuse container for sanitary removal.
(Ord. 2023-8-1, passed 8-8-2023) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.10 REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   Every animal owner must, within a reasonable amount of time, notify the
village upon the death of any animal which the owner registered with the
village, pursuant to §
93.03, and must properly dispose of such animal.
(Ord. 2023-8-1, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 93.11 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person or owner shall treat any animal cruelly in any manner,
including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   By failing to provide any animal in their care or custody with
proper food, water, air and sanitary shelter. Such shelter to be sufficient to
provide adequate bedding and protection from the weather, and space within
sufficient for the animal to stand in an upright position and lie down
stretched out so that no part of its body need touch the sides of the shelter
structure. Animals kept in an outside enclosure must have sufficient space for
movement and exercise according to the animal’s size and weight;
      (2)   By abandoning any animal where it may become a public charge or may
suffer injury, hunger or exposure;
      (3)   By overloading, overdriving, overworking, hitting, torturing,
tormenting or mutilating any animal, or cause or knowingly allow the same to be
done;
      (4)   By failing to provide necessary veterinary attention to sick
animals in need which are in any persons care or custody;
      (5)   By cruelly working any old, maimed, infirm, sick or disabled
animal, or cause or knowingly allow same to be done;
      (6)   By carrying, keeping, driving or causing to be carried, driven or
kept any animal in a cruel manner;
      (7)   By leaving or confining any animal in a motor vehicle, trailer or
other enclosure in such a manner that it places the animal in a life or health
threatening situation due to exposure to heat or cold, without sufficient
ventilation or other protection from such heat or cold;
      (8)   By intentionally wounding or attempting to wound or kill, or by
intentionally and knowingly poisoning or causing to be poisoned, any animal
with the exception of insects, snakes, skunks, gophers, chipmunks, bats, rats
or mice located or found within any household, garage, shed or other fully
enclosed structure located on a person’s property;
      (9)   By tethering any animal to a fixed object unless such chains, ropes
or leashes are so placed or attached that they cannot become entangled with
another animal or object and shall be of sufficient length in proportion to the
size of the animal to allow the animal proper exercise and convenient access to
food, water and shelter. Such tethering shall be located so as not to allow
such animal to trespass on public property or private property belonging to
others, nor in such a manner as to cause harm or danger to persons or other
animals; or
      (10)   By transporting an animal on any public thoroughfare in any
vehicle unless such animal is totally enclosed within such vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   If the owner cannot be located after reasonable search, or if
the owner shall be known to be absent due to illness, incarceration or other
circumstance, the animal may be removed by the Code Enforcement Officer and
impounded until such time said owner may be located and able to redeem the
animal.
      (2)   The owner shall be held strictly liable for all expenses incurred.
(Ord. 2023-8-1, passed 8-8-2023) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.12 ANIMALS USED FOR ENTERTAINMENT; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall own, capture, breed, train or lease any animal which
he or she knows or should know is intended for use in any show, program or
other activity featuring or otherwise involving a fight between such animal and
any other animal or person, or the intentional killing of any animal for the
purpose of sport, wagering or entertainment.
   (B)   No person shall promote, carry on, advertise, collect money for or in
any other manner assist or aid in the presentation for purposes of sport,
wagering or entertainment, any show, program or other activity involving a
fight between two or more animals or the intentional killing of any animal.
   (C)   No person shall sell or offer for sale, ship, transport or otherwise
move or deliver, or receive any animal which he or she knows or should know has
been captured, bred or trained, or will be used to fight another animal or be
intentionally killed for the purpose of sport, wagering or entertainment.
   (D)   No person shall sell or offer for sale, ship, transport or otherwise
move any equipment or device which such person knows or should know is intended
for use in connection with any show, program or activity featuring or otherwise
involving a fight between two or more animals or the intentional killing of any
animal for purposes of sport, wagering or entertainment.
   (E)   No person shall make available any site structure or facility, whether
enclosed or not, which he or she knows or should know is intended to be used
for the purpose of conducting any show, program or other activity involving a
fight between two or more animals or the intentional killing of any animal.
   (F)   No person shall attend or otherwise patronize any show, program or
other activity featuring or otherwise involving any animals or the intentional
killing of any animal for the purposes of sport, wagering or entertainment.
(Ord. 2023-8-1, passed 8-8-2023) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.13 TRAPPING OF ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to trap, attempt to
trap or aid and abet any person in trapping any animal, with the exception of
insects, snakes, skunks, gophers, chipmunks, bats, rats or mice; provided,
however, that this section shall not apply to any authorized village employee
acting in the course of his or her official duties, or any other person so
authorized in writing by the Code Enforcement Officer, and shall not apply to
any appropriately licensed animal trapper.
(Ord. 2023-8-1, passed 8-8-2023) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.14 AUTHORITY OF CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Code Enforcement Officer or his or her designee is authorized to impound
animals wherever impoundment is called for in this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-8-1, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 93.15 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED ANIMALS.
   (A)   If an impounded animal is not redeemed by its owner within seven days
after being sent written notice of the impoundment to the owner’s last known
address, the animal shall be placed for adoption, destroyed or disposed of, as
determined by the Code Enforcement Officer or his or her designee in accordance
with all applicable laws, rules or regulations of the state. Upon expiration of
the seven-day notice period, the owner shall forfeit any and all ownership or
property interest in the impounded animal. The owner shall be held strictly
liable for all expenses incurred by the village under this section.
   (B)   Whenever it shall become necessary to destroy an animal, the method of
destruction shall be in accordance with accepted practices of euthanasia from a
humane standpoint.
(Ord. 2023-8-1, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 93.16 FEES AND COSTS.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, the village or county,
as the case may be, may ascertain and bill the owner or keeper of any animal
that is being harbored or maintained in violation of this chapter the actual
costs incurred by the village or county in seizing and confining such animal,
including, but not limited to, veterinary costs, all direct or indirect costs
incurred for animal confinement and/or maintenance and any reasonable
attorneys’ fees and/or court costs that are incurred.
(Ord. 2023-8-1, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 93.17 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to obstruct,
impede or interfere with the capture, impound or disposal of any animal in
accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Officer or any village employees or other persons
authorized to enforce the provisions of this chapter shall not be held liable
for the injury, death or disease which may occur to any animal as a consequence
of the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter; provided, that such
injury, death or disease was not the result of willful and wanton acts or
omissions of any said persons.
(Ord. 2023-8-1, passed 8-8-2023) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Every owner or any other person who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon a finding of liability, be punished by a fine of not less
than $75 and not more than $250. For a second offense of the same nature, the
fine shall equal not less than $150 and not more than $750 and for a third
offense of the same nature, the fine shall equal not less than $250 and not
more than $1,000. Each occurrence of any violation of this chapter shall
constitute a separate offense. This penalty shall be in addition to other
penalties or remedies provided by this chapter, or by state or federal law.
(Ord. 2023-8-1, passed 8-8-2023)
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
94.01   Hours
   
94.02   Animals
   
94.03   Camping
   
94.04   Fires
   
94.05   Tennis court use
   
94.06   Intoxication
   
94.07   Protection of property
   
94.08   Refuse
   
94.09   Weapons
   
94.10   Keep to drives
   
94.11   Parking
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 HOURS.
   The village park shall be closed from sundown in the evening until daybreak
the following morning. No person shall remain in the park after closing time
unless such person has obtained written permission from the Village Board to do
so.
(Prior Code, § 18-1) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall bring a dog, cat or other animal within the park
unless such animal is on a leash or otherwise restrained.
   (B)   No person shall ride, lead or allow to be loose within the park, any
horse, pony or other riding animal.
   (C)   Any person who brings a dog, cat or other animal within the park shall
pick up, remove and deposit into an appropriate receptacle, any excrement
deposited by such animal.
(Prior Code, § 18-2) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 CAMPING.
   No person shall place, erect or use any hammock, tent or shelter or
otherwise camp or sleep in the park except such persons or groups who may have
received written permission from the Village Board to do the same.
(Prior Code, § 18-3) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 FIRES.
   No person shall light or make use of any fire in the park, except in
existing cooking grills provided by the village. Every such fire shall be
continuously under the care and direction of a competent person from the time
it is kindled until it is completely extinguished and all coals have cooled.
(Prior Code, § 18-4) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 TENNIS COURT USE.
   Individuals using the tennis courts shall change every hour on the hour
unless no other individuals are waiting to use said courts.
(Prior Code, § 18-5)
§ 94.06 INTOXICATION.
   No person, under the influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotic drugs,
shall enter or remain in the park, nor shall any person bring within, possess,
drink, sell or transfer any intoxicating liquors or narcotic drugs in the park.
This section shall not apply to wine intended for use and used by any church or
religious organization for sacramental purposes.
(Prior Code, § 18-6) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 PROTECTION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall mark, injure, damage, destroy or take in any way park
property or the property of others in the park. No person shall discharge any
injurious substance upon property of any kind in the park.
   (B)   No person shall climb upon any plants, fence, structure or property of
any kind in the park, except such recreational equipment as may be installed by
the Village Board for such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 18-7) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 REFUSE.
   (A)   No person shall deposit any garbage, refuse or other material of any
kind within the park.
   (B)   Paper, glass, cans, garbage and other refuse of every kind, resulting
from picnics or other proper use of the park shall be deposited only in
receptacles provided for that purpose, and no person shall litter, or cause the
park to be littered in any way.
(Prior Code, § 18-8) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall bring, carry or use in any way knives, firearms, air
guns or other weapons of any kind, or any fireworks or other explosive
substances of any kind in the park.
   (B)   No person shall throw, cast or shoot stones, arrows or other missiles
of any kind within the park, except at such place and times as the Village
Board may designate for such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 18-9) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.10 KEEP TO DRIVES.
   No person shall drive any automobile, truck, motorcycle, snowmobile,
skateboard or motorized vehicle within the park, except upon the parking lots
and roadways provided for driving or parking the same.
(Prior Code, § 18-10) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.11 PARKING.
   (A)   Generally. No person shall park or place any vehicle or other property
of any kind within the park so as to obstruct traffic or travel or endanger the
public safety. Further, no person shall park any vehicle in any of the
following places, except where otherwise designated:
      (1)   On lawn areas and grounds;
      (2)   In front of public or private driveways; or
      (3)   In any position to block another car legally parked.
(Prior Code, § 18-11)
   (B)   Parking lot. No person shall park any vehicle in the parking lot of
the park beyond the normal closing time of the park except where an individual
is attending a function where permission has been granted for a later closing
hour by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 18-12)
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
less than $75 nor more than $250 for each violation.
(Prior Code, § 18-13)
CHAPTER 95: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Open Burning
   
95.01   Generally
   
95.02   Permit required
   
95.03   Exemptions
 
   
95.99   Penalty
OPEN BURNING
§ 95.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Outside burning may be carried on only in a covered metal container or
incinerator having adequate openings in the bottom to ensure good combustion.
   (B)   No burning device may be located within three feet of any property
line, public street or sidewalk, or within ten feet of any combustible
material.
   (C)   Only paper, paper goods or cardboard may be burned in an outdoor
burning device.
   (D)   Paper, paper goods and cardboard shall be placed in a burning device
and burned only when any resultant fire hazard will be minimized.
   (E)   No burning device shall be used for the storage of rubbish.
   (F)   Every burning device must be clean and in good repair in order that
safe burning may be carried out with a minimum nuisance to the neighborhood.
   (G)   No substance that gives off noxious smoke, such as drugs, chemicals,
home wastes and animal wastes shall be burned.
(Prior Code, § 15-1) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Any other form of outside burning shall require a permit from the Village
Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 15-2)
§ 95.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following activities are not in violation of this subchapter unless they
cause air pollution, as defined in § 9(c) of the State Environmental Protection
Act of 1970:
   (A)   The setting of fires to combat or limit existing fires, when
reasonably necessary in the judgment of the Board of Trustees;
   (B)   The burning of fuels for legitimate campfire, recreational and cooking
purposes, or in domestic fireplaces, in areas where such burning is consistent
with other laws;
   (C)   Small open flames for heating tar, for welding, acetylene torches,
highway safety flares and the like; or
   (D)   The burning of leaves shall be permitted on private property from
April 1 through June 1 and October 1 through December 1 between the hours of 8:
00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. Leaves cannot be burned on public streets or property,
sidewalks or close to any building so as to create a fire hazard and must be
attended by an adult at all times.
(Prior Code, § 15-3)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
95.01 through
95.03 shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $250 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 15-4)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND VENDORS
      
111.   AMUSEMENTS
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND VENDORS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Peddling or selling on streets
Charitable Solicitations
   
110.15   Definitions
   
110.16   Prohibited actions
Door-to-Door Vendors
   
110.30   Definitions
   
110.31   Prohibited acts
   
110.32   Further prohibitions
   
110.33   Registration required
   
110.34   Exemption of not-for-profit groups
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 PEDDLING OR SELLING ON STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person to peddle or sell merchandise on any ways.
(Prior Code, § 17-1) Penalty, see §
110.99
CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS
§ 110.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHARITABLE PURPOSE. The use of money or property for the benefit of any
charitable, religious, benevolent, human philanthropic or patriotic purpose.
   CHARITABLE SOLICITATION. Conduct whereby a person solicits property,
financial aid, gifts in money, donations, contributions, any article
representing monetary value, sells or offers to sell, a product, article, tag,
service, publication, ticket, advertisement or subscription on the plea or
representation, whether expressed or implied, that the proceeds from the
solicitation or sale are for a charitable purpose.
(Prior Code, § 17-2)
§ 110.16 PROHIBITED ACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ring a bell or knock on a door,
or otherwise enter a dwelling for the purpose of engaging in charitable
solicitation when notice, bearing the words “No Solicitors”, or words of
similar import indicating that such persons are not wanted on such premises, is
painted, affixed or otherwise exposed to public view.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in charitable
solicitation between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in charitable solicitation
to fail, at the outset, to disclose honestly and correctly to the prospective
donor his or her name and the name of the firm, organization or corporation he
or she represents.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in charitable solicitation
to employ any ruse, plan or scheme, or make any assertion, representation or
statement of fact which misrepresents the purpose of his or her call.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in charitable
solicitation after having been asked by the owner, manager or occupant of the
dwelling to leave such premises.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in charitable solicitation
to fail to provide at the request of the donor a written receipt acknowledging
a contribution and personally signed by the person accepting such contribution.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in charitable
contributions to use threats, expressed or implied, or coercion as an
inducement to obtain a contribution.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in charitable solicitation
to continue efforts to obtain a contribution when specifically requested to
discontinue such efforts by the prospective contributor.
(Prior Code, § 17-3) Penalty, see §
110.99
DOOR-TO-DOOR VENDORS
§ 110.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL HOME MERCHANDISING. The selling, offering to sell, soliciting,
taking orders, canvassing, offering services of any kind, character or
description, or making demonstrations of any goods, wares, chattel or things of
value for immediate delivery or to be delivered or performed in the future, by
any person who goes from house to house or residential dwelling to residential
dwelling within the village.
(Prior Code, § 17-4)
§ 110.31 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ring a bell or knock on a door,
or otherwise enter a dwelling for the purpose of engaging in commercial home
merchandising when notice, bearing the words “No Solicitors”, or words of
similar import indicating that such persons are not wanted on such premises, is
painted, affixed or otherwise exposed to public view.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in commercial home
merchandising between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in commercial home
merchandising to fail, at the outset, to disclose honestly and correctly to the
prospective buyer his or her name and the name of the firm, organization or
corporation he or she represents.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in commercial home
merchandising to employ any ruse, plan or scheme, or make any assertion,
representation or statement of fact which misrepresents the purpose of his or
her call.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in commercial home
merchandising after having been asked by the owner, manager or occupant of the
dwelling to leave such premises.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in commercial home
merchandising to fail to provide, at the request of the purchaser, a written
receipt, which receipt shall be signed by the person making the sale and set
forth a brief description of the goods or services sold, the total purchase
price thereof, amount of cash payment, if any, and the balance due and terms of
payment, if any.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in commercial home
merchandising to use threats, expressed or implied, or coercion as an
inducement to make a sale.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in commercial home
merchandising to continue efforts to make a sale when specifically requested to
discontinue such efforts by the prospective buyer.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in commercial home
merchandising to misrepresent the right of a buyer to rescind or cancel a sale
under state and/or federal law.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in commercial home
merchandising to represent that goods or services have sponsorship, approval,
characteristics, ingredient, uses, benefits or qualities that they do not have
or that a person has sponsorship, approval, status, qualification, affiliation
or connection with an individual, organization, firm or corporation, that he or
she does not have.
   (K)   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in commercial home
merchandising to represent that goods or services have sponsorship, approval,
characteristics, ingredients, uses, benefits or qualities that they do not have
or that goods are original or new if they are deteriorated, altered,
reconditioned, reclaimed, used or secondhand.
   (L)   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in commercial home
merchandising to make false or misleading representations concerning the
availability of credit or the nature of the transaction or obligation incurred.
   (M)   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in commercial home
merchandising to advertise or attempt to sell his or her goods, wares,
merchandise, chattel, things of value or services of any kind, character or
description, by any type of public outcry, including the use of mechanical
means.
(Prior Code, § 17-5) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.32 FURTHER PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in commercial home merchandising
to:
   (A)   Obstruct any public street, public highway, public sidewalk or public
alley or way, or any other public place or building by hindering, or impeding,
or tending to hinder or impede, the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles,
traffic or pedestrians;
   (B)   Commit in or upon any public street, public highway, public sidewalk,
alley or public way or any other public place or building, any act or thing
which is an obstruction or interference to the free and uninterrupted use of
property or with any business lawfully conducted by anyone in or upon or facing
or fronting on any such public street, public highway, public place or
building, which prevents the free and uninterrupted ingress, egress or regress
therein, thereof and thereto, and no person shall, by his or her presence or by
other means, either alone or in consort with others, interfere with or
interrupt the conduct of business in the offices located in such buildings; or
   (C)   Obstruct or interfere with the free and uninterrupted use of private
residential property as a residence by hindering or impeding, or tending to
hinder or impede, the free, uninterrupted passage of vehicles or persons.
(Prior Code, § 17-6) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.33 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Any person who engages in commercial home merchandising must, before
commencing the commercial home merchandising, do the following: register with
the Village Clerk five working days before commencing any commercial home
merchandising within the village and provide the Village Clerk with the
following information: full name, date of birth and Social Security number of
the individual who is to engage in the commercial home merchandising.
(Prior Code, § 17-7)
§ 110.34 EXEMPTION OF NOT-FOR-PROFIT GROUPS.
   Not-for-profit organizations, as defined in §
111.01, shall be exempt from the registration requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 17-8)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less than
$75 nor more than $250 for each violation.
(Prior Code, Chapter 17, Article 4)
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Games of Chance
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Raffles generally
   
111.03   Licenses
   
111.04   Conduct of raffles
   
111.05   Manage of raffles
   
111.06   Records
   
111.07   Indemnification
Gambling
   
111.20   Licensed video gaming establishments
   
111.21   All other gambling activities prohibited
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GAMES OF CHANCE
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHARITABLE. An organization or institution organized and operated to benefit
an indefinite number of the public. The services rendered to those eligible for
benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.
   EDUCATION. An organization or institution organized and operated to provide
systematic instruction in the useful branches of learning by methods common to
schools and institutions of learning which compare favorable in their scope and
intensity with a course of study presented in tax supported schools.
   FRATERNAL. An organization of persons having a common interest, the primary
interest of which is to promote the welfare of its members and provide
assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the burdens of
government by caring for those who otherwise would be cared for by the
government.
   LABOR. An organization composed of workers organized with the objective of
betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit and the
development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective occupations.
   NET PROCEEDS. The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less
reasonable sums expended for prizes, local license fees and other reasonable
operating expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
   NON-PROFIT. Art organizations or institutions organized and conducted on a
not-for-profit basis with no personal profit inuring to anyone as a result of
the operation.
   RAFFLE. A form of lottery, conducted by an organization licensed under this
subchapter, in which:
      (1)   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or a combination of numbers or by
some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance; and/or
      (2)   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
   RELIGIOUS. Any church, congregation, society or organization founded for the
purpose of religious worship.
   VETERANS. An organization or association comprised of members of which
substantially all are individuals who are veterans, or are spouses, widows or
widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of
its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to
confer public benefit.
(Prior Code, § 16-1)
§ 111.02 RAFFLES GENERALLY.
   (A)   Class A: General raffle license. A Class A raffle license shall permit
an organization the ability to conduct a raffle that may include multiple
drawings to award prizes, but all drawings must occur on the same day and at
the same location and within the confines of the same raffle event. The
following limitations shall apply as to prizes, merchandise and chances in
connection with any Class A raffle event conducted within the village:
      (1)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by
a licensee in connection with a single raffle shall not exceed $30,000.
      (2)   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded by a licensee in a
single raffle shall not exceed $12,000 unless such a request is made in writing
and approved by the Village Board of Trustees.
      (3)   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance
issued or sold shall not exceed $100.
      (4)   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or
sold shall not exceed 120 consecutive days.
      (5)   No raffle tickets shall be sold on village-owned property unless
such a request is made in writing and approved by the Village Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   Class B: 52 week progressive license. A Class B license shall be an
annual license dating the first of a month through the next successive 12
calendar months. A Class B license shall permit the conduct of a raffle with a
maximum single cash prize or the maximum retail value of a single non-cash
prize not exceeding $250,000 and an aggregate maximum value of all cash and
non-cash prizes awarded not exceeding $250,000. A Class B raffle license shall
permit an organization the ability to conduct a raffle that may include
multiple drawings to award prizes, but all drawings must occur on the same day
and at the same location and within the confines of the same raffle event.
   (C)   License required. It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or
operate a raffle, or to sell, offer for sale, convey, issue, or otherwise
transfer for value a chance on a raffle, unless conducted pursuant to a license
duly-issued by the village and in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (D)   Raffle license application.
      (1)   Any person seeking to conduct or operate a raffle shall file an
application therefore with the raffle administrator(s) on forms provided by the
village. Pursuant to the Illinois Raffles and Poker Runs Act, such application
shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   The area within the village in which the raffle chances will be
sold and issued;
         (c)   The time period during which raffle chances will be sold or
issued;
         (d)   The date, time, manner and location(s) of determining the
winning chances;
         (e)   A sworn statement attesting to:
            1.   The nonprofit character of the applicant signed by its
presiding officer; and
            2.   That no owner, shareholder, employee, or agent of applicant
has been convicted of a felony, is a professional gambler or promoter or a
person described in §
111.03(A)(2);
         (f)   Such other information as the village may require.
      (2)   The Village Board of Trustees shall act on a license application
within 30 days from the date of application.
(Prior Code, § 16-2)
§ 111.03 LICENSES.
   (A)   License qualification.
      (1)   Raffle licenses shall be issued only to a bona fide religious,
charitable, labor, business, fraternal, educational, or veterans' organizations
that operate without profit to their members and which have been in existence
continuously for a period of five years immediately before making application
for a license and which have had, during that entire five-year period, a bona
fide membership engaged in carrying out their objectives, or to a nonprofit
fundraising organization that the Village Board of Trustees determines, in each
specific case, is organized for the sole purpose of providing financial
assistance to an identified individual or group of individuals suffering
extreme financial hardship as the result of an illness, disability, accident,
or disaster.
      (2)   No raffle license shall be issued to:
         (a)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
         (b)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
         (c)   Any person who is not of good moral character;
         (d)   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in divisions
(a) through (c) immediately above has a proprietary, equitable or credit
interest, or in which such person is active or employed;
         (e)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (a)
through (c) immediately above is an officer, director, or employee, whether
compensated or not; or
         (f)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (a)
through (c) immediately above is to participate in the management or operation
of a raffle as defined in this subchapter.
   (B)   Licensing fees.
      (1)   Class A: General raffle license. A license fee of $25 shall be
payable to the village upon application for a Class A license.
      (2)   Class B: 52 week progressive raffle license. An initial license fee
of $50 shall be payable to the village upon application for a Class B license.
No additional license fee shall be required for a Class B license if the
aggregate value of all cash and non-cash prizes is $25,000 or less. If the
aggregate value of all cash and non-cash prizes exceeds $25,000, additional
license fees for a Class B license shall be assessed in increments of $50 for
each additional multiple of $25,000. The application fees are non-refundable,
even in the event that the raffle application is rejected by the Village Board
of Trustees or the raffle is canceled.
(Prior Code, § 16-3)
§ 111.04 CONDUCT OF RAFFLES.
   The conducting of raffles within the village is subject to the following:
   (A)   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct that game.
   (B)   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating in
the management or operation of the raffle.
   (C)   A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the winning
chance or chances only from an organization which is also licensed under this
subchapter.
   (D)   A licensee may determine the winning chances in a raffle only at the
location specified on the raffle license.
   (E)   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area or area
specified on the license.
   (F)   Winning chances must be determined only at the time, date, and
location specified on a Class A license and only during the period of time and
at the location specified on a Class B license.
   (G)   No person under the age of 18 may participate in the conducting of
raffles or chances. A person under the age of 18 may be within the area where
winning chances are being determined only when accompanied by a parent or
guardian.
(Prior Code, § 16-4)
§ 111.05 MANAGE OF RAFFLES.
   (A)   All operations and conducts of raffles shall be under the supervision
of a single raffle manager as designated on the license application.
   (B)   A manager shall give a fidelity bond in the sum of the aggregate
retail value of the prizes set out on the application. The bond shall be in
favor of the organization conditioned on the raffle manager's honesty in the
performance of his or her duties. Said bond shall provide that notice shall be
given in writing to the village not less than 30 days prior to the cancellation
period. If the retail value of the prizes exceeds $15,000, such bond shall be
by a corporate surety.
   (C)   The Village Board of Trustees may waive the bond requirement with
respect to a Class A license by including a waiver provision in the license
issued to an organization under this subchapter, provided that a license
containing such waiver provision shall be granted only by unanimous vote of the
members of the licensed organization.
(Prior Code, § 16-5)
§ 111.06 RECORDS.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall keep records of
its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each single gathering or
occasion at which winning chances are determined. All deductions from gross
receipts for each single gathering or occasion shall be documented with
receipts or other records indicating the amount, a description of the purchased
items or service, or other reason for the deduction, and the recipient. The
distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee, purpose, amount and
date of payment.
   (B)   Gross receipts from the operation or raffle programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts, if bingo games are also conducted by the same not-for-profit
organization pursuant to their licenses issued by the State Department of
Revenue, and placed in a separate account. Each organization shall have
separate records of each of its raffles. The person who accounts for gross
receipts, expenses and net proceeds from the operation of raffles shall not be
the same person who accounts for other revenues of the organization.
   (C)   Each organization licensed to conduct a raffle shall within 30 days
after the conclusion of each raffle report to its membership, and to the
Village Board, by filing a written report with the Village Clerk, its gross
receipts, its expenses and net proceeds from the raffle, and the distribution
of net proceeds itemized as required in this section.
   (D)   Records required by this section shall be preserved for three years,
and organizations shall make available their records relating to operation of
raffles for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
(Prior Code, § 16-6)
§ 111.07 INDEMNIFICATION.
   A licensee shall indemnify and hold harmless the village, its agents,
officers, and employees against all injuries, death, losses, damages, claims,
suits, liabilities, judgments, costs and expenses including any liabilities,
judgments, costs and expenses and reasonable attorney's fees which may arise
directly or indirectly from licensee's raffle and/or raffle event with the
village. Licensee understands and agrees that in no way does a raffle license
issued by the village create any liability of any kind for the village
regarding the licensee's raffle and/or raffle event within the village.
Licensee shall, at its own cost and expense, defend and pay all charges of
attorneys, costs, and other expenses arising therefrom or incurred in
connection therewith with licensee's raffle and/or raffle event. If any
judgment shall be rendered against the village, its agents, officers, official
or employees in any such action, licensee shall, at its own expense, satisfy
and discharge the same.
GAMBLING
§ 111.20 LICENSED VIDEO GAMING ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Definitions. All definitions contained in the State Video Gaming Act
(230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.), including any subsequent amendments thereto, are
hereby incorporated herein by this reference as though set forth at length
herein and shall apply to the terminologies indicated whenever they are used in
this chapter, unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning. Reference is hereby particularly made to the definitions in the Video
Gaming Act of VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL, LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT, LICENSED FRATERNAL
ESTABLISHMENT and LICENSED VETERANS ESTABLISHMENT.
   (B)   Video gaming devices prohibited unless licensed by state. The
possession, placement, maintenance, operation or use of a video gaming terminal
in a public place within the corporate boundaries of the village is prohibited,
unless such video gaming terminal is licensed by the state and such possession,
placement, maintenance, operation or use is conducted in full compliance with
all rules, regulations and restrictions imposed by the Video Gaming Act (230
ILCS 40/1 et seq.), including any subsequent amendments thereto, the provisions
of this chapter, as well as all federal and state laws and regulations.
   (C)   License requirements. To operate a video gaming terminal in a public
place within the corporate boundaries of the village, each licensed
establishment, licensed fraternal establishment and licensed veterans
establishment, shall possess a valid liquor license issued by the village and a
valid liquor license issued by the State Liquor Control Commission, both of
which must be in effect at the time of application and at all times thereafter
during which a video gaming terminal is made available to the public for play
at that location. In addition, a license issued by the village shall be
required annually for the operation of each video gaming terminal made
available to the public for play. The license fee shall be $250 per terminal,
per year. The term of each license year shall run from July 1 through June 30
in the following year. Each license issued later than July 1 shall terminate on
June 30, but said license fee shall not be reduced in proportion to the full
calendar months which have expired in the year prior to the issuance of the
license. There shall be no refund to owners of licenses that are canceled or
revoked prior to expiration for any reason. The annual license fee shall be
paid in advance of the ensuing license year. No license shall be issued to the
applicant until payment in full for such license is received by the village.
The burden is upon each licensed establishment to demonstrate its suitability
for licensure. A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for a time
period not to exceed one year after issuance, unless sooner revoked as provided
by law, and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to
attachment, garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable or
transferrable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered.
   (D)   Regulations governing licensed establishment operating video gaming
terminals. The following regulations shall apply to the possession, placement,
maintenance, operation or use of a video gaming terminal in a public place
within the corporate boundaries of the village.
      (1)   No more than five video gaming terminals may be located on the
licensed establishment’s premises.
      (2)   Other than having up to five video gaming terminals with valid
video gaming licenses, a licensed establishment is prohibited from having,
anywhere on its premises, any electronic video gaming machine that may be
available to play or simulate the play of poker, line up, blackjack, faro,
roulette, craps, slots or any other card or dice game or other game of chance,
or that is otherwise akin to a gambling or gambling device as defined in
Article 28 of the State Criminal Code of 1961, as amended (720 ILCS 5/28-1 et
seq.), even if solely for amusement purposes.
      (3)   All video gaming terminals must be located in an area restricted to
persons 21 years of age or older. An entrance to such area must, at all times,
be within the view of at least one employee who is at least 21 years of age.
      (4)   No licensed establishment may cause or permit any person under the
age of 21 years to use, play or operate a video gaming terminal.
      (5)   No video gaming terminal may be operated except during the legal
hours of operation allowed for the consumption of alcoholic beverages at the
licensed establishment pursuant to
Chapter 112.
      (6)   The use and operation of video gaming terminals shall in all other
respects conform with the State Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.), all
rules and regulations promulgated by the State Gaming Board and all other
applicable laws and regulations of the state.
   (E)   Revocation/suspension of village license. The Village Board of
Trustees may revoke or suspend any video gaming establishment license issued by
the village if it determines that the licensed establishment has violated any
of the provisions of this chapter or any of the provisions of
Chapter 112. No license(s) shall be so revoked or suspended, except after a
hearing before the Board of Trustees, with a three-day written notice to the
licensed establishment, affording the licensed establishment an opportunity to
appear and defend. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any licensed establishment
that has its liquor license revoked or suspended by the village or by the State
Liquor Control Commission, or has its video gaming license revoked or suspended
by the State Gaming Board, shall automatically, without a hearing before the
Village Board of Trustees, have its village video gaming establishment license
(s) revoked or suspended for the same time-frame as its liquor and/or State
Gaming Board gaming license(s) is/are suspended, whichever the case may be.
(Ord. 2012-9-1, passed 9-11-2012)
§ 111.21 ALL OTHER GAMBLING ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful to gamble by any method within the corporate boundaries of
the village, except as permitted under the limited exceptions set forth in this
chapter and in § 5/28.1(b) of Article 28 of the State Criminal Code of 1961, as
amended (720 ILCS 5/28-1(b)), including any subsequent amendments thereto. All
applicable and pertinent provisions of 720 ILCS 5/28-1 et seq. are incorporated
herein by reference, provided that if the provisions of the village code
conflict with or contravene any applicable and pertinent provisions of 720 ILCS
5/28-1 et seq., the provisions of the village code shall control.
(Ord. 2012-9-1, passed 9-11-2012) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provisions of §§
111.01 through
111.06 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $750 for each violation.
   (C)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of §§
111.20 and
111.21, including any provision of any statute or code adopted by reference
therein, and including any rule or regulation promulgated under authority of
any such statute or code adopted by reference therein, shall be fined not less
than $100 nor more than $750 for each offense. Unless otherwise provided, a
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation or noncompliance occurs or continues. The penalty provided for herein
shall be in addition to any and all other remedies which may be available to
the village under §§
111.20 and
111.21 or any other provision of the village code, or federal or state law.
(Prior Code, § 16-8) (Ord. 2012-9-1, passed 9-11-2012)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Application
   
112.04   Persons ineligible for license
   
112.05   Terms, payment and prorating of fee
   
112.06   Classification of license; fees
   
112.07   Proof of liability insurance
   
112.08   Disposition of fees
   
112.09   Record of license issued and revoked
   
112.10   Qualities of license; change of location
   
112.11   Restricted areas
   
112.12   Age restrictions
   
112.13   Hours of sale
   
112.14   Limitations of number of licenses
   
112.15   Bond
   
112.16   Revocation
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   All definitions contained in the State Liquor Control Act, 235 ILCS 5/
1-1, are hereby incorporated herein by reference, as though set forth at length
herein, and shall be fully binding on this chapter except only insofar as the
same are clearly in conflict with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Reference is hereby particularly made to the definitions in said act
of SPIRITS, WINE, BEER, ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR, RETAILER, SELL AT RETAIL, SALE and TO
SELL.
(Prior Code, § 8-1) (Ord. 2022-2-1, passed 2-8-2022)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell or offer
for sale at retail in the village any alcoholic liquor without having a retail
liquor dealer’s license, or in violation of the terms of such license.
(Prior Code, § 8-2) (Ord. 2022-2-1, passed 2-8-2022) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 APPLICATION.
   Application for such license shall be made to the President of the Village
Board in writing under oath, setting forth the same information as is required
in the application of obtaining a retail liquor dealer’s license from the
state. All applications for renewals of licenses issued hereunder shall be
filed with the President of the Village Board at least 15 days prior to the
expiration of the term of the current license.
(Prior Code, § 8-3) (Ord. 2022-2-1, passed 2-8-2022)
§ 112.04 PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   No license shall be issued to or renewed for:
   (A)   A person who is not a resident of the village;
   (B)   A person who is not of good character and reputation;
   (C)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of any
state;
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill fame;
   (F)   A person who has been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor opposed to
decency and morality;
   (G)   A person whose license has been revoked for cause;
   (H)   A partnership unless at least one partner is qualified hereunder;
   (I)   A corporation, if any office, manager or director thereof, or
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock
of such corporation, is or are unqualified hereunder for any reason other than
citizenship and residence. To be eligible, a corporation must employ a full-
time manager of the business who is qualified under this section;
   (J)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manger or agent
unless said manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of a
license;
   (K)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor;
   (L)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is sought,
or does not have a written lease thereon for the full period for which the
license is to be issued; and
   (M)   A person unqualified by reason of residence shall have 90 days after
commencement of ownership or management to establish residence.
(Prior Code, § 8-4) (Ord. 2022-2-1, passed 2-8-2022)
§ 112.05 TERMS, PAYMENT AND PRORATING OF FEE.
   Each license issued hereunder shall terminate on May 15 next following its
issuance. The fee to be paid shall be reduced in proportion to the full
calendar months which have expired in the year prior to the issuance of the
license. The entire license fee for each year, or unexpired portion of the
year, shall be paid in one sum in advance.
(Prior Code, § 8-5) (Ord. 2022-2-1, passed 2-8-2022)
§ 112.06 CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSE; FEES.
   (A)   Classification of licenses. Licenses issued under this chapter shall
be divided into classes as follows.
      (1)   Class A licenses. Class A licenses shall authorize the retail sale
on the licensed premises of alcoholic liquor in the original package for
consumption on or off the licensed premises, and by the drink for consumption
on the licensed premises only, but not for sale at a location which also sells
gasoline or other fuel for dispensing into motor vehicles. There shall be
issued in the village no more than two Class A licenses at any one time.
      (2)   Class B licenses. Class B licenses shall authorize the retail sale
of beer and wine (and no other alcoholic liquor) by a market, but not for
consumption on the premises where it is sold and not for sale at a location
which also sells gasoline or other fuel for dispensing into motor vehicles. All
beer and wine must be sold in the original package and may not be sold,
individually. There shall be issued in the village no more than one Class B
license at any one time.
      (3)   Class C licenses. Class C licenses shall authorize the retail sale
of beer, wine and/or distilled spirits in its original package, not for
consumption on the premises where sold, and also authorizes the retail sale on
the specified premises of beer (and no other alcoholic liquor) by the drink for
consumption on the premises.
   (B)   Fees payable. The fees to be paid to the village for a license under
each class specified in division (A) above is as follows.
 
Class A $750 per renewal
Class B $750 per renewal
Class C $1,500 per renewal
 
(Prior Code, § 8-6) (Ord. 2022-2-1, passed 2-8-2022)
§ 112.07 PROOF OF LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   Each application for issuance or renewal of a license shall be accompanied
by a certificate of insurance from a reputable insurance company licensed to do
business in the state, showing evidence of insurance against liability under
the provisions of the State Dram Shop Act, 235 ILCS 5/6-21 in no less than the
minimum amount required thereby, and liability insurance coverage in an amount
not less than $1,000,000 per person/occurrence and $2,000,000 in the aggregate
or $2,000,000 combined single limits for bodily injury, personal injury and
property damage liability.
(Ord. 2022-2-1, passed 2-8-2022)
§ 112.08 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   In the event that the license applied for is denied, the fee shall be
returned to the applicant; if the license is granted, the fee shall be
deposited in the corporate fund of the village.
(Prior Code, § 8-7) (Ord. 2022-2-1, passed 2-8-2022)
§ 112.09 RECORD OF LICENSE ISSUED AND REVOKED.
   The President of the Village Board shall keep, or cause to be kept, a
complete record of all such licenses issued by him or her and shall furnish the
Clerk and Treasurer each with a copy thereof. Upon the issuance of any new
license, or the revocation of an existing license, the President shall notify
in writing said officers of such action within 48 hours of such action.
(Prior Code, § 8-8) (Ord. 2022-2-1, passed 2-8-2022)
§ 112.10 QUALITIES OF LICENSE; CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   A license shall be purely a personal privilege, valid for a period not to
exceed one year after issuance unless sooner revoked, and shall not be
alienable or transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily. Such license shall
permit the sale of alcoholic liquor only in the premises described in the
application and license. Such location may be changed only upon the written
consent to make such change by the President. No change of location shall be
permitted unless the proposed new location is a proper one for the retail sale
of alcoholic liquor under the law of the state and the ordinances of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 8-9) (Ord. 2022-2-1, passed 2-8-2022)
§ 112.11 RESTRICTED AREAS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to consume any
alcoholic beverage while on any street, sidewalk, alley or park situated in or
controlled by the village.
   (B)   No license permitting the sale of alcoholic liquors under this chapter
shall be issued to any person, firm or corporation for all of the village
except those lots and plots abutting Stanton Street between Snyder and Carnefix
streets.
(Prior Code, § 8-10) (Ord. 2022-2-1, passed 2-8-2022) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.12 AGE RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase or consume alcoholic liquors
in or from any licensed premises in the village in violation of the age
restriction provisions in the statutes of the state with reference to purchase
or consumption of alcoholic liquors, as they exist from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 8-11) (Ord. 2022-2-1, passed 2-8-2022) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.13 HOURS OF SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to sell, or offer for sale, at retail any alcoholic
liquor in the village, between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. It shall be
unlawful to sell, offer for sale, dispense or give away any alcoholic liquor on
Sunday between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 8-12) (Ord. 2022-2-1, passed 2-8-2022) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.14 LIMITATIONS OF NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   There shall be issued in the village no more than a total of two Class “A”
licenses at any one time.
(Prior Code, § 8-13) (Ord. 2022-2-1, passed 2-8-2022)
§ 112.15 BOND.
   No applicant shall be required to file a bond payable to the village for the
application of a license. This section solely pertains to a bond payable to the
village and does not eliminate any bonds required by the state pursuant to the
State Liquor Control Act.
(Prior Code, § 8-14) (Ord. 2022-2-1, passed 2-8-2022)
§ 112.16 REVOCATION.
   The President may revoke any retail liquor dealer’s licenses for any
violation of any provision of this chapter, for non-payment of any part of a
license fee or for any violation of any law of the state pertaining to the sale
of alcoholic liquor.
(Prior Code, § 8-15) (Ord. 2022-2-1, passed 2-8-2022)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter, including any provision of any statute or code adopted by reference in
this chapter, and including any rule or regulation promulgated under authority
of any such statute or code adopted by reference to this chapter, shall be
fined not less than $250 nor more than $1,000 for each offense. Unless
otherwise provided, a separate offense shall be deemed committed each day
during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues. The
penalty provided for herein shall be in addition to any and all other remedies
which may be available to the village under this chapter, or any other
provision of the village code, or federal or state law.
(Prior Code, § 8-16) (Ord. 2022-2-1, passed 2-8-2022)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Offenses Pertaining to Property
   
130.001   Criminal damage to property
   
130.002   Criminal defacement of property
Offenses Against Public Order
   
130.015   Disorderly conduct
   
130.016   Assault
   
130.017   Battery
   
130.018   Loitering
   
130.019   Curfew for minors
Offenses Against Public Morals
   
130.030   Public indecency
Offenses Against Public Health and Safety
   
130.045   Nuisances generally
   
130.046   Barbed wire and electrically charged fences
   
130.047   Dense smoke
   
130.048   Use of sound amplifiers
   
130.049   Climbing telephone poles
Offenses Against the Public Peace
   
130.060   Discharging firearms
   
130.061   Unlawful use of weapons
   
130.062   Discharging fireworks
   
130.063   Air guns and slingshots
   
130.064   Mob action
Drugs
   
130.075   Adoption of Cannabis Control Act
   
130.076   Adoption of Controlled Substances Act
   
130.077   Adoption of Drug Paraphernalia Control Act
 
   
130.999   Penalty
OFFENSES PERTAINING TO PROPERTY
§ 130.001 CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO PROPERTY.
   Whoever commits any of the following acts shall be guilty of a violation of
this section:
   (A)   Knowingly damages any property of another without his or her consent;
   (B)   Recklessly by means of fire or explosive damages property of another;
   (C)   Knowingly starts a fire on the land of another without his or her
consent;
   (D)   Knowingly injures a domestic animal of another without his or her
consent;
   (E)   Knowingly deposits on the land or in the building of another, without
his or her consent, any stink bomb or any offensive smelling compound and
thereby intends to interfere with the use by another of the land or building;
or
   (F)   Damages any property with intent to defraud an insurer.
(Prior Code, § 3-4) Penalty, see §
130.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/21-1
§ 130.002 CRIMINAL DEFACEMENT OF PROPERTY.
   A person commits criminal defacement of property when the person knowingly
damages the property of another without his or her consent by defacing,
deforming or otherwise damaging the property by the use of paint or any other
similar substance, or by the use of a writing instrument, etching tool or any
other similar device.
(720 ILCS 5/21-1.3(a)) (Prior Code, § 3-5) Penalty, see §
130.999
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
§ 130.015 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   A person commits disorderly conduct, which is a violation of this section,
when he or she knowingly:
   (A)   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace;
   (B)   With intent to annoy another, makes a telephone call, whether or not
conversation thereby ensues;
   (C)   Transmits in any manner to the Fire Department a false alarm of fire,
knowing at the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for
believing that such fire exists;
   (D)   Transmits in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect that a
bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed in such place that its
explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such transmission
that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such bomb or explosive is
concealed in such place;
   (E)   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public officer or public
employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed, knowing at
the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing
that such an offense has been committed; or
   (F)   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful purpose
deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window or other
opening in it.
(Prior Code, § 3-1) Penalty, see §
130.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/26-1
§ 130.016 ASSAULT.
   A person commits an assault and is guilty of a violation of this section,
when, without lawful authority, he or she engages in conduct which places
another in reasonable apprehension of receiving a battery.
(Prior Code, § 3-2) Penalty, see §
130.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/12-1
§ 130.017 BATTERY.
   A person commits battery, which is a violation of this section, if he or she
intentionally or knowingly without legal justification and by any means:
   (A)   Causes bodily harm to an individual; or
   (B)   Makes physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an
individual.
(720 ILCS 5/12-3) (Prior Code, § 3-3)
§ 130.018 LOITERING.
   Any person who shall obstruct or encumber any street, crossing or other
public place of the village by lounging or loitering in or upon the same, after
being requested to move on by an officer, shall violate this section.
(Prior Code, § 3-7)
§ 130.019 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person less than 18 years of age to be
present at or upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway at
the following times unless accompanied and supervised by a parent, legal
guardian or other responsible companion at least 21 years of age approved by a
parent or legal guardian, or unless engaged in a business or occupation which
the laws of this state authorize a person less than 18 years of age to perform:
      (1)   Between 12:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. Saturday;
      (2)   Between 12:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. Sunday; and
      (3)   Between 11:00 p.m. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and 5:00 a.m.
on the following day.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person less than 16 years of age to be
present at or upon any public assembly building, place, street or highway at
the following times unless accompanied and supervised by a parent, legal
guardian or other responsible companion at least 21 years of age approved by a
parent or legal guardian, or unless engaged in a business or occupation which
the laws of this state authorize a person less than 16 years of age to perform:
      (1)   Between 11:00 p.m. on Friday and 5:00 a.m. Saturday;
      (2)   Between 11:00 p.m. Saturday and 5:00 a.m. Sunday; and
      (3)   Between 10:00 p.m. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and 6:00 a.m.
on the following day.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a parent, legal guardian or other person to
knowingly permit a person in his or her custody or control to violate divisions
(A) or (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 3-18) Penalty, see §
130.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 720 ILCS 555/1
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
§ 130.030 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   Any person of the age of 17 years and upwards who performs any of the
following acts in a public place commits public indecency, which shall be a
violation of this section:
      (1)   An act of sexual intercourse;
      (2)   An act of deviate sexual conduct;
      (3)   A lewd exposure of the body done with intent to arouse or to
satisfy the sexual desire of the person; or
      (4)   A lewd fondling or caressing of the body of another person of
either sex.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE means any place where
the conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by others.
(Prior Code, § 3-6)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/11-9
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
§ 130.045 NUISANCES GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or maintain the
existence of any nuisance on any property under his, her or its control. For
the purpose of this subchapter, NUISANCE is hereby defined as a highly
obnoxious or annoying thing; something offensive or annoying to individuals or
to the community to the prejudice of their legal rights.
   (B)   The Police Department is hereby authorized to abate any nuisance
existing in the village, whether such nuisances are specifically recognized by
ordinance or not.
(Prior Code, § 3-13) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.046 BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRICALLY CHARGED FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or construct any fence composed in whole or
in part of barbed wire, or with any similar material designed to cause injury
to persons, or any wire charged with electric current, anywhere within three
feet of any public place, street, sidewalk, alley, park or other public way.
(Prior Code, § 3-14) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.047 DENSE SMOKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to cause or permit the emission of dense smoke
from any fire, chimney, engine, oil burner or any other agency in the village
so as to cause annoyance or discomfort to the residents thereof.
   (B)   For the purpose of testing and grading the density of smoke, the
Ringelmann Smoke Chart, as published and used by the United States Geological
Survey, shall be, and is hereby adopted as, a standard for such grading, and
smoke shall be, and is hereby, defined as and declared to be dense when it is
of a degree of number three of said chart, or greater, for more than six
minutes in any one hour whether such period of time is consecutive or not.
(Prior Code, § 3-15) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.048 USE OF SOUND AMPLIFIERS.
   It shall be unlawful to cause or permit to be operated any sound amplifier
or radio so as to cause unnecessary sound audible on any street or other public
place.
(Prior Code, § 3-16) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.049 CLIMBING TELEPHONE POLES.
   No person shall climb upon any telegraph pole, telephone pole, electric
light pole or sign pole, unless in the performance of his or her duties.
(Prior Code, § 3-17) Penalty, see §
130.999
OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC PEACE
§ 130.060 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearms within the village; provided,
however, that this section shall not be construed to prevent any police officer
from discharging a firearm in the performance of his or her duty, nor any
citizen from discharging any firearm when lawfully defending his or her person
or property.
(Prior Code, § 3-8) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.061 UNLAWFUL USE OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of unlawful use of weapons, which shall
be a violation of this section, when he or she knowingly:
      (1)   Sells, manufactures, purchases, possesses or carries any bludgeon,
black-jack, sling-shot, sand-club, sandbag, metal knuckles or any knife,
commonly referred to as a switchblade knife, which has a blade that opens
automatically by hand pressure applied to a button, spring or other device in
the handle of the knife;
      (2)   Carries or possesses with intent to use the same unlawfully against
another, a dagger, dirk, billy, dangerous knife, razor, stiletto, broken bottle
or other piece of glass, or any other dangerous or deadly weapon or instrument
of like character;
      (3)   Carries on or about his or her person or in any vehicle, a tear gas
gun projector or bomb or any object containing noxious liquid gas or substance;
      (4)   Carries concealed in any vehicle or concealed on or about his or
her person except when on his or her land or in his or her own abode or fixed
place of business any pistol, revolver or other firearm;
      (5)   Sets a spring gun;
      (6)   Possesses any device or attachment of any kind designed, used or
intended for use in silencing the report of any firearm;
      (7)   Sells, manufactures, purchases, possesses or carries any weapon
from which more than eight shots or bullets may be discharged by a single
function of the firing device, any shotgun with a barrel less than 18 inches in
length or any bomb, bombshell, grenade, bottle or other container containing an
explosive substance, such as, but not limited to, black powder bombs and
Molotov cocktails;
      (8)   Carries or possesses any firearm or other deadly weapon in any
place which is licensed to sell intoxicating beverages, or at any public
gathering held pursuant to a license issued by any governmental body or any
public gathering at which an admission is charged, excluding a place where a
showing, demonstration or lecture involving the exhibition of unloaded firearms
is conducted; or
      (9)   Carries or possesses in a vehicle or on or about his or her person
any pistol, revolver or firearm, when he or she is hooded, robed or masked in
such manner as to conceal his or her identity.
   (B)   The presence in an automobile other than a public omnibus of any
weapon, instrument or substance referred to in division (A)(7) above is prima
facie evidence that it is in the possession of, and is being carried by, all
persons occupying such automobile at the time such weapon, instrument or
substance is found, except under the following circumstances:
      (1)   If such weapon, instrument or instrumentality is found upon the
person of one of the occupants therein; or
      (2)   If such weapon, instrument or substance is found in an automobile
operated for hire by a duly licensed driver in the due, lawful and proper
pursuit of his or her trade, then such presumption shall not apply to the
driver.
(Prior Code, § 3-9) Penalty, see §
130.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/24-1
§ 130.062 DISCHARGING FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful to fire or discharge any fireworks in the village other
than at an approved public display in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 3-10) Penalty, see §
130.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 425 ILCS 35/2
§ 130.063 AIR GUNS AND SLINGSHOTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot, throw, cast or project, by
means of any slingshot, air gun or other device, any ball, bullet or other
missile or projectile in any place where any person or property is apt to be
struck or in any way injured thereby.
(Prior Code, § 3-11) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.064 MOB ACTION.
   Mob action, which shall be a violation of this section, consists of any of
the following:
   (A)   The use of force or violence disturbing the public peace by two or
more persons acting together and without authority of law;
   (B)   The assembly of two or more persons to do an unlawful act; or
   (C)   The assembly of two or more persons, without authority of law, for the
purpose of doing violence to the person or property of anyone supposed to have
been guilty of a violation of the law, or for the purpose of exercising
correctional powers or regulative powers over any person by violence.
(Prior Code, § 3-12) Penalty, see §
130.999
DRUGS
§ 130.075 ADOPTION OF CANNABIS CONTROL ACT.
   The State Cannabis Control Act, 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq., as amended, is
hereby adopted and incorporated by reference.
(Ord. 1999-1, passed 5-11-1999)
§ 130.076 ADOPTION OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES ACT.
   The State Controlled Substances Act, 720 ILCS 570/100 et seq., as amended,
is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference.
(Ord. 1999-1, passed 5-11-1999)
§ 130.077 ADOPTION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA CONTROL ACT.
   The State Drug Paraphernalia Control Act, 720 ILCS 600/1 et seq., as
amended, is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference.
(Ord. 1999-1, passed 5-11-1999)
§ 130.999 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to the
penalties set forth in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 3-19)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
151.   MANUFACTURED HOUSING AND TRAILER CAMPS
      
152.   SWIMMING POOLS
      
153.   TREES
      
154.   SUBDIVISIONS GENERALLY
      
155.   NEW SUBDIVISIONS
      
156.   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
CHAPTER 150: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
Encroachments
   
150.01   Encroachments generally
   
150.02   Correction of violations by village
   
150.03   Fences and retaining walls
   
150.04   Throwing snow or water on public property
   
150.05   Merchandise on sidewalks
   
150.06   Using public ways for storage
   
150.07   Vehicles scattering load
   
150.08   Substances injurious to persons, animals, vehicles
   
150.09   Scaffolds and ladders
   
150.10   Articles abutting streets
Excavations and Work
   
150.25   Permit required
   
150.26   Application for permit
   
150.27   Bond required
   
150.28   Agreement and approval required
   
150.29   Authorization of permit
   
150.30   Emergency excavations
   
150.31   Duty to repair injured pavement
   
150.32   Failure to repair injured pavement
   
150.33   Liability for damages due to damaged pavement
   
150.34   Safety precautions at excavations
   
150.35   Damaging or removing safety precautions
   
150.36   Duty to remove tools and materials
Sidewalks
   
150.50   Special ordinances ordering construction
   
150.51   Width
   
150.52   Cost of construction
   
150.53   Sidewalks not for private use
 
   
150.99   Penalty
ENCROACHMENTS
§ 150.01 ENCROACHMENTS GENERALLY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ENCROACHMENT. Any building, fence, sign or any other structure or object
of any kind, with the exception of utilities and public road signs, which is
placed, located or maintained in, on, under or over any portion of the roadway
right-of-way.
      ROADWAY RIGHT-OF-WAY. The areas existing or acquired by dedication or by
fee simple for roadway purposes; also, the areas acquired by temporary easement
during the time the easement is in effect.
   (B)   No person shall erect, construct or place any fence, steps, gallery or
other encroachment in whole or part upon any street, alley, sidewalk, parkway
or other public grounds within the village.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or cause to be erected,
to retain or cause to be retained, an encroachment within the limits of the
roadway right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 20-1) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 CORRECTION OF VIOLATIONS BY VILLAGE.
   The Village President is authorized to cause any obstruction, encroachment
or other thing which may be in violation of the provisions of this subchapter
to be removed, repaired to its former condition, refilled or made to comply
with the provisions of this subchapter within a reasonable time after notice is
served upon the owner, agent or person in possession of the premises where such
violation occurs. In case the owner, agent or person in possession cannot be
found, then summarily the Village President shall remove, repair or refill the
same, and the owner, agent or party causing such violation shall pay all
expenses and costs of such removal, repairing or refilling. It shall be
unlawful for any person to wrongfully interfere with such removal, repairing or
refilling.
(Prior Code, § 20-2) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 FENCES AND RETAINING WALLS.
   (A)   Any person who desires to erect or maintain a fence or retaining wall
within the village shall first file an application with the Village Clerk
asking for a permit therefor, which application must set forth the following:
      (1)   The location of the proposed fence or retaining wall;
      (2)   The height of the proposed fence or retaining wall;
      (3)   The type of material which will comprise the proposed fence or
retaining wall; and
      (4)   The distance of the proposed fence from any property line.
   (B)   There shall be a $25 fee for said permit.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain a fence or
retaining wall of any kind which exceeds six feet in height.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain a fence or
retaining wall of any kind which is within five feet of any property line.
(Prior Code, § 20-3) (Ord. passed 11- -1997) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 THROWING SNOW OR WATER ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall cast, throw or place any snow, ice slush or any water in
freezing weather on or along any public property or public right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 20-4) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.05 MERCHANDISE ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person, while receiving or delivering goods, wares or merchandise,
shall permit the same to remain on any sidewalk longer than two hours.
   (B)   For this purpose, he or she shall occupy only so much of the outer
edge of the sidewalk in front of a store or building as will leave an
unoccupied space of at least four feet in width of any such sidewalk for the
use of pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 20-5) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.06 USING PUBLIC WAYS FOR STORAGE.
   Except as permitted in the above section, no person shall use any street,
alley, sidewalk, parkway or other public place for the storage of any goods,
wares or merchandise or any motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 20-6) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.07 VEHICLES SCATTERING LOAD.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be loaded with ashes, cinders, coal, mortar, snow or
similar material so as to scatter such material along the street, avenue or
alley over which the same is being driven. Vehicles shall be so constructed
that when loaded with ashes, cinders, coal, mortar or other similar matter,
they shall not scatter such material along or upon any avenue, street or alley,
over which the same is being delivered.
   (B)   The owner or operator of a vehicle which scatters or otherwise
deposits ashes, cinders, coal, mortar, mud, dirt, construction materials or the
like on any village roadway or property shall remove the same in a prompt
manner. If the owner or operator fails to remove the above referenced
materials, the village shall do so, and the owner or operator shall be charged
a fee of $50.
(Prior Code, § 20-7) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.08 SUBSTANCES INJURIOUS TO PERSONS, ANIMALS, VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit upon any street, alley or other
public place any glass bottle, glass, nails, tacks, cans or any other substance
likely to injure any person, animal or vehicle upon such street, alley or other
public place.
   (B)   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
street, alley or other public place any destructive or injurious material shall
immediately remove the same or cause it to be removed.
   (C)   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a street or
alley shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
street or alley from such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 20-8) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.09 SCAFFOLDS AND LADDERS.
   Any scaffolds or ladders placed in such a position that they overhang or can
fall into any public street, alley or other public place in the village shall
be firmly and properly placed, constructed and safeguarded. It shall be
unlawful to place or leave any tools or articles on any such scaffold or ladder
in such a manner that the same can fall onto such street, sidewalk or other
public place.
(Prior Code, § 20-9) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.10 ARTICLES ABUTTING STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful to place any movable article on any window ledge or
other place abutting upon a public street, alley or other public place at a
height above four feet from the ground in such a manner that the same can or is
in danger of falling onto such street, alley or other public place.
(Prior Code, § 20-10) Penalty, see §
150.99
EXCAVATIONS AND WORK
§ 150.25 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to in any manner alter, dig in, tunnel
or otherwise work in the public streets or public property of the village
without first applying and obtaining a permit for such work.
(Prior Code, § 20-11) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.26 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person desiring to alter, dig in, tunnel or otherwise work in the
streets or other property belonging to the village must first file an
application with the Village Clerk asking for a permit therefor, which
application must set forth the following:
   (A)   The place where the work is to be done;
   (B)   The purpose of the work;
   (C)   The time the work is to start and the time the work is to be
completed;
   (D)   The person doing the work; and
   (E)   The party on whose behalf the work is being done.
(Prior Code, § 20-12)
§ 150.27 BOND REQUIRED.
   There shall be furnished to the Village Clerk a bond with good and
sufficient security in the amount of $1,000 guaranteeing the restoration of the
street where an excavation is being made to its original condition.
(Prior Code, § 20-13)
§ 150.28 AGREEMENT AND APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   No permit required by this subchapter shall be issued for any such work
until an agreement is made with the village providing that the streets or
public property shall be restored to their original condition, and such
agreement shall be approved by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 20-14)
§ 150.29 AUTHORIZATION OF PERMIT.
   No permit shall be issued to excavate, dig, tunnel or otherwise alter the
public streets or public property of the village, unless authorized and
approved by the Village Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 20-15)
§ 150.30 EMERGENCY EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   If in case of an emergency it is necessary to dig or excavate in the
streets, alleys, parking strips or other property belonging to the village so
that any person is unable first to make application to obtain a permit, such
person shall within (20/24) hours after commencing such work, or not later than
the earliest practicable hour following a holiday, make application of a permit
so to do, which application shall, in addition to other matters required in
this subchapter, set forth the circumstances under which the digging or
excavating was done, which application must be obtained in the manner as
provided herein.
   (B)   The application shall, in the judgment of the Village President, show
that an emergency did exist, and, if no emergency is shown to have existed,
then such applicant shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this subchapter,
and the Village Clerk shall refuse the permit.
(Prior Code, § 20-16)
Cross-reference:
   Parking for purposes of sales or non-emergency repairs, see §
71.03
§ 150.31 DUTY TO REPAIR INJURED PAVEMENT.
   If any person shall break or otherwise injure the pavement of any street or
sidewalk, he or she shall, within (20/24) hours thereafter, cause the pavement
to be repaired and mended to the satisfaction of the Village Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 20-17)
§ 150.32 FAILURE TO REPAIR INJURED PAVEMENT.
   Whoever shall injure any pavement of any street, alley or sidewalk or any
part thereof, and shall refuse, neglect or fail to repair the same to its
former condition, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 20-18) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.33 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES DUE TO DAMAGED PAVEMENT.
   Whoever shall cut, open or otherwise damage any pavement of any street,
alley or sidewalk or any part thereof shall be held responsible and liable to
the village for any and all damages to person or property in consequence of
such damage which the village shall suffer or be required to pay.
(Prior Code, § 20-19) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.34 SAFETY PRECAUTIONS AT EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of any person making or maintaining any
excavation in or obstruction to any street, alley or sidewalk to place or erect
adequate railings or barricades to protect the public. Such railings,
barricades, excavations and obstructions shall be adequately lighted at night.
   (B)   The railings, barricades and lights shall be placed, extended and
maintained to the satisfaction and approval of the Village Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 20-20)
§ 150.35 DAMAGING OR REMOVING SAFETY PRECAUTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to injure, destroy or remove any barricade, railing or
light at any obstruction or excavation.
(Prior Code, § 20-21) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.36 DUTY TO REMOVE TOOLS AND MATERIALS.
   Whoever constructs, builds or repairs any street, alley or sidewalk shall
remove all materials, tools, appliances or other articles used in or about the
construction, building or repairing within (20/24) hours from and after the
completion of the construction, building or repairing.
(Prior Code, § 20-22)
SIDEWALKS
§ 150.50 SPECIAL ORDINANCES ORDERING CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   All sidewalks constructed shall be by order of the Board of Trustees
by special ordinances.
   (B)   Each such special ordinance shall define the location of such proposed
sidewalk with a reasonable certainty, shall prescribe its width, the materials
of which it shall be constructed, the grade thereof and shall provide that such
sidewalk shall be constructed in the manner and according to the provisions of
this subchapter and the special ordinance.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1961)
§ 150.51 WIDTH.
   All sidewalks on all streets within the village shall not be laid less than
30 inches in width.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1961)
§ 150.52 COST OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The cost of construction of such sidewalks shall be borne by the
property owners adjoining the public street where the sidewalk is to be
constructed.
   (B)   Where any owner of a lot or parcel of land adjoining any public street
in the city fails to construct a sidewalk along such lot or parcel of ground
when required to do so by ordinance, the city may construct such sidewalk and
collect the costs of such construction by special taxation, special assessment
or any other method prescribed by law.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1961)
§ 150.53 SIDEWALKS NOT FOR PRIVATE USE.
   No part of any sidewalk shall be taken for private use by lowering or
cutting down the same next to the building fronting thereon, or by railing off
the same by any iron or other railing, or otherwise shutting off the public
from using the same, except as provided by any special ordinance.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1961)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
150.01 through
150.10 and
150.25 through
150.36 shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $250 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed for each and every day during
which a violation continues or exists.
(Prior Code, § 20-23)
CHAPTER 151: MANUFACTURED HOUSING AND TRAILER CAMPS
Section
Manufactured Housing
   
151.01   Definition
   
151.02   Requirements for installation
   
151.03   Density
   
151.04   Exemptions
Trailer Camps and Trailers
   
151.15   Purpose
   
151.16   Definitions
   
151.17   Regulations
 
   
151.99   Penalty
MANUFACTURED HOUSING
§ 151.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING. Any structure used for living, sleeping, business or
storage purposes, having no foundation other than wheels, blocks, skids, jacks,
horses or skirting, and which has been or reasonably may be equipped with
wheels or other devices for transporting the structure from place to place,
whether by motorized power or by other means.
(Ord. 19A, passed 7-9-1996)
§ 151.02 REQUIREMENTS FOR INSTALLATION.
   No manufactured housing shall be installed or utilized for residential,
business or storage purposes unless such unit complies with the following
requirements:
   (A)   The unit has been purchased new from a manufacturer or dealer for the
express purpose of conversion to a permanent structure;
   (B)   The unit has not been used for travel occupancy or otherwise
transported over roads or highways except for the purpose of transporting the
unit to the site of permanent installation in the village;
   (C)   The unit is converted from a mobile state by being permanently affixed
to a permanent foundation of cement or other masonry material built into the
earth to below the frost line. Such foundation shall be at least six inches in
width, shall extend one foot above the highest point of the grade, and shall
have a continuous wall with no openings other than access openings for service
work or for windows;
   (D)   The minimum width of the unit shall be 24 feet unless a variance has
been obtained;
   (E)   The maximum length of the unit shall be 75 feet unless a variance has
been obtained;
   (F)   The unit shall have a shingled roof having a minimum of a 3/12 pitch;
and
   (G)   The unit shall have wooden floor joists.
(Ord. 19A, passed 7-9-1996)
§ 151.03 DENSITY.
   There is to be a limit of no more than two manufactured housing units within
one block unless a variance has been obtained.
(Ord. 19A, passed 7-9-1996)
§ 151.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   Trailers which are used by contractors or construction crews as a temporary
site headquarters are exempt from the requirements of §
151.02.
(Ord. 19A, passed 7-9-1996)
TRAILER CAMPS AND TRAILERS
§ 151.15 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is for the purpose of regulating trailer camps and trailers
and the use and location thereof within the village limits.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1969)
§ 151.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TOURIST OR TRAILER CAMP. An area containing one or more structures designed
or intended to be used as temporary living facilities of two or more families
and intended primarily for automobile transients; or providing space where two
or more tents or auto trailers can be parked.
   TRAILER. Any structure used for living, sleeping, business or storage
purposes, having no foundation other than wheels, blocks, skids, jacks, horses
or skirting and which has been or reasonably may be equipped with wheels or
other devices for transporting the structure from place to place, whether by
motive power or other means. The term TRAILER shall include camp car and house
car. TRAILERS, as herein defined, shall not be permitted within the corporate
limits of the village except upon permission expressly granted by resolution or
ordinance of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1969)
§ 151.17 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   At no time shall a tourist or trailer camp be permitted to be located
within the village limits.
   (B)   (1)   No trailer, as defined in this subchapter, shall be located on
any real property, either private or public, within the corporate limits of the
village, from the date of this subchapter except upon permission granted by
resolution or ordinance of the Village Board of Trustees. However, recreational
trailers are allowed temporarily on private property for the purposes of
preparation or winterization, but may not occupy the premises for more than
three days.
      (2)   If the owner of any trailer obtains written permission from the
subdivider of the real estate, if there is a subdivider, or the seller of the
real estate which he or she is to purchase and upon which he or she wishes to
locate a trailer and the written permission of any property owner within 500
feet of the boundaries of the real property on which the trailer is to be
situated, the Board of Trustees may, by resolution or ordinance, grant
permission for the location of the trailer on the site selected by the
applicant.
   (C)   If any trailer now situated on any real property within the village
limits is removed from said real property, no other trailer shall thereafter be
placed on that real property.
   (D)   Any trailer presently on any real property within the village limits
may be replaced by the present owner or occupants of said real estate but by no
one else.
   (E)   No trailer presently situated on any real property within the
corporate limits of the village shall be sold and occupied by the purchasers on
the real estate on which the trailer is now situated.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1969)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects or refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of, any of
the provisions of §§
151.15 through
151.17 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $75 nor more than $250
for each offense. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   In case any person or persons shall violate any provisions of §§
151.15 through
151.17, the village, or any owner of real estate situated within the corporate
limits of the village, may institute any appropriate action or proceeding:
         (a)   To prevent the unlawful use of a trailer;
         (b)   To prevent the occupancy of any trailer; or
         (c)   To restrain, correct or abate the violation.
      (3)   When any such action is instituted by an owner, notice of such
action shall be served upon the village at the time suit is begun, by serving a
copy of the complaints on the chief executive officer of the village, and no
such action may be maintained until such notice has been given.
      (4)   In any such action or proceeding, the court with jurisdiction
thereof has the power and in its discretion may issue a restraining order, or a
preliminary injunction, as well as a permanent injunction, upon such terms and
under such conditions as will do justice and enforce the purpose of this
penalty.
      (5)   If a permanent injunction is decreed in any such action or
proceeding, the court in its decree may, in its discretion, allow the plaintiff
a reasonable sum of money for the services of the plaintiff’s attorney. This
allowance shall be a part of the costs of the litigation assessed against the
defendant and may be recovered as such.
CHAPTER 152: SWIMMING POOLS
Section
   
152.01   Compliance required
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Health and safety requirements for private pools
   
152.04   Location permit required
   
152.05   Location permit fee
   
152.06   Location of pools
   
152.07   Liability of agent or tenant for violation
§ 152.01 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No person shall maintain on any property within the boundaries of the
village a swimming pool for public or private use without complying with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 25-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FENCE. Any structure of wood, metal or other material constituting a
permanent obstruction to the free access to a swimming pool.
   SWIMMING POOL. Any structure, apparatus or excavation of an area of more
than 100 square feet and of a depth of more than two feet.
(Prior Code, § 25-2)
§ 152.03 HEALTH AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR PRIVATE POOLS.
   (A)   A wall or fence enclosure of four feet minimum height shall be
constructed to completely enclose the pool area for all swimming pools built
below the ground level and those built above ground level of less than four
feet in height. These fences shall be equipped with self-closing and self-
latching devices placed in such a manner as to be an effective barrier to small
children.
   (B)   All above ground pools of four feet in height or more need not have an
additional fence or a wall enclosure. Each of these pools, however, shall have
retractable ladders installed in such a way as to be an effective barrier to
small children. It is the responsibility of the owners of said pools to enforce
the provisions of this section and to see that said retractable ladders are
effective barriers to small children.
(Prior Code, § 25-3)
§ 152.04 LOCATION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Prior to the commencement of any construction or installation of a swimming
pool, a location permit shall be secured from the Board of Trustees of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 25-4)
§ 152.05 LOCATION PERMIT FEE.
   The fee for a location permit as required by §
152.04 shall be the same as for other types of construction in the village.
There shall be an additional annual fee of $25.
(Prior Code, § 25-5)
§ 152.06 LOCATION OF POOLS.
   No pool or any attachment thereto shall be constructed, installed or
maintained within ten feet of any property line.
(Prior Code, § 25-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.07 LIABILITY OF AGENT OR TENANT FOR VIOLATION.
   Any person in possession of the property, either as agent or tenant in any
manner or form shall be equally liable with the owners of said property for the
violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 25-7)
CHAPTER 153: TREES
Section
   
153.01   Title
   
153.02   Purpose and intent
   
153.03   Definitions
   
153.04   Application and permit for tree removal/replacement and new street
plantings
   
153.05   Cause for tree removal
   
153.06   Tree removal; liability
   
153.07   Tree Removal/Replacement Fund
   
153.08   Tree planting and care standards
   
153.09   Advertisements or notices
   
153.10   Notices; violations
   153.11   Official street tree list
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be referred to as “the Village Tree
Ordinance”.
 § 153.02 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote and protect the
public health, safety and general welfare by providing for the regulation of
the planting, maintenance and removal of trees, shrubs and other plants upon
village property within the village.
   (B)   Intent. It is the intent of the Board of Trustees of the village, that
the terms of this chapter shall be construed so as to promote:
      (1)   The planting, maintenance, restoration and survival of desirable
trees, shrubs and other plants upon village property within the village; and
      (2)   Protection from personal injury and property damage caused or
threatened by the improper planting, maintenance, or removal of trees, shrubs
or other plants located upon village property within the village.
§ 153.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The owner or contract purchaser of any parcel of land.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. All grounds and right-of-way (ROWs) owned or maintained by
the village.
   PUBLIC TREE. Any tree or woody vegetation on village-owned or village-
maintained property or right-of-way.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation located
on village property.
   TREE COMMITTEE. The organization consisting of two members that oversees all
plantings, care and removal of trees within the village.
   VILLAGE PROPERTY. Property within the village limits, and:
      (1)   Owned by the village; or
      (2)   Implied or expressly dedicated to the public for the use of
vehicular or pedestrian traffic or for public utility easements (including, but
not limited to, road and street rights-of-way, alleys, parkway and terrace
areas).
§ 153.04 APPLICATION AND PERMIT FOR TREE REMOVAL/REPLACEMENT AND NEW STREET
PLANTINGS.
   (A)   The village shall have the exclusive right to remove, replace or plant
new street trees as well as to control the removal, replacement or planting of
street trees. The adjoining property owner shall be responsible for the care
and maintenance of grass and existing street trees as well as for the care and
maintenance of replacement street trees.
   (B)   The property owner shall make a written application to the Village
Clerk for removal or replacement of any street tree located on village property
adjoining that of the property owner, or for the planting of any new street
tree(s) to be located on village property adjoining that of the property owner,
which application shall then be considered in sequential order by the Streets,
Sidewalks, Forestry, Building and Grounds Committee of the village’s Board of
Trustees.
§ 153.05 CAUSE FOR TREE REMOVAL.
   (A)   Good and sufficient cause for tree removal shall be:
      (1)   Diseased or dead trees or limbs;
      (2)   Roots, trunks or limbs injurious or detrimental to sidewalks,
alleys or streets or other traffic thereon; or
      (3)   Roots injurious or detrimental to the operation of utilities,
including, but not limited to, sewer, water, gas, electric and telephone.
   (B)   As a guideline in making their decisions, the Streets, Sidewalks,
Forestry, Building and Grounds Committee shall consider that the trees
exhibiting the greatest hazard shall be the first designated for removal.
§ 153.06 TREE REMOVAL; LIABILITY.
   The actual job of street tree removal shall be done by a professional tree
removal service or contractor who shall demonstrate proof of liability and
damage insurances to the village.
§ 153.07 TREE REMOVAL/REPLACEMENT FUND.
   (A)   An amount of $1,000 shall be allocated from the village General Fund
by the Board of Trustees on an annual basis, which amount shall be designated
the “Tree Removal and Replacement” Fund.
   (B)   The Tree Removal and Replacement Fund and its annual allocation shall
be under the administration of the Streets, Sidewalks, Forestry, Buildings and
Grounds Committee with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   The use of the Tree Removal and Replacement Fund shall be restricted
to the removal and replacement of street trees. If the location of a street
tree is in doubt, the services of a registered land surveyor shall be engaged
and paid for from the Fund. The surveyor’s determination shall be final.
§ 153.08 TREE PLANTING AND CARE STANDARDS.
   (A)   All planting and maintenance of public trees shall conform to the
American National Standards Institute (ANSI) A-300 “Standards for Tree Care
Operations” and shall follow all tree care Best Management Practices (BMPs)
published by the International Society of Arboriculture.
   (B)   The village shall maintain an official list of desirable tree species
for planting on public property in two size classes: Ornamental (20 feet or
less in height at maturity); and shade (greater than 20 feet at maturity).
Trees from this approved list may be planted without special permission; other
species may be planted with approval from the village.
   (C)   The village shall develop and maintain an official set of spacing
requirements for the planting of trees on public property. No tree may be
planted within the visibility triangle of a street intersection or within ten
feet of a fire hydrant.
   (D)   Only trees listed as ornamental trees on the official village tree
species list may be planted under or within 15 lateral feet of any overhead
utility wire.
   (E)   Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street or other public
place in the village in such a way as to impede or interfere with traffic,
travel or the visibility of vehicles, pedestrians or any traffic sign shall be
trimmed by the owner of the abutting premises on which such trees or shrubs
grow so that the obstruction shall cease. A minimum clear, unobstructed space
of eight feet above the surface of a sidewalk and 14 feet above the surface of
a street shall be maintained at all times.
   (F)   Any limb of a tree or growth of a shrub which has become likely to
fall on or across any street, sidewalk or alley shall be removed by the owner
of the premises on which such tree or shrub grows or stands. The Director of
Public Works may trim or cause to be trimmed any such tree or shrub or remove
any such tree or branch thereof so that the obstruction or danger to traffic or
passage shall be eliminated.
   (G)   Any person given the right to maintain poles and wires in the streets,
alleys or other public places in the village shall, in the absence of provision
in the franchise concerning the subject, keep such wires and poles free from
and away from any trees or shrubs in such places so far as may be possible and
shall keep all such trees and shrubs properly trimmed and subject to the
supervision of the Superintendent of Streets, so that no injury shall be done
to the poles or wires or shrubs and trees by contact therewith. The maintenance
of public trees for utility clearance shall conform to all applicable state
laws and utility industry standards.
Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.09 ADVERTISEMENTS OR NOTICES.
   It shall be unlawful to attach any sign, advertisement or notice to any
street tree.
Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.10 NOTICES; VIOLATIONS.
   Any notice as may be required or appropriate under this chapter shall be, if
to a resident property owner, by personal service, and if to a nonresident
property owner, by certified mail, return receipt requested, to said person’s
last known address, coupled with publication at least once in a newspaper of
general circulation within the village. Notice shall be deemed made when served
or mailed and published.
§ 153.11 OFFICIAL STREET TREE LIST.
   (A)   Small trees (30 feet).
      (1)   Flowering Crabapple.
      (2)   Hornbeam, American.
      (3)   Hornbeam, Eastern Hop.
      (4)   Hawthorn (thornless).
      (5)   Maple, Amur.
      (6)   Maple, Japanese.
      (7)   Mountain Ash, European.
      (8)   Purple Leaf Plum.
      (9)   Redbud.
      (10)   Serviceberry.
   (B)   Medium trees (30 to 40 feet).
      (1)   Bradford Pear.
      (2)   Corktree, Amur.
      (3)   Linden, Littleleaf (cultivars).
      (4)   Linden, Redmond.
      (5)   Maple, Norway (cultivars).
      (6)   Maple, Red (cultivars).
      (7)   Maple, Schwelder.
      (8)   Maple, Crimson King.
      (9)   Japanese Pagodatree.
      (10)   Birch, River.
   (C)   Large trees (over 40 feet).
      (1)   Ash, White (cultivars).
      (2)   Ash, Green (cultivars).
      (3)   Basswood.
      (4)   Bald Cypress.
      (5)   Beech, American.
      (6)   Beech, European.
      (7)   Coffeetree, Kentucky.
      (8)   Gingko (male).
      (9)   Hackberry, Common.
      (10)   Honeylocust (thornless).
      (11)   Linden (cultivars).
      (12)   Maple, Sugar (cultivars).
      (13)   Oak, Northern Red.
      (14)   Oak, Bur.
      (15)   Oak, White.
      (16)   Oak, Chinquapin.
      (17)   Yellow Poplar.
      (18)   Horse Chestnut, Common.
   (D)   Shrubs.
      (1)   Yews.
      (2)   Dogwoods.
      (3)   Arborvitaes.
      (4)   Cranberry, High Bush.
      (5)   Junipers.
      (6)   Eyonysus.
      (7)   Viburnums.
      (8)   Mugho Pine.
   (E)   Evergreen trees.
      (1)   Cedar, Eastern Red.
      (2)   Fir, Concolor.
      (3)   Hemlock.
      (4)   Larch, American.
      (5)   Larch, European.
      (6)   Pine, Red.
      (7)   Spruce, Colorado.
      (8)   Spruce, Norway.
      (9)   Spruce, White.
      (10)   Spruce, Serbian.
      (11)   Pine, Austrian.
      (12)   Pine, White.
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be, upon conviction
or plea of guilty, subject to a fine of not less than $75 nor more than $250
for each offense.
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISIONS GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Generally
   
154.002   Definitions
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.015   Organization
   
154.016   Enforcement
   
154.017   Variations and exceptions
   
154.018   Amendments
   
154.019   Fees
   
154.020   Field inspection
General Subdivision Requirements
   
154.035   Requirements generally
   
154.036   Review of subdivisions within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of
the village
   
154.037   Unsuitable land
   
154.038   Dedication of land for public use
   
154.039   Proposed development; designation
   
154.040   Vacation of a plat of subdivision
   
154.041   Land divisions
   
154.042   Provisions for municipal water and sewer service
Procedure for Approval
   
154.055   Purpose
   
154.056   Preliminary consultation
   
154.057   Filing of preliminary plat
   
154.058   Final plat
   
154.059   Application for approval
   
154.060   Drawing specifications
Final Plat
   
154.075   What constitutes a final plat
   
154.076   Application for approval
   
154.077   Final plat contents
   
154.078   Recording of final plat
Design Standards
   
154.090   Generally
   
154.091   Conformance to applicable rules and regulations
   
154.092   Streets, alleys and sidewalks
   
154.093   Easements
   
154.094   Blocks
   
154.095   Lots
   
154.096   Sanitary sewers
   
154.097   Water
   
154.098   Public grounds
Improvements
   
154.110   Required improvements
   
154.111   Restrictions
   
154.112   Dedication
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 GENERALLY.
   (A)   [Missing text].
   (B)   [Missing text].
   (C)   [Missing text].
   (D)   [Missing text].
   (E)   All offerings or dedications of land to the village for uses as
streets, alleys, highways, schools, parks, playgrounds or other public use
shall be referred to the President and Board of Trustees for review and
recommendation before being accepted by the Village Board of Trustees.
   (F)   (1)   Where a tract of land proposed for subdivision is part of a
larger, logical subdivision unit in relation to the village as a whole, the
President and Board of Trustees may, before approval, cause to be prepared a
plan for the entire area or neighborhood, such plan to be used by the Village
Board as an aid to evaluate the merit and the impact of the proposed plat.
      (2)   The Village Board shall have authority to require adjustments in
the plat or plan which are deemed to be in the best interests of the village
and the impact of the subdivision on village facilities and infrastructure.
   (G)   The provisions of this chapter and rules and regulations promulgated
pursuant to this chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements which a
developer shall meet.
   (H)   This chapter, wherever possible, shall be construed consistent with
765 ILCS 205-1 et seq. (also known as the “Plat Act”). In case of conflict, the
Plat Act shall take precedence.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in the present tense shall include the future, and words used in the
singular number shall include the plural number and the plural the singular.
The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   ALLEY. A public or private right-of-way primarily designed to serve as
secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal
frontage is on some other street.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines of waterways
or boundary lines of the village.
   DEVELOPER. Any person or corporation or duly authorized agent who undertakes
the subdivision of land as defined herein.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The drawings and documents presented for tentative
approval. A PRELIMINARY PLAT may be either for a planned unit development or
for a subdivision.
   RATIONAL METHOD. A formula for calculating peak stormwater flow for
watersheds. Q=CIA: Accumulated concentrated flow (Q) at the outlet of a
designated drainage area (A<50 acres) during a rainfall of intensity (I, inch/
hour). C = a constant based on surface condition of the drainage area.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, crosswalk, railroad, electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline,
water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, or for another special use.
      (1)   The usage of the term RIGHTS-OF-WAY for land platting purposes in
the village shall mean that every right-of-way is to be separate and distinct
from the lots or parcels adjoining such rights-of-way, and not included with
the dimensions or areas of such lots or parcels.
      (2)   RIGHTS-OF-WAY intended for streets, crosswalks, water mains,
sanitary sewers, storm drains or any other use involving maintenance by a
public agency shall be dedicated to public use by the maker of the plat on
which such right-of-way is established.
   ROADWAY. A surfaced portion of the street available for vehicular traffic.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM, INDIVIDUAL. A septic tank seepage tile sewage
disposal o system or any other sewage treatment device approved and in
accordance with the rules of the County Health Department.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street or crosswalk way, paved or otherwise
surfaced, and shall be for pedestrian use only.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   STREET. A public right-of-way which affords a primary means of vehicular
access to abutting properties, whether designated as a street, avenue, highway,
road, boulevard, land throughway or however otherwise designated, but excepting
an alley or driveway to buildings.
   STREET, HALF. A street bordering one or more property lines of a tract of
land in which the developer has only allocated a part of the ultimate right-of-
way width and is not permitted by this chapter.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of any parcel of land into two or more parts, any
of which parts is less than five acres, for the purpose of ownership transfer
or building development, or, if a new street is involved, any division of a
parcel of land. The term includes any division of land that attempts to avoid
the requirements of this chapter. Where appropriate to the context, the term
shall relate to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
(Ord. passed - -)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.015 ORGANIZATION.
   The following shall be administered according to the following provisions.
   (A)   The Village Board of Trustees reserves to itself the following
functions:
      (1)   Approval or disapproval of all preliminary and final plats referred
to the Board of Trustees;
      (2)   Approval or disapproval of all variations and exceptions
recommended by the Board of Trustees;
      (3)   Amendment of this chapter when necessary and desirable, as
hereinafter provided;
      (4)   Enforcement of this chapter’s provisions; and
      (5)   Administration of this chapter’s provisions (until such time as a
Village Planning and Zoning Board Plats Committee and plats officer are
appointed).
   (B)   The President and Board of Trustees (the Village Planning and Zoning
Commission) shall administer the provisions of this and shall:
      (1)   Receive all preliminary plats (together with applications); and
      (2)   Forward copies of the preliminary plat to appropriate officers and
agencies for their recommendations, evaluations and reports.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.016 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The village shall defer permit requests for improvements on property
until such time as the plat for such property has been approved and recorded in
the manner provided by this chapter. No building permit shall be granted except
for improvements on land for which a plat has been approved and recorded
according to the requirements of this chapter or on those parcels of property
platted or recorded as separate parcels of property prior to the effective date
of this chapter.
   (B)   The Village Clerk and township assessors are hereby instructed not to
divide for assessment or taxing purposes any properties that are being
subdivided contrary to the rules and regulations as herein set forth, until
such time as the Village Board and the Village Attorney have been notified and
their recommendations made known.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.017 VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   General requirements. Where the President and Board of Trustees finds
that extraordinary hardships or particular difficulties may result from strict
compliance with these regulations, they may recommend variations or exceptions
to the regulations, provided that such variations or exceptions shall not have
the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of this chapter; and further
provided the Village Board shall not recommend variations or exceptions to the
regulations of this chapter unless it shall make findings based upon the
evidence presented to it in such specific case that:
      (1)   The granting of the variation will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health or welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the
neighborhood in which the property is located; and
      (2)   The conditions upon which the request for a variation is based are
unique to the property for which the variation is sought, and are not
applicable, generally, to other property.
   (B)   [Missing text].
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.018 AMENDMENTS.
   [Missing text].
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.019 FEES.
   (A)   [Missing text].
   (B)   (1)   During the course of the application review process, the
developer may be required to provide the village with an additional deposit if
the review of the application has resulted in, or reasonably will result in,
the village incurring fees or expenses that exceed the initial deposit provided
by the developer.
      (2)   The village shall not continue with the review of the application
until said additional deposit is paid by the developer.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.020 FIELD INSPECTION.
   (A)   (1)   All public improvements to be made under the provisions of this
chapter shall be inspected on a regular basis by the developer’s engineer. The
frequency and duration of such inspections shall be adequate to ensure that all
improvements are constructed in strict accordance with the plans and
specifications approved by the village.
      (2)   The developer’s engineer shall provide written certification that
all improvements have been properly installed.
   (B)   The village’s designated officer or employee in charge of public works
and the Village Engineer shall be notified whenever construction is being done
so that they may conduct independent inspections as deemed necessary.
   (C)   The developer shall provide three copies of construction record
drawings of all improvements completed to the village. These drawings shall be
accurately dimensioned. Sanitary sewer manhole rims and invert elevations,
water main locations, water service and sanitary sewer service locations shall
be shown on the construction record drawings.
   (D)   The construction record drawings shall be a condition of final
acceptance of the improvements and release of the surety bond or letter of
credit.
(Ord. passed - -)
GENERAL SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.035 REQUIREMENTS GENERALLY.
   (A)   [Missing text].
   (B)   [Missing text].
   (C)   [Missing text].
   (D)   [Missing text].
   (E)   [Missing text].
   (F)   The village shall not recommend for approval any plat of subdivision
which does not make adequate provisions for municipal water and sewer service
as provided in §
154.042.
   (G)   The village shall not recommend for approval any plat of subdivision
which does not make adequate provision for the impact of the subdivision on the
village’s infrastructure, including, but not limited to, transportation,
traffic flow, parking, curbs and gutters and sidewalks.
   (H)   The village shall not recommend for approval any plat of subdivision
which does not make adequate provisions for the transportation of excess
stormwaters.
   (I)   No lot, tract or parcel of land within any subdivision shall be
offered for sale, nor shall any sale, contract for sale or option be made or
given, until such subdivision plans have been formally approved by the
President and Board of Trustees.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.036 REVIEW OF SUBDIVISIONS WITHIN THE EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION OF
THE VILLAGE.
   (A)   The village shall make use of all extraterritorial jurisdiction
granted by state law and shall examine all subdivision plats within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village.
   (B)   The intent of such examination will be to assure that subdivisions
located in the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village conform to current
village standards for subdivision of lands.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.037 UNSUITABLE LAND.
   (A)   No land shall be subdivided for residential use which is held by the
village, after investigation by the Village Engineer, to be unsuitable for such
use by reason of flooding or bad drainage, adverse earth or rock formation or
topography, or any other feature likely to be harmful to the health, safety or
welfare of the future residents in the proposed subdivision or of the
community.
   (B)   However, the subdivision of land which is subject to stream overflow
may be permitted if the special requirements described in Chapter 6 have been
completed or proper assurance given that they will be completed subject to
approval by the Village Engineer.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.038 DEDICATION OF LAND FOR PUBLIC USE.
   When a final plat of a subdivision has been approved by the Village Board of
Trustees and all other required approvals are obtained and the plat is
recorded, that approval shall constitute acceptance for the purpose designated
on the plat of all lands shown on the plat as dedicated to the public,
including street dedication.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.039 PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT; DESIGNATION.
   [Missing text] proposed development and a tentative schedule of
construction. Failure on the part of the public agency to initiate acquisition
within the prescribed 12 months shall result in the removal of the “reserved”
designation from the property involved and the freeing of the property for
development.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.040 VACATION OF A PLAT OF SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Any plat or any part of a plat may be vacated by the owner of the
premises, at any time before the sale of any lot therein, by a written
instrument, to which a copy of such plat shall be attached, declaring the same
to be vacated.
   (B)   (1)   Such an instrument shall be approved by the Village Board of
Trustees in like manner as plats of subdivisions. The Village Board of Trustees
may reject any such instrument which abridges or destroys any public rights in
any of its streets or alleys.
      (2)   Such an instrument shall be executed, acknowledged or proved, and
recorded or filed in the like manner as plats of subdivision; and being duly
recorded or filed shall operate to destroy the force and effect of the
recording of the plat so vacated, and to divest all public rights in the
streets, alleys and public grounds, and all dedications laid out or described
in such plat.
   (C)   When lots have been sold, the plat may be vacated in the manner herein
provided by all the owners of lots in such plat joining in the execution of
such writing. The provisions of 765 ILCS 205-1 “Plats and Surveys” are also
applicable.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.041 LAND DIVISIONS.
   (A)   Subdivision. The provisions of this chapter apply to any division of
land into two or more parts, any of which is less than five acres in area, the
plat of which includes new public streets or easements or the widening of
existing public streets or easements for access or utility purposes, providing
however, that the following shall not be considered a subdivision and shall be
exempt from the requirements herein:
      (1)   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of five
acres or more in size which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access;
      (2)   The division of lots or blocks of less than one acre in any
recorded subdivision which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access, provided further that the width of the lot at the building setback line
will not be less than that of other recorded lots fronting on the same street
within the same block; or
      (3)   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining
and contiguous land.
   (B)   [Missing text].
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.042 PROVISIONS FOR MUNICIPAL WATER AND SEWER SERVICE.
   [Missing text].
(Ord. passed - -)
PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL
§ 154.055 PURPOSE.
   (A)   (1)   Any person hereafter subdividing any parcel of land, block, lot
or sub-lot or any part thereof in the village, or outside its corporate limits
but within one and one-half miles thereof, shall make a map or plat thereof:
and, before recording the same in the County Recorder’s office, shall submit it
with a duplicate thereof, to the President and Board of Trustees for approval
or rejection.
      (2)   No such map or plat shall be approved as aforesaid until the same
shall have been properly certified by a surveyor and acknowledged by the owner.
      (3)   If approved, such approval shall be certified thereon and signed by
the President and attested by the Clerk; and no such map or plat shall be valid
or entitled to record until it shall have been approved as aforesaid.
   (B)   In planning and developing a subdivision within the corporate limits
of the village, the developer shall respect the following procedure.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.056 PRELIMINARY CONSULTATION.
   Prior to the submission of a preliminary plat of any proposed subdivision
within the jurisdiction of the village, the developer shall make known his or
her intentions to the President and Board of Trustees (village). During this
preliminary or preapplication stage, the following actions shall be taken.
   (A)   Action by the developer. The developer shall meet informally with the
President and/or Village Engineer for the purpose of presenting a general
outline of his or her proposal, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   [Missing text]; and
      (2)   [Missing text].
   (B)   [Missing text].
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.057 FILING OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The developer shall prepare a preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision
in accordance with the requirements of §§
154.059 and
154.060 and shall file with the President and/or Village Engineer an
application in writing for the tentative approval of said plat accompanied by a
reproducible subdivision drawing and five black and white prints or other
acceptable reproductions at least 20 days prior to the meeting of the Village
Board at which action is desired.
   (A)   Action by the President and/or Village Engineer. The President and/or
Village Engineer shall transmit copies of the preliminary plat to the Village
Engineer and other village officials and other agencies as deemed necessary by
the Village Board for their recommendations. These recommendations in respect
thereto shall be submitted to the Village Board not later than five days before
the meeting at which the preliminary plat will be reviewed.
   (B)   Action by the Planning Commission.
      (1)   A preliminary plat shall be reviewed by the Village Board to
determine its conformity to this chapter, the comprehensive land use plan (once
created and enacted) and all other ordinances and regulations in force which
affect subdivisions.
      (2)   Upon submission of the preliminary plat to the Village Board, the
Village Board shall schedule a public hearing giving not less than 15 days’
notice. Each hearing shall be conducted and the records of the proceedings and
hearing shall be made and preserved in a manner and according to such
procedures as the Village Board shall prescribe from time to time by its rules.
      (3)   (a)   The Village Board shall, within 45 days of the receipt of an
application for the approval of a preliminary plat, approve or disapprove the
plat, or approve it with modifications, noting thereon any changes that will be
required.
         (b)   If agreed to by the developer, the time may be extended for no
more than 30 days after which one copy shall be returned to the developer with
the date of the approval or disapproval, and the reason therefor, accompanying
the plat.
      (4)   (a)   If the preliminary plat as originally submitted, or as
changed or modified, as required by the Village Board, meets the requirements
of this chapter, the Village Board shall give it tentative approval. Within 30
days of receipt of the preliminary plat, the Village Board shall approve or
disapprove the plat.
         (b)   If the preliminary plat is disapproved, objections to it shall
be noted and it shall be returned to the developer; if it is approved, the
Village Clerk shall affix his or her signature to it with the notation that it
has received Village Board approval and it shall then be returned to the
developer for compliance with final approval requirements.
   (C)   Action by the developer.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the final plat approval by the Village Board of
Trustees, the developer shall record the plat with the County Recorder’s Office
within 90 days of the date of the Village Board of Trustees action and provide
proof of recording to the Village Clerk.
      (2)   Failure to record the final plat within 90 days will void the
Village Board of Trustees action and necessitate reinstitution of the final
plat procedure in accordance with the provisions of §
154.058.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.058 FINAL PLAT.
   [Missing text].
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.059 APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL.
   The owner or his or her agent shall file a “declaration of intent to
subdivide” on forms furnished by the Village Board and this shall be
accompanied by the preliminary plat which contains the following information:
   (A)   Declaration of intent. The declaration of intent to subdivide shall
take the following form.
 
I,            owner/sponsor/optionee of a parcel of land described as follows:
 
(General description, subdivision name, location by section, township and range,
reference to roads)
 
hereby formally announce my intention to subdivide said property and to submit a
preliminary plat of the subdivision to the Village Board within six months of this date.
 
Signed this            day of            , 20            
 
Signature                                 
 
   (B)   Name for file identification.
      (1)   Name of subdivision if property is within an existing subdivision;
      (2)   Proposed name if not within a previously platted subdivision. The
proposed name shall not duplicate the name of any plat previously recorded in
the county; and
      (3)   Name of property if no subdivision name has been chosen. This is
commonly the name by which the property is locally known.
   (C)   Location and description of property. Location of property by
government lot, section, township, range and county; and
   (D)   Basic facts and proposals pertaining to the property.
      (1)   Size of tract in gross and net acres and existing lots, if any, in
square feet;
      (2)   Existing zoning classification of property and any rezoning
proposed to be requested; and
      (3)   Number of lots proposed in subdivision.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.060 DRAWING SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   [Missing text];
   (B)   [Missing text];
   (C)   [Missing text];
   (D)   [Missing text];
   (E)   [Missing text];
   (F)   The exact length and bearing of the exterior boundaries of the
subdivision. Dimensions shall be expressed in feet and decimals of a foot;
   (G)   Location and names of adjacent subdivisions and owners of adjoining
parcels of unsubdivided land;
   (H)   Zoning on and adjacent to the subdivision;
   (I)   Location, width and names of all existing and platted streets, alleys
and other public ways and easements, railroad and utility rights-of-way, parks,
cemeteries, watercourses, drainage ditches, permanent buildings, bridges and
other pertinent data as determined by the Village Board;
   (J)   The water elevations of adjoining lakes or streams at the date of the
survey and the approximate high and low water elevations of such lakes or
streams. All elevations shall be referred to the USGS datum plane;
   (K)   If the subdivision borders a lake, river or stream, the distances and
bearings of a meander line established not less than 20 feet back from the
ordinary high-water mark of such waterway;
   (L)   If a major course lies adjacent to or transverses the property, it
should be necessary for the registered engineer to submit cross-section,
drainage easements, building setback lines and supporting calculations based
upon 100-year flood history;
   (M)   Layout, width, grades and proposed names of all new streets and
rights-of-way, including alleys, highways, easements for sewers and water mains
and other public utilities;
   (N)   Existing sewers, water mains, culverts and other underground
structures within the tract or immediately adjacent thereto. The location and
size of the nearest water main and sanitary and storm sewers are to be
indicated in a general way upon the preliminary plat;
   (O)   Plans of proposed utility layouts (water, sewers and storm drains)
showing connections to any existing or proposed utility systems;
   (P)   Approximate dimensions and areas of lots. All lots over one acre in
size shall have the area marked within the lot;
   (Q)   Proposed building setback lines; and
   (R)   Approximate radii of all curves, length of tangents and central angles
on all streets.
(Ord. passed - -)
FINAL PLAT
§ 154.075 WHAT CONSTITUTES A FINAL PLAT.
   A final plat may constitute only a portion of the area contained in the
approved preliminary plat; provided, that the public improvements constructed
in the area covered by the plat are sufficient by and of themselves to
accomplish a proper development and to provide adequately for the health,
safety and convenience of the proposed residents therein and for adequate
access to contiguous areas.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.076 APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL.
   Written application by the owner or his or her agent for approval, on forms
furnished by the Village Board, shall accompany each final plat and contain the
following information:
   (A)   Name of subdivision (which is subject to approval by the Village Board
of Trustees and should be cleared with the Village Board prior to submission of
the plat) and description of blocks and lots included on plat;
   (B)   Location of subdivision by government lot, section, township, range
and county;
   (C)   Name, date of approval and file number of the preliminary plat upon
which the final plat is based;
   (D)   Zoning classification of the property;
   (E)   Total number of lots and/or parcels included on the plat; and
   (F)   Total area (gross area) shown on the plat, including streets and total
area dedicated to public use if any.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.077 FINAL PLAT CONTENTS.
   (A)   [Missing text].
      (1)   [Missing text];
      (2)   [Missing text];
      (3)   [Missing text];
      (4)   [Missing text];
      (5)   [Missing text];
      (6)   [Missing text];
      (7)   (a)   The length of boundary lines of all streets, alleys, blocks,
lots, parcels, public grounds, easements and rights-of-way or enough
information so that the length of these lines can be derived by simple
calculations.
         (b)   Where a boundary line is an arc of a circle, the length of the
chord shall be shown;
      (8)   The widths of all streets, alleys, easements and rights-of-way;
      (9)   A graphic presentation of the minimum building setback lines on all
lots and parcels and a notation of the distance between such lines and the
street right-of-way line;
      (10)   The area of each lot or parcel containing an area of one acre or
more;
      (11)   The words “private road” clearly marked on all streets shown on
the plat which are not dedicated to public use;
      (12)   Abutting street lines of adjoining subdivisions, shown in their
correct locations by dashed lines;
      (13)   The exact width of all easements, streets and alleys;
      (14)   All lake or stream shore meander lines established by the surveyor
in accordance with division (D) below, the distance and bearings thereof and
the distance between the point of intersection of such meander lines with lot
lines and the ordinary high-water mark;
      (15)   (a)   The number of degrees and minutes in all exterior boundary
and block angles. When such angles are between a curve and its tangent, the
angle shown shall be that between the tangent and the main chord of the curve.
         (b)   When between curves of different radii, the angle between the
main chord; and
      (16)   When strict compliance with a provision of this section will
entail undue or unnecessary difficulty or tend to render the plat more
difficult to read, and when the information on the plat is sufficient for the
exact retracement of the measurements and bearings or other necessary
dimensions, the Village Board, upon the recommendations of the Village
Engineer, may waive such strict compliance.
   (B)   Name, location and position. The name of the subdivision shall be
printed on the plat in prominent letters, and the following information
relating to the position and location of the subdivision shall be shown
thereof:
      (1)   The location of the subdivision by government lot recorded private
claim, quarter section, section, township, range and county noted immediately
under the name given the subdivision; and
      (2)   The exact location of the subdivision, indicated by distances and
bearings with reference to a corner or corners established in the U.S. public
land survey.
   (C)   [Missing text].
   (D)   [Missing text].
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.078 RECORDING OF FINAL PLAT.
   To entitle a final plat to be entered in the proper record books in the
office of the County Recorder, the following certificates, together with the
certificate of approval of the Village Board of Trustees, shall accompany it.
These certificates shall be lettered or printed legibly on the face of the
final plat. The following certificates and affidavits shall appear on the final
plat. They must be duly signed by the appropriate person before the plat is
entitled to record.
   (A)   Certification by surveyor.
 
I,                      a Professional Land Surveyor in the State of Illinois, hereby certify that, at the request of
                . I have caused an accurate survey to be made of the property described above as
                                                      . I further certify that a 5/8 inch reinforcing bar has been placed at each
lot corner, at each block corner and points of curve in the street, and that concrete monuments have been set or found at the
locations indicated on the plat. I further certify that the accompanying plat is a true and correct representation of said survey,
and the dimensions shown are given in feet and decimals of a foot upon said plat.
 
I hereby further certify that                  is located in the Special Flood Hazard Zone                  identified for the
Village of Davis, Illinois, by the Federal Emergency Management Agency on the Flood Insurance Rate Map, Panel
No.             , dated                  
Signed at                  Illinois this                  day of                  A.D., 20         .
 
                                                      
   Illinois Professional Land Surveyor
   No.                 
 
   (B)   Certification of dedication by the owner of the land.
 
“As owner, I hereby certify that I have caused the land described in the
foregoing affidavit of the surveyor, to be surveyed, divided and mapped as
presented on this plat. All streets, alleys, walkways, parks, playgrounds and
school sites shown on this plat are hereby dedicated to the public for public
purposes, and all easements shown are subject to the easement provisions
hereon.”
Owner                  
Address:                  
 
   (C)   [Missing text].
   (D)   [Missing text].
   (E)   (1)   [Missing text] equipment installed on said easement, but same
may be used for gardens; shrubs, landscaping and other purposes that do not
then or later interfere with the aforesaid uses or the rights therein granted.
      (2)   If the grade of the subdivided property must be so altered or if
storm and sanitary sewer facilities require that the underground utility be
moved or otherwise altered, the owners, their respective successors and
assigns, shall reimburse the utility company for the necessary expense
involved.
   (F)   Certification by the Village Engineer.
 
“All required improvements, including, but not limited to, streets, sidewalks, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, water mains and
drainage structures have been built as required, or have been provided for by bond contract or irrevocable letter of credit to
my approval.”
Approved this                  day of                  , 20                  .
 
                                  
Signature   Seal
 
   (G)   Certification by President.
 
“This is to certify that the Village Board of the Village of Davis did, at its meeting on the                  day of
                 20                  A.D. approve the plat.”
 
                  
President
 
   (H)   Certification by Village Clerk.
 
“This is to certify that the Village Board of Trustees of the Village of Davis did, at its meeting on the
                 day of                  A.D., 20                  , approve the plat and authorize it to be
recorded.”
 
“In witness whereof, I                  ,Village Clerk of the Village of Davis hereunto set my hand and
affixed the seal of said Village of Davis, this                  day of A.D., 20                  .”
 
“I hereby further certify that the drainage report required by Chapter 109, Paragraphs 1 and 2 of the
Illinois Revised Statutes is on file in my office.”
 
 
                                   
Village Clerk   Seal
 
(Ord. passed - -)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 154.090 GENERALLY.
   No improvements, including, but not limited to, water supply, drainage,
sewage disposal, gas services, electric service or lighting, grading, paving or
surfacing of streets shall be made within any such subdivision, by any owner or
owners or his, her or their agent, or by any public service corporation at the
request of such owner or owners or his, her or their agent, until the plans for
the subdivision, and also the plans for such improvements, have been formally
approved by the President and Board of Trustees (Village Board).
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.091 CONFORMANCE TO APPLICABLE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   In addition to the design standards established herein, all subdivision
plats shall comply with the following laws, ordinances, rules and regulations:
   (A)   The provisions of 24 ILCS;
   (B)   The village zoning ordinance and all other applicable ordinances of
the appropriate jurisdictions;
   (C)   The requirements of the County Health Department and the State
Department of Public Health in relation to lot size and lot elevation if the
subdivision is not served by public water or by a public sewer and provision
for one or both of these services has not been made; and
   (D)   The rules of the State Department of Transportation relating to safety
of access and the preservation of the public interest and investment in the
streets if the subdivision or any lot contained therein abuts a state trunk
highway or connecting street.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.092 STREETS, ALLEYS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   [Missing text].
   (B)   [Missing text].
   (C)   Railroad and highways. Railroad rights-of-way and limited access
highways where so located as to affect the subdivision of adjoining lands shall
be treated as follows.
      (1)   In residential districts, a buffer strip at least 25 feet in depth
in addition to the normal depth of the lot required in the district shall be
provided adjacent to the railroad right-of-way or limited access highway. This
strip shall be part of the platted lots and shall be designated on the plat:
“This strip is reserved for the planting of trees and shrubs by the owner. The
placement of structures hereon is prohibited.”
      (2)   In districts zoned for business, commercial or industrial uses, the
nearest street extending parallel or approximately parallel to the railroad
shall, wherever practicable, be at a sufficient distance there from to ensure
suitable depth for commercial or industrial sites.
      (3)   Streets parallel to the railroad when intersecting a street which
crosses the railroad at grade shall, to the extent practicable, be at a
distance of at least 150 feet from the railroad right-of-way.
      (4)   Such distance shall be determined with due consideration of the
minimum distance required for future separation of grades by means of
appropriate approach gradients.
   (D)   Access to major streets. Where a subdivision borders on or contains an
existing or proposed major street, the Village Board may require that access to
such streets be limited. The number of residential streets entering a major
street shall be kept to a minimum.
   (E)   Street (residential).
      (1)   All improvements shall conform to the best engineering standards.
Due consideration shall be given throughout to the appearance of the
subdivision and the various features thereof within its own boundaries, and
also in its environment in the village.
      (2)   The following minimum standards shall apply to the design of
residential streets.
Design speed (mph)           30
Minimum center line radius   250 feet
Pavement width               36 feet
Right-of-way                 66 feet
Sidewalk distance from R-O-W 1
Sidewalk width               5
Type of curb                 *
* Combination concrete curb and gutter, IDOT Standard M-6.18.
 
      (3)   Minimum curb radius shall be 25 feet. In any case where more
dedication is deemed necessary to provide safe sight distance or for traffic
channelization, the Village Board may specify a greater cutoff than the normal
cited above. Alley intersections and abrupt changes in alignment within a block
shall have the corners cut off, in accordance with standard engineering
practice, to permit safe vehicular movement.
      (4)   Where the grade of any street at the approach of an intersection
exceeds 5%, a leveling area shall be provided having not greater than 4% grade
a distance of 25 feet, measured from the nearest right-of-way line of
intersecting street.
      (5)   Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever
practical. In no case shall the vertical alignment within the intersection area
exceed 4%.
      (6)   Where any street intersection will involve earth banks or existing
vegetation inside any lot corner that would create a traffic hazard by limiting
visibility, the developer shall cut such ground and/or vegetation (including
trees) in connection with the grading of the public right-of-way to the extent
deemed necessary to provide an adequate sight distance.
   (F)   [Missing text].
   (G)   [Missing text].
   (H)   [Missing text].
   (I)   [Missing text].
   (J)   [Missing text].
   (K)   Street names. All street names are to be approved by the Village Board
and the U.S. Post Office prior to final map approval. No street names shall be
used which will duplicate or be confused with the names of existing streets.
New streets which are extensions of or obviously in alignment with existing
streets shall bear the name of the existing streets.
   (L)   Street paving.
      (1)   Designated surface treatments shall meet the specifications of the
State Department of Transportation. All construction methods and materials
shall conform to the applicable sections of the Standard Specifications for
Road & Bridge Construction in Illinois, latest edition.
      (2)   Proper grade and detailed standards for construction shall be
approved by the Village Engineer. Frost-free bank run sand and gravel, or
comparable granular material, shall be used for all a minimum of one year, or
such greater time as maybe specified by the Village Engineer before an
impervious surface is applied over a roadbed.
      (3)   [Missing text].
   (M)   Alleys. Alleys shall not be required in residential areas.
   (N)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   Concrete sidewalks of a width not less than five feet and four
inches thick shall be installed on both sides of all streets and thoroughfares
except in subdivisions with lots of not less than 20,000 square feet in area,
where the installation of sidewalks or minor streets may be waived. Where
sidewalks cross driveways, the sidewalk shall be six inches thick reinforced.
      (2)   The developer shall install and pay for perimeter sidewalks and/or
bike paths along all public routes as part of the required public improvements.
The location, design and installation of perimeter sidewalks are to be approved
by the village. Perimeter sidewalks shall be either constructed of concrete
five feet wide or not less than four and one-half inches thick, or of two
inches of bituminous over a minimum of eight inches of aggregate and ten feet
wide. A cash equivalent, subject to acceptability and approval of the village,
may be substituted in lieu of the perimeter sidewalks.
   (O)   Stormwater drainage system. The purpose of this division (O) is to
diminish threats to public health, safety and welfare caused by runoff of
excessive stormwater from new development and redevelopment. This excessive
stormwater could result in the inundation of damageable properties, the erosion
and destabilization of downstream channels and the pollution of valuable stream
and lake resources.
      (1)   Compliance with other ordinances and regulations. All drainage
design shall be in compliance with applicable and current statutes of the state
and with the applicable and current ordinances of the county. Where this
division (O) is more restrictive than those referenced in this section, the
requirements of this division (O) shall govern.
      (2)   Storm sewer design. The storm sewer system shall be separate and
independent of the sanitary sewer system. All storm sewers shall be designed by
the rational method on the basis of a minimum of a ten-year recurrence
frequency storm and shall be sized to adequately carry flows from the tributary
areas. Inlets shall be provided so that surface water is not earned across or
around any intersection in the gutter. Surface water drainage patterns shall be
shown for each and every lot and block. Copies of the design computations,
together with drawings showing the storm sewer layout and drainage areas shall
be submitted to the Village Engineer for review.
      (3)   Detention pond design. Inflow hydrograph: For tributary areas of
less than or equal to 50 acres, the rational method may be used. The Soil
Conservation Services, Urban Hydrology for Small Watersheds (TR-55) may be used
for areas up to 50 acres and shall be used for areas greater than 50 acres.
Rainfall data shall be taken from the State Water Survey, Bulletin 70, latest
edition.
      (4)   [Missing text].
      (5)   [Missing text].
      (6)   [Missing text].
      (7)   Stormwater drainage report. A stormwater drainage report shall be
submitted showing the details of the overall stormwater design as detailed
above. The report shall be neat, typed and signed by a registered professional
engineer.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.093 EASEMENTS.
   In all new residential subdivisions, all utilities, community action cables,
electrical and telephone distributions systems, or any other commercial
service, shall be laid underground, including storm, water, gas, drainage and
sewer.
   (A)   Easements for electrical, telephone, gas and cable television services
shall be a minimum of ten feet wide and be established where practicable at the
rear of each lot and along other such lot lines as to provide continuity of
alignment from block to block; to be installed underground within easements or
dedicated public ways. Sanitary sewer and water main easements shall be 20 feet
wide. Underground streetlight supply lines should be designated on the plat and
necessary easements provided to furnish access to such positions. Easement
provisions as set forth in §
154.078(E) should appear on the face of each final plat.
   (B)   Utility easements not less than five feet wide for all utilities other
than sanitary sewer and water, and ten feet wide for sanitary sewer and water,
should be provided on each side of all rear lot lines and where necessary,
along side lot lines. An easement provision, as set forth in §
154.078(E) shall appear on the face of each final plat.
   (C)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way,
channel or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater easement or drainage
right-of-way conforming substantially to the lines of such watercourse and of
such width or construction or both as will be adequate for the purpose.
Wherever possible, it is desirable that the drainage be maintained by an open
channel with landscaped banks and adequate width for maximum potential volume
of flow.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.094 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Residential blocks.
      (1)   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two tiers of lots
of appropriate depths. Exceptions of this prescribed block width shall be
permitted in blocks adjacent to major streets, railroads or waterways.
      (2)   The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be such as are
appropriate for the locality and the type of development contemplated, but
block length in residential areas shall not exceed 1,200 feet nor be less than
400 feet in length. Blocks over 800 feet in length shall have one crosswalk not
less than ten feet in width, situated near the center of the block.
   (B)   [Missing text].
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.095 LOTS.
   [Missing text].
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.096 SANITARY SEWERS.
   (A)   General requirements. Sanitary sewers serving all lots shall be
provided. They shall have sufficient capacity to serve the needs of the areas
being developed and of all adjacent areas that would logically be served by
extensions of such sewers. They shall be located and constructed so as to form
part of an integrated system.
      (1)   Material. Sewers shall be constructed using polyvinyl chloride pipe
(PVC) meeting either ASTM D3034 or D2241 and SDR 35 or 26 watermain quality,
with joints meeting ASTM D3212 and D3139 respectively. Any substitutions shall
be approved by the Village Engineer prior to approving the plans.
      (2)   Minimum size. Sewer mains, eight inches; sewer service lines, four
inches for single-family residential, six inches for all others.
      (3)   Depth. Sanitary sewers shall be installed at such depth as to give
not less than five feet of cover. They shall be deep enough to provide gravity
drainage from basements where practicable.
      (4)   Location. Sanitary sewer shall normally be located at or near the
center of a traffic lane. At the time the mainline sewer is laid, the sewer
service lines shall be installed to serve all lots in the subdivision. Sewer
service lines shall be extended three feet beyond the property line and shall
normally be located near the middle/center of the lot’s front width, and
maintain an 18-inch vertical and ten-foot horizontal separation from the water
service line. They shall be laid at a minimum of 1%, but not more than 9%. All
sanitary sewers shall conform to the specifications and requirements of the
village and shall extend to the farthest extents of the development plat or
public right-of-way.
      (5)   Backflow prevention valves. Existing topographical features may
require the need for backflow prevention valves. At time of tentative plat
submittal, the Village Engineer will determine whether backflow prevention
valves shall be required. If required, a backflow preventer valve shall be
installed on sanitary sewer service lines for each lot by a properly licensed
plumbing contractor. A clean-out shall be installed on the street-side of the
valve. Also, no driveway shall be built over the sewer service line.
      (6)   Manholes. Manholes shall be of standard design. They shall be
spaced not more than 400 feet apart.
   (B)   [Missing text].
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.097 WATER.
   (A)   [Missing text].
   (B)   [Missing text].
      (1)   [Missing text].
      (2)   [Missing text].
      (3)   Depth. Water mains shall be installed at such depth as to give not
less than five and one-half feet of cover.
      (4)   Location.
         (a)   Water mains shall normally be located as to maintain an 18-inch
vertical and a ten-foot horizontal separation from the sanitary sewer mainline.
At the time the water main is laid, the water service lines shall be installed
to serve all lots in the subdivision.
         (b)   Water service lines shall be extended three feet beyond the
property line and shall normally be located near the middle/center of the lot’s
front width, and maintain an 18-inch vertical and ten-foot horizontal
separation from the sanitary sewer service line. They shall be laid as to
maintain a five and one-half feet of cover.
         (c)   All water mains shall conform to the specifications and
requirements of the village and shall extend to the farthest extents of the
development plat or public right-of-way.
      (5)   Fire hydrants. Fire hydrants shall be located so as to be within
200 feet of all homes and shall be of manufacture approved by the village with
auxiliary valves and boxes.
      (6)   Valve boxes. Water service valve boxes are to be located at the
back of sidewalk and inside the property line, wherever possible, or at a
location approved by the village in advance of installation. All valves (except
hydrant auxiliary valves) shall be enclosed in valve boxes.
      (7)   Existing water mains. All new subdivisions shall connect to
existing water main systems if existing water mains are within 1,000 feet of
the subdivision; or determination has been made by the Board of Trustees that
an interim central-water supply facility is necessary pending future expansion
of water main lines.
      (8)   Construction. The water mains, hydrants and water services shall be
installed to comply with the regulations and specifications of the state and
the village, and at the developer’s expense.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.098 PUBLIC GROUNDS.
   (A)   An area of at least 3.5% of the total and unimproved residential area
to be subdivided shall be designated as public site or open space and indicated
on the tentative plat of any residential subdivision.
   (B)   A cash equivalent, subject to acceptability and approval of the
village, may be substituted in lieu of land requirement.
(Ord. passed - -)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 154.110 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   The developer, at his or her own expense, shall provide all improvements
required by this subchapter in the manner prescribed by this section prior to
the recording of any lots or the sale of any lots or property within the
platted subdivision.
   (A)   Required improvements.
      (1)   The developer shall install street and utility improvements, and
other improvements indicated on the plat, as hereinafter provided. If such
improvements are not installed as required at the time the final plat is
submitted for approval, the developer shall, before the recording of his or her
plat enter into a contract with the village agreeing to install the required
improvements.
      (2)   The developer shall file, with said contract, a bond or irrevocable
letter of credit meeting the approval of the Village Attorney and/or a
certified check in an amount equal to the estimate of cost prepared by the
developer’s engineer and approved by the Village Engineer or the contract bid
price as submitted to the developer by a reputable contractor. Such bond, or
irrevocable letter of credit, or check, shall constitute a guarantee that such
improvements will be completed by the developer or his or her subcontractors
not later than one year from the date of recording of the plat, and that
repairs necessitated by defects in material or workmanship will be made during
the period not to exceed two years from and after completion of such
improvements.
   (B)   [Missing text].
   (C)   [Missing text].
   (D)   [Missing text].
   (E)   [Missing text].
   (F)   Monuments.   The developer shall place permanent reference monuments
in the subdivision as required herein and as approved by the Village Engineer.
      (1)   The external boundaries of a subdivision shall be monumented in the
field by iron pins at least 36 inches long and five-eighths inch in diameter.
      (2)   All lot corners, internal boundaries, block corners and each end of
all curves shall be monumented in the field by monuments as described above.
      (3)   All such monuments shall be set in such a manner that they will not
be removed by frost.
      (4)   In each platted subdivision, there shall be set a minimum of two
concrete monuments, not less than 36 inches in length, not less than four
inches square or five inches in diameter, and marked on top with a cross, brass
plug, iron rod or other durable material securely embedded. These monuments
shall be placed near opposite ends of the subdivision.
      (5)   All monuments shall be properly set in the ground by a registered
state professional land surveyor.
   (G)   Street trees. Street trees having a trunk diameter (measured 12 inches
above the ground level) of not less than two and one-half inches may be planted
along all residential streets where trees do not exist. Only oak, honey locust,
hard maples, ginkgo or other long-lived shade trees acceptable to the Village
Board of Trustees may be planted.
   (H)   Other improvements. It is also desirable to install other improvements
such as electric lines, gas mains and similar facilities in any subdivision.
Whenever the Village Board of Trustees deems it necessary, it may require that
any such improvements shall be installed before the plat is approved.
   (I)   Topsoil. Topsoil shall not be removed from the residential lots or
used as spoil but shall be redistributed so as to provide at least six inches
of cover on the lots and at least four inches of cover between sidewalks and
curbs and shall be stabilized by seeding or planting.
   (J)   Landscaping. All parkways and unimproved portions of dedicated street
areas shall be graded and seeded.
   (K)   Streetlights. The developer shall install and pay for one streetlight
at every intersection and spaced not more than 400 feet apart. The design,
location and installation of all street lighting shall be consistent with
current village requirements, are subject to the approval of the village and
shall be of the same type throughout all phases of the subdivision, unless
otherwise approved by the village. Any decorative street lighting proposed by
developer shall be reviewed and approved by the village prior to installation.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.111 RESTRICTIONS.
   [Missing text].
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.112 DEDICATION.
   [Missing text].
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   A person who disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with or resists
the enforcement of any of the zoning provisions of this chapter shall be fined
not less than $100 nor more than $750. Upon written notification that a
violation of this chapter exists, the person notified shall have 15 days to
eliminate such violation and/or comply with this chapter. Each day such
violation or failure to comply is permitted to exist after the expiration of
such 15-day period shall constitute a separate offense. The Village Board of
Trustees may extend such 15-day period in such cases as it deems necessary.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 155: NEW SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
155.01   Purpose and interpretation
   
155.02   Definition
   
155.03   Approval of plans required
   
155.04   Copy of plat
   
155.05   Custody of plats
   
155.06   Taxes
   
155.07   Requirement of plans
   
155.08   Improvements in general
   
155.09   Costs paid by subdivider
   
155.10   Deposit required; application review
   
155.11   Required improvements
   
155.12   Specific requirements for streets and lots
   
155.13   Public grounds
   
155.14   Restrictions
   
155.15   Dedication
   
155.16   Subdivisions outside corporate limits
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 PURPOSE AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be minimum
requirements, adopted to promote the health, safety and the convenience of the
public and to lessen congestion and further the orderly layout and use of land.
   (B)   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal or impair any existing
easement, covenant or agreement between parties, or permits previously adopted
or issued pursuant to the ordinances or resolutions of the village and the
state statutes; provided, however, that where this chapter imposes a greater
restriction upon the development of land than required by other rules,
regulations or permits, the provisions of this chapter shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 19-1)
§ 155.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a parcel of land into two or more parts, any of
which parts is less than five acres, said division being for the purpose of
ownership transfer or building development.
(Prior Code, § 19-2)
§ 155.03 APPROVAL OF PLANS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No land shall be subdivided and no street or other public space shall
be laid out within the village until the plans for such subdivision or street
or other public space have been approved by the President and Board of
Trustees. Such approval must be in writing or stamped on such plans. Such plans
shall first be submitted to the Zoning Board of Appeals for its recommendation
to the President and Board of Trustees.
   (B)   No lot, tract or parcel of land within any subdivision shall be
offered for sale, nor shall any sale, contract for sale or option be made or
given, until such subdivision plans have been formally approved by the
President and Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 19-3)
§ 155.04 COPY OF PLAT.
   Any person hereafter subdividing any parcel of land, block, lot or sub-lot
or any part thereof in the village, or outside its corporate limits but within
one and one-half miles thereof, shall make a map or plat thereof, and before
recording the same in the County Recorder’s office, shall submit it with a
duplicate thereof, to the President and Board of Trustees for approval or
rejection. No such map or plat shall be approved as aforesaid until the same
shall have been properly certified by a surveyor and acknowledged by the owner.
If approved, such approval shall be certified thereon and signed by the
President and attested by the Clerk; and no such map or plat shall be valid or
entitled to record until it shall have been approved as aforesaid.
(Prior Code, § 19-4)
§ 155.05 CUSTODY OF PLATS.
   The duplicate of such plat shall be kept on file with the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 19-5)
§ 155.06 TAXES.
   There shall be no delinquent taxes or assessments against the property
within the subdivision at the time the plat is approved.
(Prior Code, § 19-6)
§ 155.07 REQUIREMENT OF PLANS.
   All plans for the subdivision of land and the laying out of streets and
other public places shall conform to the following.
   (A)   All plans submitted for approval shall be in triplicate, drawn to a
scale of not more than 100 feet to the inch, and shall be clearly and neatly
drawn. Preliminary or tentative plans may be first submitted before the final
plans are prepared.
   (B)   All final plans shall indicate the proposed street line, sidewalk
lines, lot lines, building lines and all property or subdivision boundaries.
   (C)   In accordance with an accurate land survey, the final plans shall also
indicate the controlling points and lines around and within the subdivision
itself, and also by distance, bearings and angles, the relation of such
controlling survey points within or near the village.
   (D)   All survey monuments shall be indicated, and there shall be at least
one permanent monument placed at each property corner of the subdivided area,
and at least one at each street intersection. Such monuments shall be placed
when the surveys are made and shall consist of one-inch iron pipe driven at
least two feet into the ground and preferably embedded in concrete.
   (E)   Sufficient topography shall be shown to indicate the natural drainage
and the probable finished grades of streets.
   (F)   All existing and proposed streets and alleys and other public places
shall be shown, with the width and type of pavement or surfacing, and all other
important features.
   (G)   Sufficient information shall be drawn to scale on the plans to
indicate the relation of the proposed streets and other public places in the
present street system of the village.
   (H)   The dimensions of all lots, subdivisions and re-subdivisions of lots
shall be indicated.
   (I)   The proposed use of each lot, or group of lots, or subdivision, shall
be indicated. No lot shall be proposed for use of a classification other than
as permitted in the zoning ordinance.
   (J)   The north point and scale shall be shown, and the names and addresses
of the petitioner and of the engineer or surveyor shall be given on each plan.
   (K)   Whenever improvements are proposed within any such subdivision or in
any such street or other public place, detailed plans, profiles and at least
outline specifications of such improvements shall be likewise submitted in
triplicate. Such plans and specifications shall show or indicate every
essential detail of such improvements.
(Prior Code, § 19-7)
§ 155.08 IMPROVEMENTS IN GENERAL.
   No improvements, including, but not limited to, water supply, drainage,
sewage disposal, gas services, electric service or lighting, grading, paving or
surfacing of streets shall be made within any such subdivision, by any owner or
owners or his, her or their agent, or by any public service corporation at the
request of such owner or owners or his, her or their agent, until the plans for
the subdivision, and also the plans for such improvements, have been formally
approved by the President and Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 19-8)
§ 155.09 COSTS PAID BY SUBDIVIDER.
   All costs pertaining to the subdivision shall be paid by the subdivider.
(Prior Code, § 19-9)
§ 155.10 DEPOSIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION REVIEW.
   (A)   In order to cover the costs of plat examination and other expenses
incidental to the approval of a subdivision, the subdivider shall pay to the
village a deposit of $5,000 at the time of application for approval of a
tentative plat.
   (B)   (1)   The village shall not commence review of the application until
said deposit is paid by the subdivider. The actual costs or fees that the
village incurs in reviewing the subdivider’s application, including, but not
limited to, engineering, consulting, attorney or other professional fees,
filing, recording or publication costs shall be deducted from said deposit.
      (2)   The balance of the deposit, less the amounts deducted by the
village for actual fees and costs incurred in the course of reviewing the
application, shall be refunded to the subdivider upon approval of the final
plat, or the last portion thereof, or at such time as the subdivider withdraws
the application.
      (3)   Upon request, the village shall provide to the subdivider copies of
receipts for any amounts deducted from the deposit.
   (C)   During the course of the application review process, the subdivider
may be required to provide the village with an additional deposit if the review
of the application has resulted in, or reasonably will result in, the village
incurring fees or expenses that exceed the initial deposit provided by the
subdivider. The village shall not continue with the review of the application
until said additional deposit is paid by the subdivider.
(Ord. passed 5-14-2002)
§ 155.11 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   To be approved, each subdivision must meet the following minimum
requirements.
   (A)   Sewers.
      (1)   All new subdivisions shall be supplied with central water and sewer
facilities where:
         (a)   Water and sanitary sewer connections are reasonably available to
the proposed lots from existing mains;
         (b)   Existing water mains of the village are within 1,000 feet of the
subdivision;
         (c)   Existing sanitary sewers are within 1,000 feet of the
subdivision which may be connected to the system within the subdivision by
gravity sewers; or
         (d)   Determination has been made by the Board of Trustees that an
interim central water supply and/or sewage disposal facility is necessary
pending future extensions of water and sewer lines.
      (2)   Sanitary sewers shall be installed to comply with the regulations
and specifications of the state and the village.
   (B)   Water. When required by the President and Board of Trustees under the
provisions of this chapter, water mains to furnish community water shall be
constructed throughout the entire subdivision, and such mains, hydrants,
fittings and method of construction shall be in accordance with the
requirements of the village. Necessary fire hydrants shall be furnished by the
subdivider.
   (C)   Street improvements. All residential streets shall be suitably graded
to provide proper drainage and shall be not less than 30 feet in width.
Further, said streets shall have a gravel or crushed stone base having a
minimum compacted thickness of eight inches with a bituminous mat of no less
than two inches.
   (D)   Public utilities. All utility lines for telephone, electric and gas
service shall be placed in easements or dedicated public ways. All transformer
boxes shall be located so as not to be unsightly or hazardous to the public.
   (E)   Sidewalks. Concrete sidewalks of a width of not less than four feet
and four inches thick shall be installed on both sides of all streets and
thoroughfares except in subdivisions with lots of not less than 20,000 square
feet in area, where the installation of sidewalks or minor streets may be
waived.
   (F)   Landscaping. All parkways and unimproved portions of dedicated street
areas shall be graded and seeded. Street trees having a trunk diameter of not
less than two and one-half inches and of a species and variety approved by the
Board of Trustees may be planted along all streets where trees do not exist.
   (G)   Street lighting and markings. Provisions and installation shall be
made for the adequate lighting and name markers of public streets within the
proposed subdivision in accordance with the standards and requirements
established by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 19-10)
§ 155.12 SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS FOR STREETS AND LOTS.
   (A)   The minimum width for any street shall be 30 feet except by special
permit for purely local drives.
   (B)   All streets and other public places and easements shall conform to the
official plans, both as to location and as to width or size.
   (C)   When adjoining undeveloped property, a half street may be dedicated.
The minimum width of any alley, wherever provided, shall be 16 feet. Where
alleys are not provided, then ten feet easements shall be required along lot
lines of, or across, lots where necessary for the extension of water mains,
sewers and similar purposes.
   (D)   No block shall be longer than 1,200 feet between street lines. Blocks
over 800 feet in length shall have one crosswalk not less than ten feet in
width, situated near the center of the block.
   (E)   The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provision
for the direct continuation of the principal existing streets in adjoining
subdivisions (or their proper projection where adjoining property is not
subdivided) insofar as they may be necessary for public requirements. In
general, such streets shall be a width at least as great as the existing
streets. The street and alley arrangement must also be such as to provide
opportunity for access and use by adjoining property owners. Wherever a street
is stub-ended so that it will not at that end open into another street, an
adequate turnaround shall be provided.
   (F)   No lots shall be subdivided nor indicated for sale as business lots or
industrial lots except at places designated for these uses on the zoning
ordinance or general development plan of the village, and the front street line
of all such business lots shall be placed not less than 54 feet from the center
of the street on which they front.
   (G)   All lots shall be sufficiently wide and deep to permit full conformity
with the provisions contained in this chapter and in the zoning ordinance.
   (H)   At important intersections and at all acute corners, the property
corner shall be rounded or cut off.
   (I)   All curb corners shall have radii of not less than 12 feet, and at
important corners, not less than 24 feet.
   (J)   Grades of streets shall be the lowest grades feasible, and no grade
shall be in excess of 5% on through traffic streets nor in excess of 10% on any
other street.
   (K)   Whenever streets or alleys are paved or surfaced, such paving or
surfacing shall be of a type and strength suitable for the volume and character
of traffic to be expected.
   (L)   All improvements shall conform to the best engineering standards. Due
consideration shall be given throughout to the appearance of the subdivision
and the various features thereof within its own boundaries, and also in its
environment in the village.
(Prior Code, § 19-11)
§ 155.13 PUBLIC GROUNDS.
   Each subdivision plat shall designate such areas as may be needed for school
sites, park sites or other public lands as from time to time determined by the
President and Board of Trustees. Land so designated cannot be used for any
other purpose for one year following the approval of the plat; if such land is
not acquired by purchase or condemnation by the appropriate board or commission
within one year after approval, it may be used in any manner consistent with
the ordinances applicable thereto.
(Prior Code, § 19-12)
§ 155.14 RESTRICTIONS.
   A copy of the restrictions, if any, pertaining to or affecting the use of
the property within the subdivision shall be furnished to the village before
final approval of the subdivision plan.
(Prior Code, § 19-13)
§ 155.15 DEDICATION.
   The subdivider shall furnish to the village an effective dedication of all
streets, and other public spaces to be dedicated, and of all easements provided
by the subdivision plan or plans.
(Prior Code, § 19-14)
§ 155.16 SUBDIVISIONS OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any subdivision of land
outside the corporate limits of the village but within one and one-half miles
of the village limits.
(Prior Code, § 19-15)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of
not less than $75 nor more than $250, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 19-16)
CHAPTER 156: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
Section
   
156.01   Purpose and scope
   
156.02   Definitions
   
156.03   Regulation of small wireless facilities
   
156.04   Dispute resolution
   
156.05   Indemnification
   
156.06   Insurance
§ 156.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the village’s jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the village exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Act.
   (B)   Conflicts with other ordinances. This chapter supersedes all
ordinances or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict
herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
   (C)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws
or regulations.
(Ord. 2019-2-1, passed 2-12-2019)
§ 156.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing or mechanical
codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local amendments to
those codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant to the village for a permit
to collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Cable service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6), as
amended; information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53), as amended;
mobile service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53), as amended; or wireless
service other than mobile service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator, as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
522(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
§ 153(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
153(51), as amended; or a wireless provider.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FEE. A one-time charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT or HISTORIC LANDMARK. A building, property or site, or
group of buildings, properties or sites that are either listed in the National
Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for listing by the
Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been delegated the
authority by the federal agency to list properties and determine their
eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with §§ VI.D.1.a.i through
VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement codified at 47 C.F.R. part
1, Appendix C; or designated as a locally landmarked building, property, site
or historic district by an ordinance adopted by the village pursuant to a
preservation program that meets the requirements of the certified local
government program of the State Historic Preservation Office or where such
certification of the preservation program by the State Historic Preservation
Office is pending.
   LAW. A federal or state statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order
or local ordinance or resolution.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE. A utility pole owned or operated by the village in
public rights-of-way.
   PERMIT. A written authorization required by the village to perform an action
or initiate, continue or complete a project.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust or other entity or organization.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. The functional division of the federal government, the
state, a unit of local government or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this state, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical or other emergency services to respond
to and manage emergency incidents.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.
      (1)   The area on, below or above a public roadway, highway, street,
public sidewalk, alley or utility easement dedicated for compatible use.
      (2)   RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include village-owned aerial lines.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY.
      (1)   A wireless facility that meets both of the following
qualifications: each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an imaginary
enclosure of no more than six cubic feet; and all other wireless equipment
attached directly to a utility pole associated with the facility is
cumulatively no more than 25 cubic feet in volume.
      (2)   The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not
included in the calculation of equipment volume: electric meter; concealment
elements; telecommunications demarcation box; ground-based enclosures;
grounding equipment; power transfer switch; cut-off switch; and vertical cable
runs for the connection of power and other services.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part
by a communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control or a similar function.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
equipment associated with wireless communications; and radio transceivers,
antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power supplies and
comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
      (1)   WIRELESS FACILITY includes small wireless facilities.
      (2)   WIRELESS FACILITY does not include: the structure or improvements
on, under or within which the equipment is collocated; or wireline backhaul
facilities, coaxial or fiber optic cable that is between wireless support
structures or utility poles or coaxial; or fiber optic cable that is otherwise
not immediately adjacent to or directly associated with an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the state that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but is
acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the village.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
(Ord. 2019-2-1, passed 2-12-2019)
§ 156.03 REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Permitted use. Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
division (C)(9) below regarding height exceptions or variances, but not subject
to zoning review or approval if they are collocated:
      (1)   In rights-of-way in any zoning district; or
      (2)   Outside rights-of-way in property zoned exclusively for commercial
or industrial use.
   (B)   Permit required. An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from
the village to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be
received and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following
conditions and requirements.
      (1)   Application requirements. A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the village, together with the village’s small cell
facilities permit application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
         (a)   Site specific structural integrity and, for a municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in § 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
         (b)   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
         (c)   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer,
as that term is defined in § 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
         (d)   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         (e)   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved;
         (f)   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant’s
knowledge; and
         (g)   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the village, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      (2)   Application process. The village shall process applications as
follows.
         (a)   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
         (b)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or replacement of an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the village fails to
approve or deny the application within 90 days after the submission of a
completed application. However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the
permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the
village in writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no
sooner than 75 days after the submission of a completed application. The permit
shall be deemed approved on the latter of the ninetieth day after submission of
the complete application or the tenth day after the receipt of the deemed
approved notice by the village. The receipt of the deemed approved notice shall
not preclude the village’s denial of the permit request within the time limits
as provided under this chapter.
         (c)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the village fails to approve or
deny the application within 120 days after the submission of a completed
application. However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the village in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than
105 days after the submission of a completed application. The permit shall be
deemed approved on the latter of the one hundred and twentieth day after
submission of the complete application or the tenth day after the receipt of
the deemed approved notice by the village. The receipt of the deemed approved
notice shall not preclude the village’s denial of the permit request within the
time limits as provided under this chapter.
         (d)   The village shall deny an application which does not meet the
requirements of this chapter. If the village determines that applicable codes,
ordinances or regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein require that the utility pole or
wireless support structure be replaced before the requested collocation,
approval shall be conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or
wireless support structure at the cost of the provider. The village shall
document the basis for a denial, including the specific code provisions or
application conditions on which the denial is based, and send the documentation
to the applicant on or before the day the village denies an application. The
applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the village and resubmit the
revised application once within 30 days after notice of denial is sent to the
applicant without paying an additional application fee. The village shall
approve or deny the revised application within 30 days after the applicant
resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure to resubmit the
revised application within 30 days of denial shall require the application to
submit a new application with applicable fees, and recommencement of the
village’s review period. The applicant must notify the village in writing of
its intention to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved
basis, which may be submitted with the revised application. Any review of a
revised application shall be limited to the deficiencies cited in the denial.
However, this revised application does not apply if the cure requires the
review of a new location, new or different structure to be collocated upon, new
antennas or other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless
facility.
         (e)   Within 30 days after an approved permit to collocate a small
wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the village and the applicant
shall enter into a master pole attachment agreement, provided by the village
for the initial collocation on a municipal utility pole by the application. For
subsequent approved permits to collocate on a small wireless facility on a
municipal utility pole, the village and the applicant shall enter into a
license supplement of the master pole attachment agreement.
      (3)   Completeness of application. Within 30 days after receiving an
application, the village shall determine whether the application is complete
and notify the applicant. If an application is incomplete, the village must
specifically identify the missing information. An application shall be deemed
complete if the village fails to provide notification to the applicant within
30 days after all documents, information and fees specifically enumerated in
the village’s permit application form are submitted by the applicant to the
village. Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the village sends the
notice of incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing
information.
      (4)   Tolling. The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
         (a)   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the
village; or
         (b)   A local, state or federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
      (5)   Consolidated applications.
         (a)   An applicant seeking to collocate small wireless facilities
within the jurisdiction of the village shall be allowed, at the applicant’s
discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a single permit for
the collocation of up to 25 small wireless facilities if the collocations each
involve substantially the same type of small wireless facility and
substantially the same type of structure.
         (b)   If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities,
the village may remove small wireless facility collocations from the
application and treat separately small wireless facility collocations for which
incomplete information has been provided or that do not qualify for
consolidated treatment or that are denied. The village may issue separate
permits for each collocation that is approved in a consolidated application.
      (6)   Duration of permits. The duration of a permit shall be for a period
of not less than five years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent
durations unless the village makes a finding that the small wireless facilities
or the new or modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable village
codes or any provision, condition or requirement contained in this chapter. If
the Act is repealed as provided in § 90 therein, renewals of permits shall be
subject to the applicable village code provisions or regulations in effect at
the time of renewal.
      (7)   Means of submitting applications. Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the village by personal
delivery at the village’s designated place of business, by regular mail
postmarked on the date due or by any other commonly used means, including
electronic mail.
   (C)   Collocation requirements and conditions.
      (1)   Public safety space reservation. The village may reserve space on
municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the village’s
electric utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the village reasonably
determines that the municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
      (2)   Installation and maintenance. The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
chapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contracts that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
      (3)   No interference with public safety communication frequencies. The
wireless provider’s operation of the small wireless facilities shall not
interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for public safety
communications. A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of
the type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a
public safety agency’s communications equipment. Unacceptable interference will
be determined by and measured in accordance with industry standards and the
FCC’s regulations addressing unacceptable interference to public safety
spectrum or any other spectrum licensed by a public safety agency. If a small
wireless facility causes such interference, and the wireless provider has been
given written notice of the interference by the public safety agency, the
wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy the interference in a
manner consistent with the abatement and resolution procedures for interference
with public safety spectrum established by the FCC, including 47 C.F.R. §§
22.970 through 22.973 and 47 C.F.R. §§ 90.672 through 90.675. The village may
terminate a permit for a small wireless facility based on such interference if
the wireless provider is not in compliance with the Code of Federal Regulations
cited herein. Failure to remedy the interference as required herein shall
constitute a public nuisance.
      (4)   Collocation with utility poles. The wireless provider shall not
collocate small wireless facilities on village utility poles that are part of
an electric distribution or transmission system within the communication worker
safety zone of the pole or the electric supply zone of the pole. However, the
antenna and support equipment of the small wireless facility may be located in
the communications space on the village utility pole and on the top of the
pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless provider complies with
applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole. For the purpose of
this division (C)(4), the terms COMMUNICATIONS SPACE, COMMUNICATION WORKER
SAFETY ZONE, and ELECTRIC SUPPLY ZONE have the meanings given to those terms in
the National Electric Safety Code as published by the Institute of Electrical
and Electronics Engineers.
      (5)   Compliance with codes. The wireless provider shall comply with all
applicable codes and local code provisions or regulations that concern public
safety.
      (6)   Written design standards. The wireless provider shall comply with
written design standards that are generally applicable for decorative utility
poles, or reasonable stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements that are
set forth in a village ordinance, written policy adopted by the village, a
comprehensive plan or other written design plan that applies to other occupiers
of the rights-of-way, including on a historic landmark or in a historic
district.
      (7)   Alternate placements. Except as provided in this section, a
wireless provider shall not be required to collocation small wireless
facilities on any specific utility pole, or category of utility poles, or be
required to collocate multiple antenna systems on a single utility pole.
However, with respect to an application for the collocation of a small wireless
facility associated with a new utility pole, the village may propose that the
small wireless facility be collocated on an existing utility pole or existing
wireless support structure within 100 feet of the proposed collocation, which
the applicant shall accept if it has the right to use the alternate structure
on reasonable terms and conditions, and the alternate location and structure
does not impose technical limits or additional material costs as determined by
the applicant. If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the village,
the applicant shall provide written certification describing the property
rights, technical limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does
not satisfy the criteria in this division (C)(7).
      (8)   Height limitations. The maximum height of a small wireless facility
shall be no more than ten feet above the utility pole or wireless support
structure on which the small wireless facility is collocated. New or
replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on which small
wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
         (a)   Ten feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the village, that is located within
300 feet of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure
and that is in the same right-of-way within the jurisdictional boundary of the
village, provided the village may designate which intersecting right-of-way
within 300 feet of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structures
shall control the height limitation for such facility; or
         (b)   Forty-five feet above ground level.
      (9)   Height exceptions or variances. If an applicant proposes a height
for a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on
which the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant
shall apply for a special use permit in conformance with procedures, terms and
conditions set forth in Chapter 13 of the zoning ordinance.
      (10)   Contractual design requirements. The wireless provider shall
comply with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the village and
a private property owner that concern design or construction standards
applicable to utility poles and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-
of-way.
      (11)   Ground-mounted equipment spacing. The wireless provider shall
comply with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
      (12)   Undergrounding regulations. The wireless provider shall comply
with local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding
requirements that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of
existing utility poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the
requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses requests
to install such new utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do
not prohibit the replacement of utility poles.
      (13)   Collocation completion deadline. Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within 180 days after issuance of the permit, unless
the village and the wireless provider agree to extend this period or a delay is
caused by make-ready work for a municipal utility pole or by the lack of
commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided the wireless
provider has made a timely request within 60 days after the issuance of the
permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the additional time to
complete installation does not exceed 360 days after issuance of the permit.
Otherwise, the permit shall be void unless the village grants an extension in
writing to the applicant.
   (D)   Application fees. Application fees are imposed as follows.
      (1)   The applicant shall pay an application fee of $650 for an
application to collocate a single small wireless facility on an existing
utility pole or wireless support structure, and $350 for each small wireless
facility addressed in a consolidated application to collocate more than one
small wireless facility on existing utility poles or wireless support
structures.
      (2)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $1,000 for each small
wireless facility addressed in an application that includes the installation of
a new utility pole for such collocation.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of state law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
      (4)   The village shall not require an application, approval or permit,
or require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
         (a)   Routine maintenance;
         (b)   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the village at least ten days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with division (B)(1)(d) above; or
         (c)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
      (5)   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the village to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
   (E)   Exceptions to applicability. Nothing in this chapter authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
      (1)   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled
by the village or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
      (2)   Property owned, leased or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the State Highway Code; or
      (3)   (a)   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under § 18c-7201
of the State Vehicle Code, Metra commuter rail or any other public commuter
rail service, or an electric utility as defined in § 16-102 of the Public
Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail
service or electric utility. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to an
electric or gas public utility or such utility’s wireless facilities if the
facilities are being used, developed and maintained consistent with the
provisions of § 16-108.5(i) of the Public Utilities Act.
         (b)   For the purposes of this division (E)(3), PUBLIC UTILITY has the
meaning given to that term in § 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in
this chapter shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement to
obtain a franchise or a state-issued authorization to offer cable service or
video service or to obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain
or operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities
subject to this chapter.
   (F)   Pre-existing agreements.
      (1)   Existing agreements between the village and wireless providers that
relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities in the right-of-way,
including the collocation of small wireless facilities on village utility
poles, that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for all small
wireless facilities collocated on the village’s utility poles pursuant to
applications submitted to the village before June 1, 2018, subject to
applicable termination provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into
after June 1, 2018, shall comply with this chapter.
      (2)   A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the village
on the effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the
village makes available under this chapter for the collocation of small
wireless facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the
collocation of small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application
submitted two or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying
the village that it opts to accept such rates, fees and terms.\
         (b)   The existing agreement remains in effect, subject to applicable
termination provisions, for the small wireless facilities the wireless provider
has collocated on the village’s utility poles pursuant to applications
submitted to the village before the wireless provider provides such notice and
exercises its option under this division (F)(2).
   (G)   Annual recurring rate.
      (1)   A wireless provider shall pay to the village an annual recurring
rate to collocate a small wireless facility on a village utility pole located
in a right-of-way that equals $200 per year or the actual, direct and
reasonable costs related to the wireless provider’s use of space on the village
utility pole.
      (2)   If the village has not billed the wireless provider actual and
direct costs, the fee shall be $200 payable on the first day after the first
annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to
collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
   (H)   Abandonment.
      (1)   A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous
period of 12 months shall be considered abandoned. The owner of the facility
shall remove the small wireless facility within 90 days after receipt of
written notice from the village notifying the wireless provider of the
abandonment.
       (2)   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, by the village to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within 90 days
of such notice, the village may remove or cause the removal of such facility
pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for municipal utility
poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by
other law for removal and cost recovery.
      (3)   A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the village if
it sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the
village. Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new
wireless provider.
(Ord. 2019-2-1, passed 2-12-2019)
§ 156.04 DISPUTE RESOLUTION.
   The county circuit court shall have exclusive jurisdiction to resolve all
disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act. Pending
resolution of a dispute concerning rates for collocation of small wireless
facilities on municipal utility poles within the right-of-way, the village
shall allow the collocating person to collocate on its poles at annual rates of
no more than $200 per year per municipal utility pole, with rates to be
determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 2019-2-1, passed 2-12-2019)
§ 156.05 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the village harmless
against any and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage
resulting from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of
the village improvements or right-of-way associated with such improvements by
the wireless provider or its employees, agents or contractors arising out of
the rights and privileges granted under this chapter and the Act.
   (B)   A wireless provider has no obligation to indemnify or hold harmless
against any liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the sole
negligence of the village or its employees or agents. A wireless provider shall
further waive any claims that they may have against the village with respect to
consequential, incidental or special damages, however caused, based on the
theory of liability.
(Ord. 2019-2-1, passed 2-12-2019)
§ 156.06 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider’s own cost
and expense, the following insurance:
      (1)   Property insurance for its property’s replacement cost against all
risks;
      (2)   Workers’ compensation insurance, as required by law; or
      (3)   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on the village improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum
protection limits consistent with its requirements of other users of village
improvements or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and
property damage.
   (B)   The wireless provider shall include the village as an additional
insured on the commercial general liability policy and provide certification
and documentation of inclusion of the village in a commercial general liability
policy prior to the collocation of any wireless facility.
   (C)   A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance
coverage and limit requirement required by the village. A wireless provider
that self-insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to
comply with the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this
section. A wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the
village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure
the insurance coverage limits required by the village.
(Ord. 2019-2-1, passed 2-12-2019)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Cites Code Section
ILCS Cites                 Code Section
5 ILCS 5/1-2-1             10.99
5 ILCS 5/1-2-1.1           10.99
5 ILCS 70/1.01             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.02             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.03             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.04             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.05             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.07             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.08             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.09             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.10             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.11             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.12             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.15             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.16             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.17             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.20             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.24             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.28             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.29             10.02
5 ILCS 70/2                10.04
5 ILCS 120/2.02            31.03;
                           31.17
5 ILCS 120/2.03            31.03;
                           31.17
5 ILCS 120-1 et seq.       31.03
5 ILCS 425 et seq.         34.01
5 ILCS 425/1 et seq.       34.04;
                           34.05
5 ILCS 425/35              34.02
5 ILCS 425/83              34.01
24 ILCS                    154.091
35 ILCS 205/162            32.02
35 ILCS 215/1              32.05
50 ILCS 200/1              31.38
50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.      33.02
50 ILCS 705/8.2            33.03
50 ILCS 710/1 et seq.      33.02
65 ILCS 5                  10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.      10.99
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2            10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1            31.30
65 ILCS 5/1-2-2            31.31
65 ILCS 5/1-2-3            31.37
65 ILCS 5/1-2-4            31.35
65 ILCS 5/1-2-5            31.36
65 ILCS 5/1-3-1            31.38
65 ILCS 5/3-5-1 et seq.    30.02
65 ILCS 5/3-10-1           30.51
65 ILCS 5/3-14-3           30.04
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5         30.03;
                           31.03
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-40        30.05;
                           30.36
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50        30.24;
                           31.02
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-55        30.24
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-5         30.20
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-10        30.20
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-20        30.21;
                           30.36
65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-5         31.02
65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-10        31.02
65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-90        30.35
                           30.50;
65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5         30.65;
                           33.02
65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-20        33.09
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-5         30.21
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-10        30.07
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-20        30.21
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-30        30.21
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-35        30.23
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-35(b)     31.03
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-55        30.53
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-90        30.36
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-5         31.03
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-10        31.03
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-20        31.17
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-25        31.03
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-30        31.03;
                           31.16
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-40        31.32
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-45        31.33
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-50        31.34
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-55        31.34
65 ILCS 5/3.1-45-5         31.01;
                           31.03
65 ILCS 5/3.1-45-10        30.66
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-5         30.06;
                           31.04
                           30.06;
                           30.22;
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-10        30.37;
                           30.52;
                           31.04
65 ILCS 5/4-1-1 et seq.    31.16;
                           31.33
65 ILCS 5/5-1-1 et seq.    31.16
65 ILCS 5/8-1-1 et seq.    31.35
65 ILCS 5/8-1-1            32.01
65 ILCS 5/8-1-6            32.04
65 ILCS 5/8-2-9            32.03
65 ILCS 5/8-3-1            32.05
65 ILCS 5/8-8-3            32.06
65 ILCS 5/8-8-4            32.06
65 ILCS 5/8-9-1 et seq.    32.07
65 ILCS 5/11-1-1 et seq.   33.01;
                           33.02
65 ILCS 5/11-5-2           90.20
65 ILCS 5/11-20-7          90.58
65 ILCS 5/11-20-13         90.43
65 ILCS 5/11-31-1          92.10
230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.      111.20
235 ILCS 5/1-1             112.01
235 ILCS 5/6-21            112.07
425 ILCS 35/2              130.062
510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.       93.04;
                           93.07
625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-111.8         70.02
625 ILCS 5/1-188           10.02
625 ILCS 5/4-201 et seq.   91.06
625 ILCS 5/11-303(b)       70.02
625 ILCS 5/11-500—5/11-5072.18
625 ILCS 5/12-709          72.18
625 ILCS 40/5-1            72.02
625 ILCS 40/5-2            72.03
625 ILCS 40/5-3            72.04
720 ILCS 5/11-9            130.030
720 ILCS 5/12-1            130.016
720 ILCS 5/12-3            130.017
720 ILCS 5/21-1            130.001
720 ILCS 5/21-1.3(a)       130.002
720 ILCS 5/24-1            130.061
720 ILCS 5/26-1            130.015
720 ILCS 5/28-1 et seq.    111.20;
                           111.21
720 ILCS 5/28-1(b)         111.21
720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.     130.075
720 ILCS 555/1             130.019
720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.   130.076
720 ILCS 600/1 et seq.     130.077
765 ILCS 165               55.05
765 ILCS 205-1 et seq.     154.001
765 ILCS 205-1             154.040
                           
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2024 Code
Prior Code            2024 Code
1-8                   10.18
1-9                   10.19;
                      10.99
1-10                  10.99
1-11                  10.99
1-12                  10.99
2-1                   30.01
2-2                   30.02
2-3                   30.03
2-4                   30.04
2-5                   30.04
2-6                   30.05
2-7                   30.06
2-8                   30.07
2-9                   30.08
2-10                  31.01
2-11                  31.02
2-12                  31.03
2-13                  31.04
2-14                  31.15
2-15                  31.16
2-16                  31.17
2-17                  31.18
2-18                  31.19
2-19                  31.30
2-20                  31.31
2-21                  31.32
2-22                  31.33
2-23                  31.34
2-24                  31.35
2-25                  31.36
2-26                  31.37
2-27                  31.38
2-28                  31.50
2-29                  31.51
2-30                  30.20
2-31                  30.21
2-32                  30.22
2-33                  30.23
2-34                  30.24
2-35                  30.35
2-36                  30.36
2-37                  30.37
2-38                  30.50
2-39                  30.51
2-40                  30.52
2-41                  30.53
2-42                  30.65
2-43                  30.66
2-44                  32.01
2-45                  32.01
2-46                  32.02
2-47                  32.03
2-48                  32.04
2-49                  32.05
2-50                  32.06
2-51                  32.07
3-1                   130.015
3-2                   130.016
3-3                   130.017
3-4                   130.001
3-5                   130.002
3-6                   130.030
3-7                   130.018
3-8                   130.060
3-9                   130.061
3-10                  130.062
3-11                  130.063
3-12                  130.064
3-13                  130.045
3-14                  130.046
3-15                  130.047
3-16                  130.048
3-17                  130.049
3-18                  130.019
3-19                  130.999
4-1                   70.01
5-1                   91.01
5-2                   91.01
5-3                   91.02
5-4                   91.03
5-5                   91.04
5-6                   91.05
5-7                   91.06
5-8                   91.07
5-9                   91.99
6-1                   72.01
6-2                   72.02
6-3                   72.03
6-4                   72.04
6-5                   72.99
7-1                   71.20
7-2                   71.21
7-3                   71.22
7-4                   71.23
7-5                   71.24
7-6                   71.25
7-7                   71.99
8-1                   112.01
8-2                   112.02
8-3                   112.03
8-4                   112.04
8-5                   112.05
8-6                   112.06
8-7                   112.08
8-8                   112.09
8-9                   112.10
8-10                  112.11
8-11                  112.12
8-12                  112.13
8-13                  112.14
8-14                  112.15
8-15                  112.16
8-16                  112.99
9-1                   90.20
9-2                   90.21
9-3                   90.99
11-1                  92.01
11-2                  92.02
11-3                  92.03
11-4                  92.04
11-5                  92.05
11-6                  92.06
11-7                  92.07
11-8                  92.08
11-9                  92.09
11-10                 92.10
11-11                 92.99
12-1                  90.35
12-2                  90.36
12-3                  90.37
12-4                  90.38
12-5                  90.39
12-6                  90.40
12-7                  90.41
12-8                  90.42
12-9                  90.43
12-10                 90.99
13-1                  50.01
13-2                  50.15
13-3                  50.16
13-4                  50.17
13-5                  50.18
13-6                  50.19
13-7                  50.20
13-8                  50.21
13-9                  50.22
13-10                 50.23
13-11                 50.99
13-12                 50.35
13-13                 50.36
13-14                 50.37
13-15                 50.38
13-16                 50.39
13-17                 50.40
13-18                 50.41
13-19                 50.55
14-1                  90.55
14-2                  90.56
14-3                  90.57
14-4                  90.58
14-5                  90.99
15-1                  95.01
15-2                  95.02
15-3                  95.03
15-4                  95.99
16-1                  111.01
16-2                  111.02
16-3                  111.03
16-4                  111.04
16-5                  111.05
16-6                  111.06
16-8                  111.99
17-1                  110.01
17-2                  110.15
17-3                  110.16
17-4                  110.30
17-5                  110.31
17-6                  110.32
17-7                  110.33
17-8                  110.34
Chapter 17, Article 4 110.99
18-1                  94.01
18-2                  94.02
18-3                  94.03
18-4                  94.04
18-5                  94.05
18-6                  94.06
18-7                  94.07
18-8                  94.08
18-9                  94.09
18-10                 94.10
18-11                 94.11
18-12                 94.11
18-13                 94.99
19-1                  155.01
19-2                  155.02
19-3                  155.03
19-4                  155.04
19-5                  155.05
19-6                  155.06
19-7                  155.07
19-8                  155.08
19-9                  155.09
19-10                 155.11
19-11                 155.12
19-12                 155.13
19-13                 155.14
19-14                 155.15
19-15                 155.16
19-16                 155.99
20-1                  150.01
20-2                  150.02
20-3                  150.03
20-4                  150.04
20-5                  150.05
20-6                  150.06
20-7                  150.07
20-8                  150.08
20-9                  150.09
20-10                 150.10
20-11                 150.25
20-12                 150.26
20-13                 150.27
20-14                 150.28
20-15                 150.29
20-16                 150.30
20-17                 150.31
20-18                 150.32
20-19                 150.33
20-20                 150.34
20-21                 150.35
20-22                 150.36
20-23                 150.99
21-1                  51.01
21-2                  51.02
21-3                  51.03
21-4                  51.04
21-5                  51.05
21-6                  51.06
21-7                  51.07
21-8                  51.08
21-9                  51.09
21-10                 51.10
21-11                 51.11
21-12                 51.12
21-13                 51.13
21-14                 51.14
21-15                 51.15
21-16                 51.16
21-17                 51.17
21-18                 51.18
21-19                 51.19
21-20                 51.20
21-21                 51.35
21-22                 51.36
21-23                 51.37
21-24                 51.38
21-25                 51.39
21-26                 51.40
21-27                 51.41
21-28                 51.42
21-29                 51.43
21-30                 51.44
22-1                  52.01
22-2                  52.02
22-3                  52.03
22-4                  52.04
22-5                  52.05
22-6                  52.06
22-7                  52.07
22-8                  52.08
22-9                  52.09
22-10                 52.10
22-11                 52.99
23-1                  53.001
23-2                  53.015
23-3                  53.016
23-4                  53.017
23-5                  53.018
23-6                  53.030
23-7                  53.031
23-8                  53.032
23-9                  53.033
23-10                 53.034
23-11                 53.035
23-12                 53.036
23-13                 53.037
23-14                 53.050
23-15                 53.051
23-16                 53.052
23-17                 53.053
23-18                 53.054
23-19                 53.055
23-20                 53.056
23-21                 53.057
23-22                 53.058
23-23                 53.059
23-24                 53.060
23-25                 53.061
23-26                 53.062
23-27                 53.075
23-28                 53.076
23-29                 53.077
23-30                 53.078
23-31                 53.079
23-32                 53.080
23-33                 53.081
23-34                 53.082
23-35                 53.083
23-36                 53.084
23-37                 53.085
23-38                 53.086
23-39                 53.100
23-40                 53.101
23-41                 53.102
23-42                 53.999
23-43                 53.999
23-44                 53.999
24-1                  54.01
24-2                  54.15
24-3                  54.16
24-4                  54.17
24-5                  54.18
24-6                  54.19
24-7                  54.20
24-8                  54.21
24-9                  54.22
24-10                 54.23
24-11                 54.24
24-12                 54.25
24-13                 54.26
24-14                 54.27
24-15                 54.99
24-16                 54.28
25-1                  152.01
25-2                  152.02
25-3                  152.03
25-4                  152.04
25-5                  152.05
25-6                  152.06
25-7                  152.07
26-1                  71.01
26-3                  71.02
26-4                  71.03
26-5                  71.04
26-6                  71.05
26-7                  71.06
26-8                  71.07
26-9                  71.08
26-10                 71.99
                      
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
                      154.001;
                      154.002;
                      154.015—
                      154.020;
                      154.035—
                      154.042;
                      154.055—
-         - -         154.060;
                      154.075—
                      154.078;
                      154.090—
                      154.098;
                      154.110—
                      154.112;
                      154.999
2020-1-1  - -         33.01—
                      33.09
-         2-6-1961    150.50—
                      150.53
-         3-3-1969    151.15—
                      151.17
12 1991-A 12-10-1991  71.23
19A       7-9-1996    151.01—
                      151.04
-         1-9-1997    91.01
-         8-12-1997   90.01—
                      90.08
-         11- -1997   150.03
1999-1    5-11-1999   130.075—
                      130.077
1999-2    6-8-1999    34.01—
                      34.05
-         5-14-2002   155.10
2006-4-1  4-11-2006   91.01
2009-10-1 10-13-2009  70.02
                      111.20;
2012-9-1  9-11-2012   111.21;
                      111.99
2014-4-2  4-14-2014   72.19;
                      72.99
2019-2-1  2-12-2019   156.01—
                      156.06
2021-3-1  3-9-2021    55.01—
                      55.05
2014-4-2  3-9-2021    72.15—
                      72.19
                      112.01—
2022-2-1  2-8-2022    112.16;
                      112.99
2014-4-2  6-14-2022   72.20
2023-7-1  7-18-2023   10.99
                      93.01—
2023-8-1  8-8-2023    93.17;
                      93.99
                     
 
 
