DE LAND, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 15-, passed 6-1-2015
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: www.amlegal.com
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   VILLAGE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omission
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the Village of De Land shall be designated as
the code of the village, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES or VILLAGE BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the village.
   COUNTY. Piatt County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Piatt County, Illinois.
(5 ILCS 70/1.07)
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.
(5 ILCS 70/1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of that officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(5 ILCS 70/1.08)
   HERETOFORE  or HEREAFTER. HERETOFOREmeans any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution, or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at
any time after that date.
(5 ILCS 70/1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD, or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of this state, or of any town or county of this state, and
all bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER orPROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR. The President of the Village of De Land.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(5 ILCS 70/1.12)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures, and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals. 
(5 ILCS 70/1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the Village
of De Land.  POLICE FORCE shall be construed to include those persons in the
employ of a village as members of the Department of Police, who are or shall
hereafter be appointed and sworn as POLICE OFFICERS.
(5 ILCS 70/1.20)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, county, state, or federal governments, officers and agencies thereof,
or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized public
official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail, and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares, and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The village code hereby adopted, and
as hereinafter modified by amendment, revision, and by the adoption of new
titles, chapters, or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in § 1 of Article VII of
the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.28)
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   VILLAGE. The Village of De Land.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents, and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic,  and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond required by law,
except as otherwise provided by law it shall be:
      (1)   In the proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or
      (2)   An electronic signature as defined in the Electronic Commerce
Security Act, 5 ILCS 175/1-101 et seq., except as otherwise provided by law.
(5 ILCS 70/1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord”.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
§ 10.03  SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(5 ILCS 70/1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(5 ILCS 70/1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded.  If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday, or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday
or Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the President
and Board of Trustees may be fully carried out.
(5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, insofar as they are the same as those
of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
§ 10.05  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the village shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06  REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment, or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) below:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation, or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded, or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding, or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding, or remedy may be instituted, continued, or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for any offense is reduced
by a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision, and the context
clearly indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was
not intended.
§ 10.08  CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of these
codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
bearing the latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions
bear the same passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be
consistent with the meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject
matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.09  AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections, and divisions, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of ordinances by the
Board of Trustees.
§ 10.10  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances, or the
application thereof, to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11  REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. These references
shall also include the designee or agent of the officer or office, unless the
law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12  ERRORS AND OMISSION.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to, tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming, or vacating streets, alleys, or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the village; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15  ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the Board
of Trustees, or a certain village officer or employee, to make additional
regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
regulations of a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the
codification, and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are
saved.
§ 10.16  TECHNICAL CODES.
   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to the technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the village. Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17  HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text of the
section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1)
   (C)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text
of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 38.04  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         The village shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying
      all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information
Act.
      Statutory reference:
         Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specified, any violation of these chapters shall be
deemed a petty offense.
   (B)   Upon conviction of a petty offense, the court may sentence the
defendant to:
      (1)   A period of continual discharge;
      (2)   A fine of up to $500 with a minimum fee of $25;
      (3)   Pay costs of suit; or
      (4)   Make restitution to any victim.
   (C)   The Unified Code of Corrections, 730 ILCS 5/1-1-1 et seq. as made
applicable by 730 ILCS 5/5-1-15, shall apply to all sentences for the violation
of these chapters.
(Prior Code, § 21-3)
   (D)   Whoever violates any provision of this code or other ordinance of this
village for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be fined
not more than $750 for each and every violation thereof, and every day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-
1.1
   Limitations on penalties and collection upon default in payment, see 65 ILCS
6/1-2-1
CHAPTER 11:  VILLAGE STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Corporate seal
   
11.02   Local improvements; board
§ 11.01  CORPORATE SEAL.
   (A)   The corporate seal of said village shall be circular in form, and be
so constructed or engraved as to impress upon paper the words, and figures
“Incorporated Nov. 15, 1899” within a circle formed by the words “Village of De
Land, Piatt County, Illinois”.
   (B)   The said corporate seal shall be, and remain, in the custody of the
Village Clerk of said village, and his or her successors in office, to be used
by said Clerk, in all cases, provided for by the ordinances of said village, or
the laws of the state; and in all such other cases, whereby the laws, and
customs, of any state or nation, the use of the corporate seal of said village,
becomes, or may be, necessary and proper.
(Prior Code, § 21-1)
§ 11.02  LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS; BOARD
   (A)   There shall be, and is hereby created and established, a Board of
Local Improvements of such village, which shall have charge of all local
improvements in said village, which are to be paid for wholly, or in part, by
“special assessment” or “special taxation”, according to the provisions of an
act of the legislature entitled “an Act concerning Local Improvements” approved
June 14, 1897, and the amendments thereto.
   (B)   The said Board shall consist of three members, of whom the President
of said village shall be one member, and shall be President of said Board; the
other two members shall be the Chairperson of the Street and Alley Committee,
and the Chairperson of the Committee on Fire Department and Water Works.
(Prior Code, § 21-2)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/9-2-143
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
31.   EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
      
32.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
      
33.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30:  PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   President and The Board of Trustees
   
30.02   Qualifications
   
30.03   Regular meetings
   
30.04   Appointment of committees
   
30.05   Duties of committees
   
30.06   Quorum
   
30.07   Fiscal year
   
30.08   Rules of the President and Board of Trustees
President
   
30.20   Election
   
30.21   Duties
   
30.22   Appointment of officers
   
30.23   Designation of officer’s duties
   
30.24   President Pro Tem
   
30.25   Acting President
   
30.26   Formal occasions
   
30.27   Bond
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01  PRESIDENT AND THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   The President and Board of Trustees shall be the corporate authorities of
the village and shall consist of a President and six Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 3-1)
§ 30.02  QUALIFICATIONS.
   No person shall be eligible to the office of Trustee, unless he or she shall
be a qualified elector, and a resident of the village, nor shall he or she be
eligible if he or she is in arrears in payment of any tax, or other liability
due to the village; nor shall he or she be directly, or indirectly, interested
in any contract whatever, in or to which the village is a party; nor shall he
or she be eligible if he or she shall have been convicted of any crime,
malfeasance, bribery, or corrupt practices; nor shall he or she be eligible to
any office, the salary of which is payable out of the Village Treasury, if at
the time of his or her appointment he or she was a member of the Board of
Trustees; nor shall any member of the Board of Trustees at the same time hold
any other office under the village government.
(Prior Code, § 3-2)
§ 30.03  REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The regular stated meeting of the President and Board of Trustees shall be
held at the place appointed or chosen by the President and Board of Trustees
for holding their meetings, on the first Monday of each month at 7:00 p.m.,
except when said first Monday shall fall on a holiday, in which event the
monthly meeting shall be held on the second Monday of the month.
(Prior Code, § 3-3)  (Ord. passed 3-2-1992)
§ 30.04  APPOINTMENT OF COMMITTEES.
   It shall be the duty of the President, at the first regular meeting of the
President and Board of Trustees, in the month of May in each year, or as soon
thereafter as may be, to appoint five standing committees of the President and
Board of Trustees, and shall designate the Chairperson thereof, each of said
committees to consist of not less than three Trustees, which shall be as
follows:
   (A)   First: Committee on Finance and Supplies;
   (B)   Second: Committee on Sidewalks, Streets, and Alleys and Public
Grounds;
   (C)   Third: Committee on Waterworks;
   (D)   Fourth: Committee on Sewer, Parks, and Light; and
   (E)   Fifth: Committee on Ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-4)
§ 30.05  DUTIES OF COMMITTEES.
   It shall be the duty of the standing committees of the President and Board
of Trustees to keep watch of the affairs of their respective departments of the
village government. They shall have the general management, control, and
supervision over the works, and things ordered to be made or done by the
President and Board of Trustees in their several departments, and they shall
make reports to the President and Board of Trustees of whatever facts may be
deemed of importance.
(Prior Code, § 3-5)
§ 30.06  QUORUM.
   A majority of the Trustees shall constitute a quorum to transact business,
but a smaller number may adjourn from time to time, and may compel the
attendance of absentees under penalties prescribed by §
31.30 (H).
(Prior Code, § 3-6)
§ 30.07  FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal and municipal year of the village shall commence on May 1 in each
and every year.
(Prior Code, § 3-7)
§ 30.08  RULES OF THE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   The following rules for the government of the deliberations of the President
and Board of Trustees are hereby adopted.
   (A)   The order of business at all regular meetings of the President and
Board of Trustees shall be as follows:
      (1)   First: reading of the minutes of proceedings of regular and special
meetings;
      (2)   Second: reports of standing committees;
      (3)   Third: reports of special committees;
      (4)   Fourth: reports of officers;
      (5)   Fifth: petitions and communications to the President and Board of
Trustees;
      (6)   Sixth: presentation of claims and accounts; and
      (7)   Seventh: unfinished business;
   (B)   The President shall preserve order and decorum, and shall decide all
questions or order, subject to an appeal to the Board of Trustees. Appeals to
the President and Board of Trustees shall be decided without debate.
   (C)   No member of the Board shall speak more than twice upon any question,
nor more than ten  minutes at one time except by permission of the Board of
Trustees.
   (D)   Any member called to order shall immediately take his or her seat
until point of order is decided.
   (E)   While any member is speaking, no member shall engage in conversation
with other persons, nor pass between the speaker and the President.
   (F)   Any member indulging in personalities or reflections injurious to the
feelings of any other member, or the harmony of the President and Board of
Trustees, shall be called to order by the President.
   (G)   All petitions and other communications to the President and Board of
Trustees shall be in writing, signed by the petitioner or communicant.
   (H)   When a question is stated, every Trustee present shall vote unless
excused by the President and Board of Trustees, or unless he or she is directly
interested in the question, in which case he or she shall not vote.
   (I)   No motion shall be entertained unless seconded; when seconded, it
shall be stated by the President and, if any member requires, it shall be
reduced to writing.
   (J)   When a motion or resolution has been slated by the President, it shall
be deemed to be in possession of the President and Board of Trustees but may be
withdrawn at any time before a decision or amendment by consent of the
President and Board of Trustees.
   (K)   If a question under consideration contains more than one distinct
proposition, it may be divided on the request of any member.
   (L)   When a blank is to be filled and different sums or times proposed, the
question shall first be put upon the largest sum or the longest time.
   (M)   When a question is under debate, no motion shall be received, unless
for the previous questions, to refer, to postpone indefinitely, to adjourn to a
certain day, to lay on the table, to amend or to adjourn.
   (N)   A motion for the “previous question” to lay the question on the table,
or to commit it until decided, shall preclude all amendments or debate of the
main question; and a motion to postpone a question indefinitely or to adjourn
to a certain day shall, until it is decided, preclude all amendments to the
main question.
   (O)   The “previous question” shall be put as follows: “Shall the main
question be now put?”
   (P)   A motion to adjourn shall always be in order.
   (Q)   In all cases, the name of a member offering a resolution or motion
shall be entered with it upon the journal.
   (R)   The yeas and nays shall be taken on the passage of every ordinance,
and on all propositions to create any liability against said village, or for
the expenditure or appropriation of its money, and be entered upon the journal,
and if any member requires it upon any question before the President and Board
of Trustees, but shall not be taken unless called for previous to the taking of
the vote.
   (S)   No ordinance shall be repealed, or passed, or contract, or
appropriation made unless by a vote of the majority of the President and Board
of Trustees.
   (T)   Committees to whom any subject may be referred shall report in
writing, addressed to the President and Board of Trustees of the village, be
signed by the committee, and the reports shall be filed away and preserved by
the Clerk.
   (U)   Any report of a committee of the President and Board of Trustees shall
be deferred for final action thereon, to the next regular meeting of the same,
after such report is made, upon request of any two Trustees present.
   (V)   The Clerk shall forward all papers to the appropriate committees and
officers as early as the next day after the reference shall be made by the
Village Marshal, who shall deliver them.
   (W)   No petition for the remission of a fine under any ordinance of the
village shall be granted without a vote of two-thirds of the President and
Board of Trustees, or without said petition is signed by the Police Magistrate,
Justice of the Peace or jury who tried the case and imposed the fine, or the
Village Attorney.
   (X)   Every proposition involving the expenditure of money shall be referred
to an appropriate standing committee, and a report thereon made to the
President and Board of Trustees by such committee, before the President and
Board of Trustees vote upon the expenditure.
   (Y)   On all points of order not herein specially provided for, “Robert’s
Rules of Order” is adopted and made the law governing the deliberations of said
President and Board of Trustees.
   (Z)   The foregoing rules, or any of them, shall not be required or
annulled, amended, abridged, modified, or suspended except by vote of a
majority of the President and Board of Trustees of said village.
(Prior Code, § 24-1)
PRESIDENT
§ 30.20  ELECTION.
   The President shall be elected for a four-year term, and shall serve until
his or her successor is elected and qualified as is provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 2-1)
§ 30.21  DUTIES.
   The President shall be the chief executive officer of the village, and shall
preside over the meeting of the Board of Trustees, and perform such duties as
may be required of him or her by statute or ordinance. He or she shall have
supervision over all of the executive officers and employees of the village,
and shall have the power and authority to inspect all books and records
pertaining to village affairs, which are kept by any officer or employee of the
village, at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 2-2)
§ 30.22  APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   The President shall appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the Board
of Trustees, all officers of the village whose election or appointment is not
otherwise provided for. Any vacancies occurring in an appointive office shall
be filled in the same manner.
(Prior Code, § 2-3)
§ 30.23  DESIGNATION OF OFFICER’S DUTIES.
   Whenever there is a dispute as to the respective duties or powers of any
appointive officer of the village, this dispute shall be settled by the
President after consultation with the Village Attorney, and the President shall
have the power to delegate to any appointed officer any duty which is to be
performed when no specific officer has been directed to perform that duty.
(Prior Code, § 2-4)
§ 30.24  PRESIDENT PRO TEM.
   During the temporary absence or disability of the President, the Board of
Trustees shall elect one of its members to act as President Pro Tem who, during
such absence or disability, shall possess the powers of President, as is
provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 2-5)
§ 30.25  ACTING PRESIDENT.
   In the event of a vacancy in the office of President, the Board of Trustees
may appoint one of its members as Acting President to serve until the vacancy
is filled at regular or special election, as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 2-6)
§ 30.26  FORMAL OCCASIONS.
   The President shall act for and on behalf of the village on formal occasions
and receptions, but in his or her absence or inability to attend any such
function, the Board of Trustees may select any other village officer to so act.
(Prior Code, § 2-7)
§ 30.27  BOND.
   Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, the President shall
execute a bond in such amount, and with such sureties as may be required by the
Board of Trustees, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of
his or her office, provided the amount of such bond shall not be less than
$3,000.
(Prior Code, § 2-8)
CHAPTER 31:  EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
Section
Village Clerk
   
31.01   Bond
   
31.02   Keeping minutes
   
31.03   Corporate seal
   
31.04   Publish ordinances
   
31.05   Official papers
   
31.06   Bond records
   
31.07   General duties
   
31.08   Other duties
   
31.09   Bond as Treasurer
   
31.10   Deposit of funds
   
31.11   Records
   
31.12   Accounts
   
31.13   Reports
   
31.14   Appointment
   
31.15   Combining with Treasurer
Officials and Roles Generally
   
31.30   Municipal officers
   
31.31   Superintendent of Streets
   
31.32   Village Attorney
   
31.33   Village Marshal and Police Force
Ethics and Etiquette
   
31.45   State Officials and Employees Act
VILLAGE CLERK
§ 31.01  BOND.
   The Village Clerk, before he or she enters upon the duties of his or her
office, shall take and subscribe the oath prescribed for other village
officers, shall execute a bond to the village in the penal sum of $500, with
such securities as shall be approved by the President and Board of Trustees,
conditioned for the faithful discharge of the duties of his or her office, and
payment of all moneys that may be received by him or her, according to law and
the ordinances of the village, which bond shall be filed with the Village
Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 4-1)
§ 31.02  KEEPING MINUTES.
    The Village Clerk shall attend all meetings of the President and Board of
Trustees, and shall keep in a suitable book, a full and faithful record of its
proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 4-2)
§ 31.03  CORPORATE SEAL.
   The Village Clerk shall keep for the village a corporate seal, to be
provided under the direction of the President and Board of Trustees, and all
papers belonging to the village, and copies of all papers, duly filed by him or
her, in his or her office.
(Prior Code, § 4-3)
§ 31.04  PUBLISH ORDINANCES.
   The Clerk shall cause all ordinances hereafter passed by the President and
Board of Trustees, imposing any fine, penalty, imprisonment, or forfeiture, or
making any appropriation, to be published once, and that within 30 days after
their passage, in such public newspaper printed in said village, as the
President and Trustees shall designate, and shall file and preserve in his or
her office one or more copies of the paper, containing every ordinance so
published.
(Prior Code, § 4-4)
§ 31.05  OFFICIAL PAPERS.
   Said Clerk shall prepare all commissions, licenses, permits, and other
official documents required to be issued by him or her under the laws and
ordinances of the village, and shall attest the same with the corporate seal.
(Prior Code, § 4-5)
§ 31.06  BOND RECORDS.
   The Clerk shall keep in his or her office, in a book or books kept expressly
for that purpose, a correct list of all outstanding bonds of the village,
showing the number and the amount of each, and to whom the said bonds are
issued.
(Prior Code, § 4-6)
§ 31.07  GENERAL DUTIES.
   The Clerk shall perform such duties as may be prescribed for him or her by
statute or by ordinance. He or she shall receive all money paid to the village,
either directly from the person paying it or from the hands of such other
officer as may receive it, and he or she shall pay out money only on vouchers
or orders properly signed by the Village Clerk and the President.
(Prior Code, § 5-3)
§ 31.08  OTHER DUTIES.
   In addition to the foregoing duties, the Village Clerk shall perform such
other and further duties pertaining to his or her office as may be necessary,
or as the President and Board of Trustees may, from time to time, direct.
(Prior Code, § 4-7)
§ 31.09  BOND AS TREASURER.
   The Clerk shall give bond conditioned upon the faithful performance of his
or her duties and to indemnify the village for any loss due to neglect of duty
or wrongful act on his or her part, and the amount of such bond shall not be
less than three times the latest federal census population, or any subsequent
census figure used for motor fuel tax purposes, as required by state law.
(Prior Code, § 5-2)
§ 31.10  DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   The Clerk shall deposit the village funds in such depositories as may be
selected from time to time as is provided by law, and he or she shall keep the
village money separate and distinct from his or her own, and shall not
intermingle his or her own money with it, or make private or personal use of
the village funds.
(Prior Code, § 5-4)
§ 31.11  RECORDS.
   The Clerk shall keep records showing all money received by him or her, the
source from which it was received, and the purpose for which it was paid out;
and he or she shall keep a record, showing at all times, the financial status
of the village.
(Prior Code, § 5-5)
§ 31.12  ACCOUNTS.
   The Clerk shall keep such books and accounts, as may be required by the
Board of Trustees, and shall keep them in the manner required by the Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 5-6)
§ 31.13  REPORTS.
   The Clerk shall make monthly reports to the village showing the state of
finances of the village, the amounts received and spent during the month, which
reports shall be filed. He or she shall make an annual report after the close
of the fiscal year, as required by statute, with the total amount of all
receipts and expenditures of the village, and his or her transactions as Clerk
during the preceding year.
(Prior Code, § 5-7)
§ 31.14  APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   Commencing with the next ensuing term of the Village Clerk, the
Village Clerk shall hereafter be an appointed office rather than an elected
one.
   (B)   Said Village Clerk shall be appointed by the Village President with
the concurrence of the Village Board.
   (C)   The Village Clerk shall not necessarily be required to be a resident
of the village.
(Res. passed 8-2-2004)
§ 31.15  COMBINING WITH TREASURER.
   It is in the best interest of the village for the office of Treasurer to be
discontinued, and the duties of Village Treasurer evolve on the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 13-01, passed 4-1-2013)
OFFICIALS AND ROLES GENERALLY
§ 31.30  MUNICIPAL OFFICERS.
   (A)   The municipal officers of said village shall consist of a President
and six Trustees, a Village Clerk, a Superintendent of Streets, and a Village
Attorney. Extra police can be appointed by the President and Board of Trustees
with the advice and consent of a majority vote of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-1)
   (B)   (1)   All of the officers of said village, whether elected or
appointed, shall, before entering upon the duties of their respective offices,
take and subscribe to the following oath or affirmation:
      “I,_____________, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution
of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and that I
will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of_______________according
to the best of my ability.”
      (2)   Such oath or affirmation, when subscribed and taken, shall be filed
in the office of the Village Clerk, and all such officers, before entering upon
the duties of their respective offices, shall enter into and execute bond to
the village, with security to be approved by the President and Board of
Trustees, conditioned for the faithful discharge of the duties of his or her
office, and the prompt payment of all moneys received by such officers,
according to law, and the ordinances of said village.
(Prior Code, § 1-2)
   (C)   No person shall be eligible to any office of the village who is not a
qualified elector of said village, and who shall not have resided therein at
least one year next preceding his or her election or appointment.
(Prior Code, § 1-3)
   (D)   No officer of the village, during his or her official term, shall be
directly or indirectly concerned or interested in any contract, work, or
business of said village, or in the sale to the village of any article, the
expense of which is to be paid out of the Village Treasury.
(Prior Code, § 1-4)
   (E)   No President, Trustees, or Village Clerk shall hold any other office
under the village government during the term of office to which he or she has
been elected or appointed.
(Prior Code, § 1-5)
   (F)   The President, Trustees, and Village Constable shall each be
conservators of the peace, and as such, shall exercise within said village the
powers conferred upon them by the statutes of the state.
(Prior Code, § 1-6)
   (G)   The salaries of all village officers, whether elected or appointed,
shall be such as the President and Board of Trustees shall determine by
ordinance, and when such salary shall be fixed, the same shall not be increased
or diminished during the term for which said officers were elected or
appointed.
(Prior Code, § 1-7)
   (H)   In case the President, or any other village officer, shall at any time
during his or her  continuance in office be guilty of a palpable omission of
official duty, or shall willfully or corruptly be guilty of oppression,
misconduct, or malfeasance, in the discharge of any of the duties of his or her
office, he or she shall be guilty of a petty offense, and the court in which
such conviction is had may enter in order removing such officer from office.
(Prior Code, § 1-8)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.31  SUPERINTENDENT OF STREETS.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Superintendent of Streets of
said village. He or she shall hold this office for the term of one year, and
until his or her successor shall be appointed and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 6-1)
   (B)   The Village Superintendent of Streets shall be appointed by the
President, by and with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees, at the
first regular meeting in each fiscal year in May, or as soon thereafter as may
be.
(Prior Code, § 6-2)
   (C)   Said Superintendent shall have charge of the improvement, repair, and
cleaning of all streets, avenues, and alleys in said village, and shall
supervise the construction and repair of all sidewalks therein.
(Prior Code, § 6-3)
   (D)   The Superintendent of Streets shall cause all ordinances in relation
to streets, alleys, and sidewalks to be enforced by reporting all violations
thereof to the President.
(Prior Code, § 6-4)
   (E)   The Superintendent of Streets shall annually, in the spring of the
year, under the direction of the Committee on Streets and Alleys, cause the
streets, avenues, and alleys, where needed, to be cleaned, and the gutters
opened, and shall as far as practicable, keep them in that condition during the
year.
(Prior Code, § 6-5)
   (F)   The Superintendent of Streets shall supervise all connections of
private drains or sewers within the public sewers, and shall see that the same
are made in such manner that no injury is done to the public sewers.
(Prior Code, § 6-6)
   (G)   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Streets to keep a
correct list of all implements, materials, and other property of the village in
his or her charge and possession, and upon the expiration of his or her term of
office, or his or her resignation thereof, or removal therefrom, he or she
shall deliver said property to his or her successor in office, taking a receipt
therefore, which he or she shall immediately file with the Village Clerk, who
shall credit him or her with the same, and charge his or her successor
therewith.
(Prior Code, § 6-7)
§ 31.32  VILLAGE ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Village Attorney shall, before entering upon the duties of his or
her office, take, and subscribe the oath prescribed by law for other village
officers, and execute a bond to the village in the penal sum of $500, with such
security as the President and Board of Trustees shall approve, conditioned for
the faithful performance of the duties of said office.
(Prior Code, § 7-1)
   (B)   (1)   The Village Attorney shall be the legal adviser of the village;
he or she shall, when required, advise the President and Board of Trustees, or
any village officers, in all matters of law in which the interests of the
village are involved, and he or she shall draw such ordinances, bonds, and
contracts, or examine and approve the same, as may be required of him or her by
the President and Board of Trustees, or any committee thereof.
      (2)   Said Attorney shall prosecute or defend on behalf of the village,
in all cases in which the interests of the village are involved.
      (3)   He or she shall cause executions to be issued upon all judgments,
recovered in favor of the village, and see to their prompt collection. He or
she shall examine all the fee bills of officers of courts, and certify to the
correctness of the same, and the liability of the village for the same.
      (4)   He or she is hereby charged with the prosecution of all actions for
violations of the ordinances of the village. He or she shall institute and
prosecute an action in every case where there has been a violation of the
ordinances of the village, when instructed to do so by the President and Board
of Trustees, or the chief officer of any department of the village government,
or upon complaint of any person when, in his or her judgment, the public
interest shall require that the same to prosecuted.
(Prior Code, § 7-2)
   (C)   Said Attorney shall annually, on May 1 of each year, report in writing
to the President and Board of Trustees a detailed statement of all suits
instituted and pending in the courts of record wherein the village is plaintiff
or defendant. In said reports, he or she shall state the names of the parties
to the suits, the date of their commencement, the nature thereof, and the
several steps taken by him or her to bring the same to a final issue, and he or
she shall give a list of all cases disposed of in any court of record during
his or her term of office, and subsequent to his or her last report, with such
explanatory remarks as he or she may think proper to add thereto, to the end
that the President and Board of Trustees may be kept fully advised as to the
legal affairs of the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-3)
§ 31.33  VILLAGE MARSHAL AND POLICE FORCE.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Village Marshal. He or she shall
be the Chief of the Police Department and shall hold his or her office for the
term of one year, and until his or her successor shall be appointed and
qualified.
(Prior Code, § 8-1)
   (B)   The Village Marshal shall be appointed by the President, by and with
the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees; and before entering upon the
duties of his or her office, he or she shall take and subscribe the oath
prescribed by law, and the ordinances of said village for other village
officers, and execute a bond to the village in the penal sum of $500, with good
and sufficient sureties, to be approved by the President and Board of Trustees,
conditioned for the faithful discharge of the duties of his or her office.
(Prior Code, § 8-2)
   (C)   The Village Marshal shall be the commanding officer of the entire
police force of the village, subject only to the President; and in case of his
or her necessary absence from the village, or temporary disability, he or she
shall designate some member of the police force to perform his or her duties
who, during such absence or disability, shall have the powers and perform the
duties of the Marshal. Said Marshal shall in no case absent himself or herself
from the village without the consent of the President.
(Prior Code, § 8-3)
   (D)   (1)   Said Village Marshal shall keep, or cause to be kept, books of
record of the Police Department, and all persons arrested or committed by the
police, showing the time and place of each arrest, the offense for which the
same was made, the court before whom such person was tried, and the disposition
of each case.
      (2)   He or she shall, either in person or by deputy, attend all meetings
of the President and Board of Trustees, execute all its orders and all
warrants, or other legal process required to be executed by him or her under
any ordinance of the village.
      (3)   Such Village Marshal shall have the care, custody, and control of
all books, records, equipments, and other property belonging to the Police
Department, and of all stolen goods seized and retained by the policy
authority. Upon the expiration of his or her term of office, or his or her
resignation or removal therefrom, he or she shall, on demand, surrender to his
or her successor in office all books, records, equipments, and property in his
or her possession belonging to the village or appertaining to said office.
(Prior Code, § 8-4)
   (E)   There may also be appointed by the President, by and with the advice
and consent of Board of Trustees, at the first regular meeting of the President
and Board of Trustees in each fiscal year, a night marshal or police officer,
and before entering upon the duties of his or her office, he or she shall take
and subscribe the oath required by law and by the ordinances of the village for
other village officers, and shall execute a bond to the village in the penal
sum of $500, with good and sufficient sureties to be approved by the President
and Board of Trustees, conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties
of his or her office.
(Prior Code, § 8-5)
   (F)   Such night police officer shall be a conservator of the peace, and
shall perform all the duties of a police officer under the laws of the state
and the ordinances of the village. He or she shall act under the direction of
the Village Marshal with like powers and authority, and shall see that the laws
and ordinances are properly enforced.
(Prior Code, § 8-6)
   (G)   Whenever the President shall deem it necessary to temporarily increase
the number of watchmen or police officers, he or she may appoint in writing,
under the corporate seal, a suitable number of reputable and discreet citizens
of the village as temporary watchmen or police officers, who shall take and
subscribe the same oath, and may be required to execute a bond to the village
in like manner as the night watchman. The President shall report to the Board
of Trustees all such temporary appointments at its next regular meeting, and
the President and Board of Trustees may continue or discontinue the same at its
discretion. The person so appointed shall receive such compensation as may be
agreed upon.
(Prior Code, § 8-7)
   (H)   All police officers shall have power and authority, within the
corporate limits of the village, to serve and execute warrants or other legal
process for the apprehension and commitment of persons charged with, or held
for, the commission of any crime, or misdemeanor, or the violation of any law
of the state, or any ordinance of the village, and while serving or executing,
or assisting in the service or execution of any such warrants or other legal
process, they shall be vested with all the common law and statutory powers of
constables under the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 8-8)
   (I)   In the event that there is no active Village Police Department, the
Village Clerk, or any duly authorized law enforcement officer, is empowered to
serve all notices required by any ordinance to be served by the Village Police
Department. In addition, in the event that there is no active Village Police
Department, the Village Board may authorize the Village Attorney to file any
legal proceeding necessary to enforce the various ordinances, including those
to be enforced by the filing of a complaint by the Village Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-9)  (Ord. passed 9-8-1981)
ETHICS AND ETIQUETTE
§ 31.45  STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT.
   (A)   Pursuant to § 70-5 of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (5
ILCS 430/70-5) (hereinafter referred to as the “Act” in this section), all
units of local government and school districts are required to adopt an
ordinance or resolution regulating the political activities of, and the
solicitation and acceptance of gifts by, their respective officers and
employees, “in a manner no less restrictive” than the provisions of the Act, on
or before May 19, 2004.
   (B)   The regulations of § 5-15 (5 ILCS 430/5-15) and Article 10 (5 ILCS
430/10-10 through 10-40) of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, are
hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the officers and employees
of the village to the extent required by 5 ILCS 430/70-5.
   (C)   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the Act, by any officer or any employee of the village, is
hereby prohibited.
   (D)   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the village under the Act, is hereby prohibited.
   (E)   The participation in political activities prohibited under the Act, by
any officer or employee of the village, is hereby prohibited.
   (F)   For purposes of this section, the terms “officer” and “employee” shall
be defined as set forth in 5 ILCS 430/70-5(c).
   (G)   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as
those penalties set forth in 5 ILCS 430/50-5 for similar violations of the Act.
   (H)   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of village officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 ILCS 430/70-5(a).
   (I)   Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering, and making of
gifts, and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that
makes its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the village.
   (J)   If the State Supreme Court declares the Act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the Supreme
Court’s decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals or
rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by the
corporate authorities of the village if the Act is found unconstitutional by
the State Supreme Court.
   (K)   If the State Supreme Court declares part of the Act unconstitutional,
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the Act, or does not
address the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the Act as adopted by
this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
section relating to the part of the Act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the village.
(Ord. 2004-06, passed 6-7-2004)
CHAPTER 32:  FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
Section
Municipal Retailer’s Occupation Tax
   
32.01   Tax imposed
   
32.02   Report required
   
32.03   Tax paid
Municipal Service Occupation Tax
   
32.15   Tax imposed
   
32.16   Report required
   
32.17   Tax paid
Investment Policy
   
32.30   Policy
   
32.31   Scope
   
32.32   Prudence
   
32.33   Objective
   
32.34   Delegation of authority
   
32.35   Ethics and conflicts of interest
   
32.36   Financial dealers and institutions
   
32.37   Authorized and suitable investments
   
32.38   Collateralization
   
32.39   Safekeeping and custody
   
32.40   Diversification
   
32.41   Maximum maturities
   
32.42   Internal control
   
32.43   Performance standards
   
32.44   Reporting
   
32.45   Quarterly market value report
   
32.46   Adoption
MUNICIPAL RETAILER’S OCCUPATION TAX
§ 32.01  TAX IMPOSED.
    A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property at retail in this village at the rate of 1% of the
gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while this
subchapter is in effect, in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 9-1)
§ 32.02  REPORT REQUIRED.
   Every such person engaged in such business in the village shall file, on or
before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State Department
of Revenue required by § 3 of “An Act in Relation to a Tax upon Persons Engaged
in the Business of Selling Tangible Personal Property to Purchasers for Use or
Consumption”, approved June 28, 1933, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 9-2)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 35 ILCS 120/3
§ 32.03  TAX PAID.
   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month.
(Prior Code, § 9-3)
MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX
§ 32.15  TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this municipality in the
business of making sales or service at the rate of 1% of the cost price of all
tangible personal property transferred by said serviceman, either in the form
of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an incident to a
sale of service, in accordance with the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/8-11-5.
(Prior Code, § 9-4)
§ 32.16  REPORT REQUIRED.
   Every supplier or servicer required to account for municipal service
occupation tax for the benefit of this municipality shall file, on or before
the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State Department of
Revenue required by § 9 of the Service Occupation Tax Act, being 35 ILCS 115,
approved July 10, 1961, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 9-5)
§ 32.17  TAX PAID.
   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed.
(Prior Code, § 9-6)
INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 32.30  POLICY.
   It is the policy of the village to invest public funds in a manner which
will provide the highest investment return with the maximum security while
meeting the daily cash flow demands of the entity and conforming to all state
and local statutes governing the investment of public funds.
(Ord. 99-7, passed - -)
§ 32.31  SCOPE.
   This policy includes all funds governed by the Board of Trustees of the
village.
(Ord. 99-7, passed - -)
§ 32.32  PRUDENCE.
   (A)   Investments shall be made with judgment and care, under circumstances
then prevailing, which persons of prudence, discretion, and intelligence
exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for speculation, but for
investment/considering the probable safety of their capital, as well as the
probable income to be derived.
   (B)   The standard of prudence to be used by investment officials shall be
the “prudent person” standard, and shall be applied in the context of managing
an overall portfolio.
(Ord. 99-7, passed - -)
§ 32.33  OBJECTIVE.
   (A)   The primary objective, in order of priority, shall be:
      (1)   Legality: conformance with federal, state, and other legal
requirements;
      (2)   Safety: preservation of capital and protection of investment
principal;
      (3)   Liquidity: maintenance of sufficient liquidity to meet operating
requirements; and
      (4)   Yield: attainment of market rates of return.
   (B)   The portfolio should be reviewed periodically as to its effectiveness
in meeting the entity’s needs for safety, liquidity, rate of return,
diversification, and its general performance.
(Ord. 99-7, passed - -)
§ 32.34  DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.
   Management and administrative responsibility for the investment program is
hereby delegated to the Clerk of the Village, who shall establish written
procedures for the operation of the investment program.
(Ord. 99-7, passed - -)
§ 32.35  ETHICS AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   Officers and employees involved in the investment process shall refrain from
personal business activity that could conflict with the proper execution and
management of the investment program, or that could impair their ability to
make impartial decisions.
(Ord. 99-7, passed - -)
§ 32.36  FINANCIAL DEALERS AND INSTITUTIONS.
   The Clerk will maintain a list of financial institutions authorized to
provide investment services.
(Ord. 99-7, passed - -)
§ 32.37  AUTHORIZED AND SUITABLE INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   Investments may be made in any type of security allowed for in the
state statutes regarding the investment of public funds.
   (B)   Investments shall be made that reflect the cash flow needs of the fund
type being invested.
(Ord. 99-7, passed - -)
§ 32.38  COLLATERALIZATION.
   Funds on deposit (checking accounts, certificates of deposit, and the like)
in excess of FDIC limits must be secured by some form of collateral, witnessed
by a written agreement and held at an independent third party institution in
the name of the village.
(Ord. 99-7, passed - -)
§ 32.39  SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   All security transactions, including collateral for repurchase agreements,
entered into by the village shall be conducted on a delivery-verses-payment
(DVP) basis. Securities will be held by an independent third party custodian
designated by the Clerk, and evidenced by safekeeping receipts and a written
custodial agreement.
(Ord. 99-7, passed - -)
§ 32.40  DIVERSIFICATION.
   (A)   The entity shall diversify its investments to the best of its ability
based on the type of funds invested and the cash flow needs of those funds.
   (B)   Diversification can be by type of investment, number of institutions
invested in, and length of maturity.
(Ord. 99-7, passed - -)
§ 32.41  MAXIMUM MATURITIES.
   (A)   (1)   To the extent possible, the village shall attempt to match its
investments with anticipated cash flow requirements.
      (2)   Unless matched to a specific cash flow, the village will not
directly invest in securities maturing more than one year from the date of
purchase.
   (B)   Reserve funds may be invested in securities exceeding one year if the
maturity of such investments are made to coincide as nearly as practicable with
the expected use of the funds.
(Ord. 99-7, passed - -)
§ 32.42  INTERNAL CONTROL.
   (A)   The Clerk is responsible for establishing and maintaining an internal
control structure designed to insure that the assets of the entity are
protected from loss, theft, or misuse. The internal control structure shall be
designed to provide reasonable assurance that these objectives are met.
   (B)   The internal controls shall address the following points:
      (1)   Control of collusion;
      (2)   Separation of transaction authority from accounting;
      (3)   Custodial safekeeping; and
      (4)   Written confirmation of telephone transactions for investment and
wire transfers.
(Ord. 99-7, passed - -)
§ 32.43  PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   This investment portfolio will be managed in accordance with the parameters
specified within this subchapter. The portfolio should obtain a comparable rate
of return during a market/economic environment of stable interest rates.
Portfolio performance should be compared to benchmarks with similar maturity,
liquidity, and credit quality as the portfolio.
(Ord. 99-7, passed - -)
§ 32.44  REPORTING.
   (A)   The Clerk shall prepare an investment report at least monthly.
   (B)   The report should be provided to the Board of Trustees and available
on request. The report should be in a format suitable for review by the general
public.
   (C)   An annual report should also be provided to the Board.
(Ord. 99-7, passed - -)
§ 32.45  QUARTERLY MARKET VALUE REPORT.
   A statement of the market value of the portfolio shall be issued to the
Board of Trustees quarterly.
(Ord. 99-7, passed - -)
§ 32.46  ADOPTION.
   The investment policy shall be adopted by the Board of Trustees. The policy
shall be reviewed on an annual basis by the Clerk, and any modifications made
thereto must be approved by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 99-7, passed - -)
CHAPTER 33:  GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Vacancies in office
   
33.02   Fees and salaries
Bid Procedures
   
33.15   Competitive bidding required
   
33.16   Formal contract procedure
   
33.17   Notice inviting bids
   
33.18   Scope of notice
   
33.19   Deposits
   
33.20   Opening procedures
   
33.21   Rejection
   
33.22   Bidders in default
   
33.23   Award of contract
   
33.24   Open market procedure
   
33.25   Exempt from bidding; professional services
   
33.26   Emergency purchases
   
33.27   Cooperative purchasing
Identity Protection
   
33.40   Identity Protection Policy
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01  VACANCIES IN OFFICE.
   (A)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of President, and there remains an
unexpired portion of the term, and the vacancy occurs before the general
municipal election next scheduled under the general election law, then the
Board of Trustees shall fill the vacancy by electing an Acting President from
the members of the Board of Trustees. The Acting President shall perform the
duties and possess all the rights and powers of the President until a successor
to fill the vacancy has been elected and qualified. The Village Clerk shall
certify the office to be filled and the candidates for the office to the proper
election authorities as provided in the general election law.
   (B)   If the vacancy is in any other elective municipal office and there
remains an unexpired portion of the term, and the vacancy occurs before the
general municipal election next scheduled under the general election law, the
President, or Acting President as the case may be, shall appoint a qualified
person to the office, subject to the advice and consent of the Trustees, until
the office is filled by election. The Village Clerk shall certify the office to
be filled, and the candidates to proper election authorities, as provided in
the general election law.
(Prior Code, § 1-9)  (Ord. 15-, passed 6-1-2015)
§ 33.02  FEES AND SALARIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Village President shall receive an annual salary of $1,750,
payable bi-monthly.
      (2)   The Village President shall also receive a salary of $40 for each
special meeting.
(Prior Code, § 22-1)
   (B)   (1)   The Village Clerk shall receive an annual salary of $2,534,
payable bi-monthly.
      (2)   The Village Clerk shall also receive a salary of $40 for each
special meeting.
(Prior Code, § 22-2)
   (C)   The Village Trustees shall each receive a salary of $40 per regular
meeting and $40 for special meetings, payable bi-monthly.
(Prior Code, § 22-4)
   (D)   The Village Superintendent of Streets shall receive an annual salary
of $26,000 as compensation for all services rendered by him or her as such
Superintendent of Streets and Waterworks, such salary to be in equal monthly
installments, plus three weeks vacation.
(Prior Code, § 22-5)
   (E)   (1)   The salary of the Village Attorney shall be established by
resolution of the Board of Trustees annually.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may further, by resolution, pay additional
expenses and fees of the Village Attorney as from time to time may appear to be
reasonable and necessary.
(Prior Code, § 22-6)  (Ord. 05-01, passed 1-3-2005)
BID PROCEDURES
§ 33.15  COMPETITIVE BIDDING REQUIRED.
   Any work or other public improvement which is not to be paid for in whole or
in part by special assessment or special taxation, and all purchases of, and
contracts for, supplies, materials, and services shall, except as specifically
provided herein, be based whenever possible on competitive bids.
(Prior Code, § 27-1)
§ 33.16  FORMAL CONTRACT PROCEDURE.
   All work or other public improvement which is not to be paid for in whole or
in part by special assessment or special taxation, and all purchases, orders,
or contracts for supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services, except
as otherwise provided herein, when the estimated cost thereof shall exceed
$5,000, shall be purchased from the lowest responsible bidder, after due notice
inviting bids, unless competitive bidding is waived by a vote of two-thirds of
the Trustees then holding office.
(Prior Code, § 27-2)
§ 33.17  NOTICE INVITING BIDS.
   Notice inviting bids shall be published at least once in a newspaper with
general circulation within the village. The village shall also advertise all
pending work or purchases by posting a notice on the public bulletin board in
the Village Hall.
(Prior Code, § 27-3)
§ 33.18  SCOPE OF NOTICE.
   The newspaper notice required herein shall include a general description of
the work to be performed or the articles to be purchased, shall state where
specifications may be secured, and the time and place for opening bids.
(Prior Code, § 27-4)
§ 33.19  DEPOSITS.
   When deemed necessary by the Board of Trustees, bid deposits shall be
prescribed in the public notices inviting bids. Unsuccessful bidders shall be
entitled to the return of their bid deposits upon the award of the contract by
the Board of Trustees. A successful bidder shall forfeit any bid deposit
required by the Board of Trustees upon failure on his or her part to enter into
a contract within ten days after the award.
(Prior Code, § 27-5)
§ 33.20  OPENING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Sealed. Bids shall be submitted sealed to the village and shall be
identified as bids on the envelope.
   (B)   Opening. Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place stated
in the public notice.
   (C)   Tabulation. A tabulation of all bids received shall be made by the
Board of Trustees or by a village employee, in which event a tabulation of the
bids shall be furnished to the Board of Trustees at its next regular meeting.
(Prior Code, § 27-6)
§ 33.21  REJECTION.
   The village shall have the authority to reject all bids or parts of all bids
when the public interest will be served thereby.
(Prior Code, § 27-7)
§ 33.22  BIDDERS IN DEFAULT.
   The village shall not accept the bid of a contractor who is in default on
the payment of taxes, licenses, or other monies due the village.
(Prior Code, § 27-8)
§ 33.23  AWARD OF CONTRACT.
   (A)   Authority in village. The Board of Trustees shall have the authority
to award contracts within the purview of this section.
   (B)   Lowest responsible bidder. Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder on the basis of the bid that is in the best interest of the
village to accept. In awarding the contract, in addition to price, the Board of
Trustees shall consider:
      (1)   The ability, capacity, and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract to provide the service required;
      (2)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the service
promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
      (3)   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience, and
efficiency of the bidder;
      (4)   The quality of the performance of previous contracts or services;
      (5)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder, with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract or service;
      (6)   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the service;
      (7)   The quality, availability, and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required;
      (8)   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and service
for the use of the subject of the contract; and
      (9)   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid.
   (C)   Performance bonds. The Board of Trustees shall have the authority to
require a performance bond, before entering into a contract, in such amounts as
it shall find reasonably necessary to protect the best interests of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 27-9)
§ 33.24  OPEN MARKET PROCEDURE.
   All work and purchases of supplies, materials, and services of less than the
estimated value of $4,000 shall be made in the open market, without newspaper
advertisement and without observing the procedure prescribed by this subchapter
for the award of formal contracts.
(Prior Code, § 27-10)
§ 33.25  EXEMPT FROM BIDDING; PROFESSIONAL SERVICES.
   All contracts for professional services including, but not limited to,
attorneys, engineers, real estate appraisers, and architects, and any other
profession whose ethical code involved prohibits or discourages involvement in
normal bidding procedures, may be entered into by the village without observing
the bidding procedures prescribed by this section for the award of formal
contract.
(Prior Code, § 27-11)
§ 33.26  EMERGENCY PURCHASES.
   In case of an apparent emergency which requires immediate work or purchase
of supplies, materials, or services, the Board of Trustees shall be empowered
to secure by open market procedure as herein set forth, at the lowest
obtainable price, any work, supplies, materials, or services regardless of the
amount of the expenditure.
(Prior Code, § 27-12)
§ 33.27  COOPERATIVE PURCHASING.
   The village shall have the authority to join with other units of government
in cooperative purchasing plans when the best interest of the village would be
served thereby.
(Prior Code, § 27-13)
IDENTITY PROTECTION
§ 33.40  IDENTITY PROTECTION POLICY.
   (A)   The village adopts this Identity Protection Policy pursuant to the
Identity Protection Act, 5 ILCS 179/1 et seq. The Identity Protection Act
requires each local and state government agency to draft, approve, and
implement an Identity Protection Policy to ensure the confidentiality and
integrity of Social Security numbers agencies collect, maintain, and use. It is
important to safeguard Social Security numbers (SSNs) against unauthorized
access because SSNs can be used to facilitate identity theft. One way to better
protect SSNs is to limit the widespread dissemination of those numbers. The
Identity Protection Act was passed in part to require local and state
government agencies to assess their personal information collection practices,
and make necessary changes to those practices to ensure confidentiality.
   (B)   Whenever an individual is asked to provide this office with a SSN, the
village shall provide that individual with a statement of the purpose or
purposes for which the village is collecting and using the Social Security
number. The village shall also provide the statement of purpose upon request.
   (C)   The village shall not:
      (1)   Publicly post or publicly display in any manner an individual’s
Social Security number. PUBLICLY POST or PUBLICLY DISPLAY means to
intentionally communicate or otherwise intentionally make available to the
general public;
      (2)   Print an individual’s Social Security number on any card required
for the individual to access products or services provided by the person or
entity;
      (3)   Require an individual to transmit a Social Security number over the
Internet, unless the connection is secure, or the Social Security number is
encrypted; and
      (4)   Print an individual’s Social Security number on any materials that
are mailed to the individual, through the U.S. Postal Service, any private mail
service, electronic mail, or any similar method of delivery, unless state or
federal law requires the Social Security number to be on the document to be
mailed. SSNs may be included in applications and forms sent by mail, including,
but not limited to, any material mailed in connection with the administration
of the Unemployment Insurance Act, being 820 ILCS 405, any material mailed in
connection with any tax administered by the Department of Revenue, and
documents sent as part of an application or enrollment process, or to
establish, amend, or terminate an account, contract, or policy, or to confirm
the accuracy of the Social Security number. A Social Security number that is
permissibly mailed will not be printed, in whole or in part, on a postcard or
other mailer that does not require an envelope, or be visible on an envelope
without the envelope having been opened.
   (D)   In addition, the village shall not:
      (1)   Collect, use, or disclose a Social Security number from an
individual, unless:
         (a)   Required to do so under state or federal law, rules, or
regulations, or the collection, use, or disclosure of the Social Security
number is otherwise necessary for the performance of the village’s duties and
responsibilities;
         (b)   The need and purpose for the Social Security number is
documented before collection of the Social Security number; and
         (c)   The Social Security number collected is relevant to the
documented need and purpose.
      (2)   Require an individual to use his or her Social Security number to
access an Internet website.
      (3)   Use the Social Security number for any purpose other than the
purpose for which it was collected.
   (E)   (1)   The village shall comply with the provisions of any other state
law with respect to allowing the public inspection and copying of information
or documents containing all or any portion of an individual’s Social Security
number. The village shall redact Social Security numbers from the information
or documents before allowing the public inspection or copying of the
information or documents.
      (2)   When collecting Social Security numbers, the village shall request
each SSN in a manner that makes the SSN easily redacted if required to be
released as part of a public records request. REDACT means to alter or truncate
data so that no more than five sequential digits of a Social Security number
are accessible as part of personal information.
   (F)   Only employees who are required to use or handle information or
documents that contain SSN will have access. All employees who have access to
SSNs are trained to protect the confidentiality of SSNs.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 3-7-2011)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER SYSTEM POLICIES AND FEES
CHAPTER 50:  WATER SYSTEM POLICIES AND FEES
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Turning on water
   
50.02   Application
   
50.03   Resale
   
50.04   Tampering
   
50.05   Owner responsibility
   
50.06   Definition
   
50.07   Recordation
Service Pipes
   
50.20   Installation
   
50.21   Pipes
   
50.22   Repairs
   
50.23   Excavations
Meters, Rates
   
50.35   Meters required
   
50.36   Installation
   
50.37   Reading and testing meters
   
50.38   Rates
   
50.39   Bills
   
50.40   Inspection
Fees and Deposits
   
50.55   Deposit
   
50.56   Service connection; fees
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01  TURNING ON WATER.
   No water from the village water supply shall be turned on for service into
any premises by any person but the Superintendent, or some person authorized by
him or her to perform this service.
(Prior Code, § 29-101)  (Ord. 12-01, passed 2-5-2012)
§ 50.02  APPLICATION.
   Applications to have water turned on shall be made in writing to the
Superintendent, and shall contain an agreement by the applicant to abide by and
accept all of the provisions of this chapter as conditions governing the use of
village water supply.
(Prior Code, § 29-102)  (Ord. 12-01, passed 2-5-2012)
§ 50.03  RESALE.
   No water shall be resold or distributed by the recipient thereof from the
village water supply to any premises other than that for which application has
been made and the meter installed, except in case of emergency, or by special
agreement with the Village Board after presentation of written application.
(Prior Code, § 29-105)  (Ord. 12-01, passed 2-5-2012)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04  TAMPERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the Superintendent to
tamper with, alter, or injure any part of the village water works or supply
system, or any meter.
(Prior Code, § 29-106)  (Ord. 12-01, passed 2-5-2012)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05  OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner of the premises to be served shall be responsible for the payment
of all charges for water services thereto, and said owner, and the person or
entity in possession of the premises if other than the owner, severally and
jointly, shall accept and abide by all of the provisions of this chapter, or of
any other ordinances, rules, regulations, and directives of the village
applicable to water service. The owner shall also meet all applicable
requirements of the state including, but not limited to, those contained in the
EPA rules for public water supplies (35 I.A.C. parts 651 through 654) and the
Illinois Plumbing Code (77 I.A.C. part 890).
(Prior Code, § 29-109)  (Ord. 12-01, passed 2-5-2012; Ord. passed 3-1-2010)
§ 50.06  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The person employed by the village as its certified water
supply operator, or any person designated by said certified water supply
operator to discharge his or her duties pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 29-310)  (Ord. 12-01, passed 2-5-2012)
§ 50.07  RECORDATION.
   A copy of this title, properly certified by the Village Clerk, shall be
filed in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county, and shall be deemed
notice to all owners of real estate of their liability for service applied to
any user of the service of the water works system of said village on their
properties, and it shall be the duty of the Village Clerk, and such other
officers of this village, to take all action necessary or required by the law
of the state hereunto enabling to file all claims and liens for money due to
the village for which payment has become delinquent.
(Prior Code, § 29-401)  (Ord. 12-01, passed 2-5-2012)
SERVICE PIPES
§ 50.20  INSTALLATION.
   (A)   All service pipes from the curb stop to the premises served shall be
installed by, and at the cost of, the owner of the property to be served, or
the applicant for the service.
   (B)   Such installation shall be under the supervision of the
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 29-201)  (Ord. 12-01, passed 2-5-2012)
§ 50.21  PIPES.
   No service shall be installed unless it conforms to the specifications of
the State Plumbing Code, which is hereby adopted, three copies of which are
kept on file in the office of the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 29-202)  (Ord. 12-01, passed 2-5-2012)
§ 50.22  REPAIRS.
   All repairs for service pipes and plumbing systems of buildings shall be
made by, and at the expense of, the owners of the premises served. The village
may, in case of an emergency, repair any service pipes and if this is done, the
cost of such repair work shall be repaid to the village by the owner of the
premises served.
(Prior Code, § 29-203)  (Ord. 12-01, passed 2-5-2012)
§ 50.23  EXCAVATIONS.
   Excavations for installing service pipes or repairing the same shall be made
in compliance with the provisions of the village ordinances relating to
excavations in streets.
(Prior Code, § 29-204)  (Ord. 12-01, passed 2-5-2012)
METERS, RATES
§ 50.35  METERS REQUIRED.
   All premises using the village water supply must be equipped with an
adequate water meter, furnished by the village, but paid for by the consumer.
The minimum size permitted shall be a three-quarter inch meter.
(Prior Code, § 29-301)  (Ord. 12-01, passed 2-5-2012)
§ 50.36  INSTALLATION.
   Meters shall be installed in a location that is approximately on the
property line. Meters may be installed within a house if the Superintendent
approves of the location of the meter prior to its installation within the
house. If installed within a house, the meter must be in a convenient location
for access and reading by the meter reader.
(Prior Code, § 29-302)  (Ord. 12-01, passed 2-5-2012)
§ 50.37  READING AND TESTING METERS.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall read, or cause to be read, every meter used
in the village at such times as is necessary that the bills may be sent out at
the proper time.
(Prior Code, § 29-303)
   (B)   All village water meters shall be taken out and tested upon the
complaint of the consumer, upon payment of a fee of $10. If upon the test the
meter is not within 3% of accurate, it shall be repaired and the $10 fee
returned to the consumer.
(Prior Code, § 29-304)  (Ord. 12-01, passed 2-5-2012)
§ 50.38  RATES.
   (A)   The rates to be charged to private consumers (to include residents and
nonresidents) in the said village for water supplied from the municipal water
plant of said village shall be ascertained according to the classification of
the consumer and to the amount of water used during the month for which the
charge is made, and shall be graduated as follows:
      (1)   Private consumers within the village limits:
         (a)   One thousand gallons or less per month: $30 with a minimum of
$30; and
         (b)   Over 1,000 gallons per month: $4.25 per 1,000 gallons, or a part
thereof.
      (2)   Private consumers outside the village limits:
         (a)   One thousand gallons or less per month: $35 with a minimum of
$35; and
   (b)   Over 1,000 gallons per month: $7.25 per 1,000 gallons, or a part
thereof.
   (B)   All municipal corporations and political subdivisions of the state
located in the village shall be exempt from the payment of any fee or rate for
the water used by said municipal corporation and political subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 29-305)  (Ord. passed 2-5-2007; Ord. 12-01, passed 2-5-2012)
§ 50.39  BILLS.
   (A)   Bills for water used shall be mailed on the first and second day of
each month.
   (B)   Upon an account becoming delinquent, the Village Water Collector
provides the Board at the monthly Board meeting with a list of names of water
consumers who are delinquent and the amount of the delinquency, and shall
inform the consumer by letter mailed to the consumer’s current address.
   (C)   All water bills are due and payable to the Village Water Collector on
the fifteenth day of the month in which the bill was mailed to the consumer. A
water bill shall be deemed delinquent if it remains unpaid after the fifteenth
day of said month. Upon an account becoming delinquent, the Village Water
Collector shall inform the consumer by letter mailed to the consumer’s current
address, if known, and to the address at which water service is being or has
been supplied, that the water service will be discontinued unless the bill is
paid in full by the last day of the month.
   (D)   The Village Clerk is empowered to take all legal steps necessary to
perfect a lien against any property served by the Village Water Service which
has a delinquent water bill pending. The Village Clerk shall be authorized to
initiate a collection action in court for the collection of unpaid water bills.
If such collection action is filed, the person, firm, or corporation owing the
funds shall pay reasonable costs of collection, including attorney’s fees.
(Prior Code, § 29-306)  (Ord. 12-01, passed 2-5-2012)
§ 50.40  INSPECTION.
   The Superintendent, or his or her designated representative, is hereby
authorized to inspect each premises having a water meter installed within it on
an annual basis. In addition, should the Superintendent, or his or her
designated representative, have reason to believe that the premises has a
faulty water meter, he or she may then inspect the premises for said faulty
meter.
(Prior Code § 29-308)  (Ord. 12-01, passed 2-5-2012)
FEES AND DEPOSITS
§ 50.55  DEPOSIT.
   A deposit of $100 shall be made with each application. This sum is to be
retained by the village to insure payment of all bills. When service to the
applicant is discontinued permanently, this deposit, less any amount still
owing to the village for water service, shall be refunded, provided that, where
any applicant for water service is the owner of the premises to be served, no
such deposit shall be required.
(Prior Code, § 29-103)  (Ord. passed 1-4-2010; Ord. 12-01, passed 2-5-2012)
§ 50.56  SERVICE CONNECTION; FEES.
   (A)   (1)   All connections shall be made by or under the supervision of the
Superintendent.
      (2)   Before connection is made with the water distribution system, the
premises to be served must be equipped with a meter properly installed. Each
apartment in any multiple family dwelling shall have a separate connection to
the village water distribution system, and each apartment shall have a separate
water meter. No installation shall be covered until it has been inspected by
the Superintendent and found to be satisfactory.
      (3)   Each dwelling, including mobile homes and double-wide houses, is to
be serviced by an individual service line and water meter. Any existing lot
which is subdivided in whole or in part that establishes a secondary dwelling
on said lot must have a separate service line and meter to any and all primary
and secondary dwellings. All secondary dwellings must have an attachment with
an individual service line and water meter to the village water supply, and may
not have water service which is attached to the primary dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 29-104)
   (B)   A service connection fee of $250 shall be payable to the village prior
to any connection being made with the water distribution system. A separate fee
shall be paid for each separate service line and water meter required by the
Water Code.
(Prior Code, § 29-108)  (Ord. passed 10- -2000; Ord. 12-01, passed 2-5-2012)
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of a petty offense, and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during, or on which, a violation occurs or
continues.
(Prior Code, §§ 29-107 and 29-205)
   (B)    Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §§
50.35 through
50.40, including failing to pay his or her water bill, shall be guilty of a
petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 29-309)
   (C)   A penalty of $20 shall be added to all bills not paid prior to the day
they become delinquent. A $20 service charge shall be assessed for all checks
returned for insufficient funds. Water bills paid by checks which are returned
uncollected shall be deemed unpaid, and the consumer shall be notified as
provided above.
(Prior Code, § 29-306)
   (D)   The water supply may be shut off for any premises for which the water
bill becomes delinquent. After disconnection, such service shall not be renewed
except upon the payment of the total water bill due and owing, plus a penalty
of $50 for restoration of the water service. Water service will only be
restored or disconnected between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. of each
day excepting Sunday and holidays, unless the Superintendent directs otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 29-307)  (Ord. passed 1-4-2010; Ord. 12-01, passed 2-5-2012)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  TRAFFIC AND PARKING
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
Standard Regulations; Parking
   
70.15   Regulation
   
70.16   Residential parking
   
70.17   Direction of parking
   
70.18   Double parking
   
70.19   Prohibited parking; alleyways
   
70.20   Parking of school buses, tractors, trailers
Standard Regulations; Traffic
   
70.35   Operational times; trailers and tractors
   
70.36   Tractor and trailer route regulations
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ROAD TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other
vehicles and not so constructed as to carry any loads thereon, either
independently or any part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
   SEMI-TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying
persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle, and so constructed
that some part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is carried by
another vehicle.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power and operation designed for
carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle, and so
constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
   TRUCK TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed to be used primarily for drawing
other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
(Prior Code, § 28-6)
STANDARD REGULATIONS; PARKING
§ 70.15  REGULATION.
   No vehicle may be parked within the corporate limits of the village except
as provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 28-1)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.16  RESIDENTIAL PARKING.
   Except as is otherwise provided herein, no vehicle may be parked within the
corporate limits of the village, except by parking which is parallel to the
direction of traffic, and is as far removed from the lane of traffic as is
practicable.
(Prior Code, § 28-3)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17  DIRECTION OF PARKING.
   No vehicle may be parked along Highway Avenue within the corporate limits of
the village except upon the right side thereof.
(Prior Code, § 28-4)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18  DOUBLE PARKING.
   No vehicle may be double parked within the village.
(Prior Code, § 28-5)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19  PROHIBITED PARKING; ALLEYWAYS.
   The owner and the operator of a motor vehicle shall be prohibited from
parking his or her motor vehicle at all times in all of the alleys within the
village.
(Prior Code, § 28-7)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20  PARKING OF SCHOOL BUSES, TRACTORS, TRAILERS.
   No person shall park any road tractor, semi-trailer, truck tractor, trailer,
or any other second division vehicle, either on public or private property,
within the village, except in districts zoned for business or general
industrial, provided, however, school buses owned and operated under the
authority of the local school district may be parked at the residence of the
operator of said school bus, providing that, when parked, said school bus is
entirely parked on private property with no portion of the bus occupying the
street or alley adjoining the property.
(Prior Code, § 28-6)  (Ord. 09-02, passed 7-6-2009)  Penalty, §
70.99
STANDARD REGULATIONS; TRAFFIC
§ 70.35  OPERATIONAL TIMES; TRAILERS AND TRACTORS.
   A person may, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., operate a
tractor, semi-trailer, truck tractor, trailer, or second division vehicle on
any public street within the village for purpose of  delivering property to the
residents of the village.
(Prior Code, § 28-6)
§ 70.36  TRUCK AND TRAILER ROUTE REGULATIONS.
   No person shall operate any road tractor, semitrailer, truck tractor,
trailer, and farm wagons hauling grain, as well as all other second division
vehicles, at any time on any streets other than the designated truck route.
(Prior Code, § 28-6)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Each person who parks a vehicle or owns a vehicle that is parked
otherwise than as is provided in this chapter shall be guilty of a petty
offense.
(Prior Code, § 28-8)
CHAPTER 71:  RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Non-Highway Vehicles
   
71.01   Operation
   
71.02   Requirements
   
71.03   Lights
   
71.04   Insurance
   
71.05   Lawn mowers
   
71.06   Signs
Golf Carts
   
71.20   Operation
   
71.21   Requirements
   
71.22   Lights
   
71.23   Signs
Snowmobiles
   
71.35   Purpose
   
71.36   Definitions
   
71.37   Regulations
 
   
71.99   Penalty
NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES
§ 71.01  OPERATION.
   The operation of non-highway vehicles is hereby authorized on the village
streets from dawn until dusk, subject to the restrictions set forth below.
(Ord. 10-07, passed 3-7-2010)
§ 71.02  REQUIREMENTS.
   In order to be operated on the village streets, each non-highway vehicle
must have the following: equipment brakes; a steering apparatus; tires; a
rearview mirror; red reflectorized warning devices on the front and rear; a
slow moving emblem (as required of other vehicles in 625 ILCS 5/12-709 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code) on the rear of the non-highway vehicle; a headlight that
emits a white light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front; a
taillight that emits a red light visible from at least 100 feet from the rear;
brake lights; and turn signals.
(Ord. 10-07, passed 3-7-2010)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03  LIGHTS.
   When operated on a village street, the non-highway vehicle shall have its
headlight and tail lamps lighted, as required by 625 ILCS 5/11-1426.1(e) and
625 ILCS 5/12-201 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 10-07, passed 3-7-2010)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04  INSURANCE.
   (A)   Any person who operates a non-highway vehicle on a village street
shall be subject to the mandatory insurance requirements under Article 6 of
Chapter 7 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/7-601 to 5/7-610.
   (B)   A person shall not operate a non-highway vehicle upon any street of
this village unless he or she has a valid Illinois driver’s license issued in
his or her name by the Secretary of State.
(Ord. 10-07, passed 3-7-2010)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05  LAWN MOWERS.
   Persons operating lawn mowers are exempt from the restrictions of this
subchapter while moving from yard to yard in order to mow said yards.
(Ord. 10-07, passed 3-7-2010)
§ 71.06  SIGNS.
   The village shall post appropriate signs with regard to this subchapter.
(Ord. 10-07, passed 3-7-2010)
GOLF CARTS
§ 71.20  OPERATION.
   (A)   Except for Highway Avenue, the operation of golf carts is hereby
authorized on the village streets, subject to the restrictions set forth below.
   (B)   Golf carts may make a direct crossing of Highway Avenue at any
intersection of Highway Avenue and a village street.
   (C)   However, said crossing shall be as direct as possible.
   (D)   When crossing Highway Avenue, each golf cart should yield to all
cross-traffic.
(Ord. 08-05, passed 8-4-2008)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.21  REQUIREMENTS.
   In order to be operated on the village streets, each golf cart must have the
following: equipment brakes; a steering apparatus; tires; a rearview mirror;
red reflectorized warning devices on the front and rear; a slow moving emblem
(as required of other vehicles in 625 ILCS 5/12-709 of the Illinois Vehicle
Code) on the rear of the golf cart; a headlight that emits a white light
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front; a taillight that emits a red
light visible from at least 100 feet from the rear; brake lights; and turn
signals.
(Ord. 08-05, passed 8-4-2008)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.22  LIGHTS.
   When operated on a village street, the golf cart shall have its headlight
and tail lamps lighted, as required by § 12-1201 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 08-05, passed 8-4-2008)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.23  SIGNS.
   The village shall post appropriate signs with regard to this subchapter.
(Ord. 08-05, passed 8-4-2008)
SNOWMOBILES
§ 71.35  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish the regulations for the
operation of snowmobiles within the corporate limits of the village, to provide
for the enforcement thereof, and to provide the penalties for the violation of
said regulations.
(Prior Code, § 26-1)
§ 71.36  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEAD MAN THROTTLE. A device which disengages the motor from the driving
track of a snowmobile when pressure is removed from the accelerator or
throttle.
   ROADWAY. Portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular traffic.
   SIDEWALK. Portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral lines of
a roadway and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of pedestrians.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any self-propelled vehicle weighing less than 1,000 pounds which
utilizes wheels with low pressure tires and is designed to operate on land or
ice, or is equipped with sled type runners or skis, endless belt-type tread, or
any combination thereof, and is designed for travel upon snow, land, or ice,
except any vehicle registered as a motor vehicle.
   SPEED LIMIT. The speed prescribed by either the ordinances of the village or
the statutes of the state, which is the maximum speed a motor vehicle may
travel on a particular street, whether posted or not, but in no case shall it
exceed 25 mph.
   STREET.  The entire width between property lines of every way or place or
whatever nature, platted and dedicated as public right-of-way.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, markings, signals, and other devices
placed or erected by authority of a public body of officials having
jurisdiction for the purpose of guiding, directing, warning, or regulating
traffic.
(Prior Code, § 26-2)
§ 71.37  REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations are hereby established for the operation of
snowmobiles within the corporate limits of the village.
   (A)   No person shall operate a snowmobile on private property without the
permission of the owner, or party in possession by consent of the owner.
   (B)   No person shall operate a snowmobile in the village, except during the
hours from 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
   (C)   No person under 16 years of age shall operate a snowmobile in the
village, except on private property with the owner’s permission.
   (D)   An operator of a snowmobile on any roadway shall obey all traffic
laws, control devices, and the orders of all authorized persons directing
traffic.
   (E)   No person shall operate a snowmobile in such a way to cause excessive
noise. A snowmobile shall not be operating without suitable and effective
muffling devices which limit engine noise.
   (F)   No person shall operate a snowmobile without a safety, or “Dead Man
Throttle”, in operating condition.
   (G)   All snowmobiles within the village limits shall have at least one head
light and one taillight.
(Prior Code, § 26-3)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   The violation of §§
71.01 through
71.06 shall be a petty offense as set forth in the village ordinances.
   (C)   The violation of §§
71.20 through
71.23 shall be a petty offense as set forth in the village ordinances. The
minimum fine for said offense shall be $75.
   (D)   Any person who violates the provisions of §§
71.35 through
71.37 shall be guilty of a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 26-4) (Ord. 08-05, passed 8-4-2008; Ord. 10-07, passed 3-7-2010)
CHAPTER 72:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Truck routes
      
II.   Snowmobile routes
SCHEDULE I.  TRUCK ROUTES.
   The following streets are hereby designated as truck routes:
   (A)   Third Street, east of Highway Avenue;
   (B)   Highway Avenue;
   (C)   South Third Street, west of Highway Avenue; and
   (D)   Railroad Street between Eastern Avenue and Illinois Avenue.
(Prior Code, § 28-6)
SCHEDULE II.  SNOWMOBILE ROUTES.
   Snowmobiles may be operated on Western Avenue from North Fourth Street to
south corporate limits, and North Third Street from Western Avenue to east
corporate limits. Any residents not adjacent to a designated route will be
allowed to take the most direct public route to a designated route.
(Prior Code, § 26-3)
CHAPTER 73:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Section
      
I.   Truck parking; times
      
II.   Downtown parking; times
      
III.   Restricted parking; alleyways
      
IV.   Restricted parking; downtown
SCHEDULE I.  TRUCK PARKING; TIMES.
   A person may, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., temporarily park
a tractor, semi-trailer, truck tractor, trailer, or second division vehicle on
any public street within the village for the purpose of delivering property to
the residents of the village.
(Prior Code, § 28-6)
SCHEDULE II.  DOWNTOWN PARKING; TIMES.
   No vehicle may be parked between Third Street on the north to the former
railroad right-of-way on the south of Highway Avenue, excepting head in angle
parking, where designated by painted lines, between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and
6:00 a.m. local time.
(Prior Code, § 28-2)  (Ord. 2005-05, passed 9-6-2005)
SCHEDULE III.  RESTRICTED PARKING; ALLEYWAYS.
   (A)   Parking shall be prohibited at all times in all of the alleys within
the village, for which the owner and the operator of the vehicle shall be
deemed to have committed a petty offense.
   (B)   The alleys in which parking is prohibited are identified as follows:
      (1)   The alleys as platted in Blocks 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,
12, 13, 15, and 16 of the Original Town of De Land, situated in the county;
      (2)   The alleys as contained in Blocks B and C of Bondurant’s
Subdivision of Lot 1 to the village, situated in the county;
      (3)   The alleys as contained in Blocks 1, 2 and 3 of Bondurant’s First
Addition to the village, situated in the county;
      (4)   The alleys as contained in Blocks 1 and 2 of Bondurant’s Second
Addition to the village, situated in the county;
      (5)   The alleys as contained in Blocks 1, 2, 3 and 4 of Marquiss First
Addition to the village, situated in the county; and
      (6)   The alleys as contained in Blocks 1 and 2 of Wm. Dewees’ Addition
to the village, situated in the county.
(Ord. 96-1, passed 2-5-1996)
SCHEDULE IV.  RESTRICTED PARKING; DOWNTOWN.
   (A)   The village considers it a matter of public safety to limit the
parking in the downtown area of the village during certain hours of the day.
   (B)   No vehicle may be parked between Third Street on the North to the
former railroad right-of-way on the South of Highway Avenue, De Land, Illinois,
excepting head in angle parking where designated by painted lines.
(Prior Code, § 28-2)  (Ord. 2005-05, passed 9-6-2005)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
CHAPTER 90:  HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances Generally
   
90.01   Prohibition
   
90.02   Notice
   
90.03   Non-summary abatement
   
90.04   Summary abatement
   
90.05   Lien
   
90.06   Foreclosure of lien
Specific Nuisances
   
90.20   Excavations
   
90.21   Unsafe scaffolds
   
90.22   Unsafe signs
   
90.23   Unsafe buildings
   
90.24   Cellar and trap doors
   
90.25   Billboards
   
90.26   Barbed wire fences
   
90.27   Loitering
 
   
90.99   Penalty
NUISANCES GENERALLY
§ 90.01  PROHIBITION.
   The following acts, conduct, and conditions are hereby declared and defined
to be nuisances, and when committed, performed, or permitted to exist by any
individual, firm, association, or corporation within the territorial limits of
the village, are hereby declared to be unlawful and prohibited:
   (A)   Any act or offense which is a nuisance according to the common law of
the state, or declared or defined to be a nuisance by the ordinances of the
village. In addition, the officials of the municipality shall be authorized to
abate any nuisance which, while not specifically defined within this chapter,
shall constitute the unreasonable, unwarrantable, or unlawful use by a person
of property real or personal, or from his or her own improper, indecent, or
unlawful personal conduct, which works an obstruction or injury to a right of
another or of the public, and produces such material annoyance, inconvenience,
discomfort, or hurt that the law will presume an actionable nuisance. Nuisances
may be abated which are public, or which are both public and private in nature;
   (B)   To cause or suffer the carcass of any animal or any offal, filth, or
noisome substance to be collected, deposited, or to remain in any place under
his or her ownership or control to the prejudice of others;
   (C)   To throw or deposit any offal or other offensive matter, or the
carcass of any dead animal in any watercourse, lake, pond, spring, well, or
common sewer, street, or public highway;
   (D)   To corrupt, or render unwholesome or impure, the water of any spring,
river, stream, pond, or lake, to the injury or prejudice of others;
   (E)   To obstruct or encroach upon public highways, private ways, streets,
alleys, commons, landing places, and ways to burying places;
   (F)   To erect, continue, or use any building or other place for the
exercise of any trade, employment, or manufacture, which by occasioning noxious
exhalations, offensive smells, or otherwise, is offensive or dangerous to the
health of individuals or of the public;
   (G)   To advertise wares or occupation by painting notices of the same on,
or affixing them to, fences, walls, windows, building exteriors, utility poles,
or on hydrants, other public or private property, or on rocks or other natural
objects, without the consent of the owner, or if in the highway or other public
place, without permission of the proper authorities;
   (H)   To harass, intimidate, or threaten any person who is about to sell or
lease, or has sold or leased, a residence or other real property, or is about
to buy or lease, or has bought or leased, a residence or other real property,
when the harassment, intimidation, or threat relates to a persons’ attempt to
sell, buy, or lease a residence or other real property, or refers to a persons’
sale, purchase, or lease of a residence or other real property;
   (I)   To dump, abandon, deposit, dismantle, or burn upon any public
property, or right-of-way, highway, park, street, or parkway anywhere in the
village any trash, garbage, ashes, junk, junked or wrecked motor vehicles, or
parts thereof, or miscellaneous waste;
   (J)   To store, keep, or maintain outside of a closed building or property
under his or her ownership or control any junk, parts, machinery, or equipment
not in an operable condition, or motor vehicle not in an operable condition,
provided, however, that this provision shall not apply to a properly licensed
junk yard;
   (K)   To own, maintain, or keep a dwelling unit unfit for human habitation,
or dangerous or detrimental to life, safety, or health because of lack of
repair, defects in the plumbing system, lighting or ventilation, the existence
of contagious diseases, or unsanitary conditions likely to cause sickness among
persons residing in said premises or residing in proximity thereof;
   (L)   To store or place any garbage or debris on private property, or any
materials in any manner which may harbor rats;
   (M)   To produce or permit to be produced, whether on public or private
property, any offensive noise to the disturbance of the peace or quiet of any
person residing in the vicinity;
   (N)   To permit any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle,
cocklebur, or other weeds of a like kind, to grow or remain in any lot or tract
of land in the village under his or her ownership or control;
   (O)   To permit any weeds, grass, or plants, other than trees, bushes,
flowers, or other ornamental plants, to grow to a height exceeding six inches
on any lot anywhere in the village under his or her ownership or control;
   (P)   To place, erect, or maintain any obstruction in or across any water
course, stream, brook, or ravine within the village so as to cause water to
stand and stagnate therein; and
   (Q)   To keep upon property under his or her ownership or control two or
more motor vehicles, whether on public or private property, without a current
valid registration and license plates properly displayed on the vehicle issued
by the office of the Secretary of State.
(Prior Code, § 12-1)  (Ord. passed 6-4-1990; Ord. 07-02, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 90.02  NOTICE.
   Upon receipt of a report of violation of §
90.01, the President shall direct the Clerk to cause to be served a notice, in
writing, either by personal service or by certified mail, return receipt
requested, upon the owner and occupant of any lot, building, premises, or item
of personality in or upon which any nuisance exists, requiring them to abate
the same, within ten days, in such manner as the notice shall direct.
(Prior Code, § 12-2)  (Ord. 07-02, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 90.03  NON-SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   If the person so served and notified does not abate the nuisance within the
specified time, the Village Board, by resolution, may proceed to abate the
nuisance in any or all manner allowable by law, including, without limiting the
generality thereof, the following:
   (A)   Seeking to impose a monetary penalty as defined by §
90.99 of this chapter by instituting an chapter enforcement action; and
   (B)   Seeking to enjoin the continuation of the nuisance by the filing of a
lawsuit in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 12-3)  (Ord. 07-02, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 90.04  SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   If the persons so served and notified do not abate the nuisance within the
specified time, the Village Board, after reviewing the complaint and the facts
surrounding it, may by resolution authorize an officer, employee, or agent of
the village to abate such nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 12-4)  (Ord. 07-02, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 90.05  LIEN.
   (A)   Charges for the abatement of any nuisance shall be a lien upon the
premises. Whenever a bill for such charges remains unpaid for 60 days after it
has been rendered, the Village Clerk may file with the Recorder of Deeds of the
county a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain a legal
description of the premises, the expenses and costs incurred, and the date the
nuisance was abated, and a notice that the village claims a lien for this
amount.
   (B)   Notice of such lien claim shall be mailed to the owners of the
premises if his or her addresses are known, provided, however, failure of the
Village Clerk to record such lien claim, or to mail such notices, or the
failure of the owners to receive such notices, shall not affect the right to
foreclose the lien for such charges as provided in §
90.06.
(Prior Code, § 12-6)  (Ord. 07-02, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 90.06  FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   (A)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid nuisance abatement charges shall
be sold for non-payment of the same, and the proceeds of such sale shall be
applied to pay the charges after deducting the costs of sale, as in the case in
the foreclosure of statutory liens.
   (B)   Such foreclosure shall be in equity in the name of the village.
   (C)   The Village Attorney is authorized and directed to institute such
proceedings, in the name of the village, in any court having jurisdiction over
such matter, against any property for which such bill has remained unpaid 60
days after it has been rendered.
(Prior Code, § 12-7)  (Ord. 07-02, passed 3-5-2007)
SPECIFIC NUISANCES
§ 90.20  EXCAVATIONS.
   Whoever shall for any purpose dig or make any ditch, drain, excavation, or
hold, in, across, or under any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place
within said village, and shall not, with all reasonable dispatch, refill the
same and fix such street, alley, sidewalk, or place in as good condition as the
same was found; or whoever shall, during the existence or continuance of any
such ditch, drain, excavation, or hold, fail to have the same so watched,
guarded, or protected as to insure the safety of all persons who may pass by or
near the same shall be deemed guilty of maintaining a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 13-1)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21  UNSAFE SCAFFOLDS.
   Whoever shall erect or use, or shall cause or suffer to be erected within
said village, any nuisance or unsafe scaffold, whereby the safety of persons
thereon or passing thereunder may be in any manner endangered, shall be deemed
guilty of creating a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 13-2)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22  UNSAFE SIGNS.
   Whoever shall erect, keep, or maintain, or suspend any sign, awning, goods,
clothing, or other structure or thing over or across any street, or render
travel thereon inconvenient or unsafe; or whoever shall overhand the same in
such manner as to obstruct such sidewalk or street, or render travel thereon
inconvenient or unsafe; or whoever shall suffer any awning, sign, or structure
over any street or sidewalk to be out of repair, or in an insecure or unsafe
condition, shall be deemed guilty of maintaining a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 13-3)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23  UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   Any person who shall, within said village, erect or maintain any insecure or
unsafe building, stack, wall, chimney, or other structure, which from its
situation, mode of construction, or other cause may be dangerous to persons or
property shall be deemed guilty of maintaining a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 13-4)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24  CELLAR AND TRAP DOORS.
   Whoever shall keep or leave open any cellar, or trap door, or the grating of
any vault, in or upon any sidewalk, street, thoroughfare, or passageway, within
said village; or whoever shall make, keep, or maintain any uncovered opening in
any sidewalk or footway, which it is his or her duty to maintain or repair, to
become or continually so broken, uneven, or out of repair as to endanger life
or limb, shall be deemed guilty of maintaining a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 13-5)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25  BILLBOARDS.
   Whoever shall rent, keep, or maintain any billboard, or board for
advertising, upon any public ground or place, or upon any private premises,
sidewalk, street, or footway, the same being so erected as to occasion danger,
or inconvenience to the public, shall be deemed guilty of creating a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 13-6)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26  BARBED WIRE FENCES.
   All fences within said village, situated along or upon the border of any
street, alley, or public grounds, or which shall be or are located upon any
plotted grounds or tract of land forming any addition to said village, and
which said fence or fences run parallel with any street or streets, or alley in
said village, constructed in whole or in part of what is known as barb, or
barbed wire, or any material of like nature, and which (barbed wire fences)
shall not be securely separated from such street or alley by a good and
sufficient fence of any sort not prohibited by this section; and all hedge
fences of whatsoever kind in said village exceeding four feet in height, or the
boughs, limbs, or sprouts of which extend outward beyond the inner edge of any
public sidewalk or pavement in said village, be and the same are hereby
declared to be nuisances.
(Prior Code, § 13-7)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27  LOITERING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LOITERING. Remaining idle in essentially one location and shall include
the concept of spending time idly; to be dilatory; to linger; to stay; to
saunter; to delay; to stand around; and shall also include the colloquial
expression “hanging around”.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the general public has access and a
right of resort for business, entertainment, or other lawful purpose, but does
not necessarily mean a place devoted solely to the uses of the public. It shall
also include the front, or immediate area, of any store, shop, restaurant,
tavern or other place of business, and also public grounds, areas, or parks.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter, loaf, wander, stand, or
remain idle either alone or in consort with others, in a public place in such
manner so as to:
      (1)   Obstruct any public street, public highway, public sidewalk, or any
other public place or building, by hindering or impeding, or tending to hinder
or impede, the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic, or
pedestrians;
      (2)   Commit in or upon any public street, public highway, public
sidewalk, or any other public place, or building, any act or thing which is an
obstruction or interference to the free and uninterrupted use of property, or
with any business lawfully conducted by anyone in or upon, or facing or
fronting, any such public street, public highway, public sidewalk, or any other
public place or building, all of which prevents the free and uninterrupted
ingress, egress, and regress, therein, thereon, and thereto; and
      (3)   Obstruct the entrance to any business establishment, without so
doing for some lawful purpose, if contrary to the expressed wish of the owner,
lessee, managing agent, or person in control or charge of the building or
premises.
(Prior Code, § 13-8)  (Ord. 2005-06, passed 9-6-2005)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any individual, firm, association, or corporation violating any of the
provisions of §§
90.01 through
90.06 shall upon conviction be guilty of a petty offense. Each day that a
violation is allowed to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 12-5)
   (C)   Whenever any person causes or commits any of the actions in §
90.27, he or she commits a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 13-8)  (Ord. 2005-06, passed 9-6-2005; Ord. 07-02, passed 3-5-
2007)
CHAPTER 91:  ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Chickens
Domestic Animals
   
91.15   Definitions
   
91.16   At large
   
91.17   Identification
   
91.18   Rabies inoculation
   
91.19   Noises
   
91.20   Impounding
   
91.21   Notification
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01  CHICKENS.
   (A)   Chickens shall not be considered domestic animals, but shall be
permitted within the village as set forth below.
(Prior Code, § 17-1)
   (B)   It shall be permissible for an owner or keeper to have no more six
female chickens on his or her property so long as said chickens are confined
within a pen or other suitable enclosure.
(Prior Code, § 17-5A)  (Ord. 13-03, passed 12-9-2013)
DOMESTIC ANIMALS
§ 91.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or keeper, or his or her agent, or servant, either by leash, cord, chain,
or otherwise.
   CAT. All members of the feline family, male or female.
   DOG. All members of the canine family, male or female, and also pet foxes
and wolves.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. All animals such as are habituated to live in or about the
premises of their owner or keeper, except for dogs and cats.
   OWNER or KEEPER. Any person owning, keeping, or harboring a dog, or who
knowingly permits a dog to remain on or about any premises occupied by him or
her.
(Prior Code, § 17-1)  (Ord. 13-03, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 91.16  AT LARGE.
   No owner or keeper shall permit any dog or domestic animal to run at large.
(Prior Code, § 17-5)  (Ord. 13-03, passed 12-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17  IDENTIFICATION.
   No owner or keeper shall permit any dog, cat, or other domestic animal to
remain within the village, unless such animal shall have a collar or other
device which identifies the name, address, and telephone number of the owner or
keeper.
(Prior Code, § 17-2)  (Ord. 13-03, passed 12-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18  RABIES INOCULATION.
   No owner or keeper shall permit any dog or domestic animal to remain within
the village unless such animal shall have evidence attached to its collar, or
other device, that it has been inoculated for rabies as required by law or
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 17-3)  (Ord. 13-03, passed 12-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19  NOISES.
   No owner or keeper shall permit any dog, cat, or domestic animal within the
village to disturb the peace and quiet of any neighborhood or person by
frequent and long continued animal sounds such as barking, howling, meowing, or
whining.
(Prior Code, § 17-4)  (Ord. 13-03, passed 12-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.20  IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Warden, any Assistant
Animal Control Warden, and of all police officers of the village to take and
impound all dogs, cats, or domestic animals that are in violation of this
ordinance. In effecting the capture of such animals, the Animal Control Warden
and any Assistant Animal Control Warden is authorized and directed to use
traps, nets, or tranquilizer guns.
(Prior Code, § 17-6)
   (B)   The owner or keeper of any dog, cat, or other domestic animal
impounded, as provided in this chapter, may obtain the release of such animal
by paying the actual cost of impoundment, plus a fee of $10 for the first
impoundment of a particular animal, and $20 for the second and each subsequent
impoundment of said animal to the village. After such animal has been impounded
for a period of seven days, the Animal Control Warden or the Assistant Animal
Control Warden is authorized and directed to transfer the animal to the Humane
Society, Champaign, Illinois, or other similar organization, for disposition.
(Prior Code, § 17-8)  (Ord. 13-03, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 91.21  NOTIFICATION.
   The Animal Control Warden and any Assistant Animal Control Warden shall
notify the owner or keeper of any impounded animal, in writing, of the
impoundment. If the owner or keeper of such animal is not known, the Animal
Control Warden and the Assistant Animal Control Warden shall make reasonable
effort to locate and notify such owner or keeper.
(Prior Code, § 17-7)  (Ord. 13-03, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 91.99  PENALTY
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions in §§
91.15 through
91.21, shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 17-9)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994; Ord. 13-03, passed 12-9-2013)
CHAPTER 92:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Statement of policy
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Unlawful practices
   
92.04   Applicability
   
92.05   Administration
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01  STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   The village hereby declares it to be the public policy of the village to
eliminate and prevent discrimination, segregation, or separation in all places
of public accommodation covered by this chapter, and to eliminate and prevent
discrimination, segregation, or separation in housing, and to safeguard the
right of any person to sell, purchase, lease, rent, or obtain real property
without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability, or
familial status. It is further affirmed that the opportunity for full and equal
public accommodations, as covered by this chapter, and the opportunity for full
and equal housing, are civil rights of every citizen.
(Ord. 04-02, passed 5-3-2004)
§ 92.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Any bank, building, and loan association, insurance
company, or other person, firm, or enterprise, whose business consists in
whole, or in part, in the lending of money, or making or guaranteeing of loans,
on housing accommodations or real property.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATIONS. Any building, or portion thereof, whether such
building or portion is constructed or is to be constructed, which is used or
intended for use as the residence is occupied, or designed, or intended for
occupancy.
   PERSON. One or more individuals, partnerships, associations, organizations,
corporations, legal representatives, trustees, trustees in bankruptcy,
receivers, fiduciaries, mutual companies, joint-stock companies, trusts, and
unincorporated organizations.
   OWNER. The person, lessee, sublessee, assignee, manager, agent, or other
person, firm, or corporation, having the right to sell, rent, or lease any
housing accommodation or real property within the corporate limits of the
village.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER. Any person who, for a fee or other valuable
consideration, sells,  purchases, exchanges, rents, negotiates, offers, or
attempts to negotiate the sale, purchase, exchange, or rental of housing
accommodations or real property of another person.
   REAL ESTATE SALESPERSON or AGENT. Any person employed by a real estate
broker to perform, or to assist in the performance of, any or all functions of
a real estate broker.
   TO RENT. To lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant, for a
consideration, the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
   UNLAWFUL DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICES. Any discrimination, or
segregation, or separation in housing against any person or group of persons
because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability, or familial
status, and shall include only those unlawful practices and acts as set forth
in this chapter.
(Ord. 04-02, passed 5-3-2004)
§ 92.03  UNLAWFUL PRACTICES.
   It is unlawful:
   (A)   For the owner, real estate broker, real estate salesperson, or
employee, or agent thereof, or any person having the right, responsibility, or
authority to sell, rent, lease, assign, or sublease any dwelling unit,
commercial unit, or real property, or any part or portion thereof or interest
therein:
      (1)   When in fact it is so available, to refuse to offer for sale,
rental, lease, assignment, or sublease, or to refuse to sell, rent, lease,
assign, or sublease after the making of a bona fide offer, to fail to transmit
a bona fide offer, or refuse to negotiate in good faith for the sale or rental
of, or otherwise make unavailable, withhold, or deny, real property, or any
part or portion thereof, to or from any person because of race, color,
religion, sex, national origin, disability, or familial status;
      (2)   To discriminate against a person because of race, color, religion,
sex, national origin, disability, or familial status, in the terms, conditions,
or privileges of the sale, rental, lease, assignment, or sublease of any
housing accommodations, or real property, or part or portion thereof, or in the
furnishing of facilities or services in connection therewith, or to require
higher sale price or rental, or otherwise impose terms more burdensome upon any
person because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability, or
familial status, which would not be required of other persons;
      (3)   To print, publish, circulate, issue, display, post, or mail, or
cause to be printed, circulated, issued, displayed, posted, or mailed, any
statement, advertisement, publication, or sign, or to use any form of
application for the purchase, rental, lease, assignment, or sublease of any
housing accommodations or real property, or part or portion thereof, or to make
any record or inquiry in connection with the prospective purchase, rental,
lease, assignment, or sublease, of any housing accommodations or real property,
or part or portion thereof, which expresses, directly or indirectly, any
preference, limitation, specification, or discrimination as to race, color,
religion, sex, national origin, disability, or familial status, or any intent
to make any such limitation, specification, or discrimination;
      (4)   To directly or indirectly solicit the sale, lease, or the listing
for sale or lease, of housing accommodations or real property, on the ground of
imminent or prospective entry into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a
particular race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability, or familial
status, or use such fact or suspicion as a sales or listing inducement or
stimulant, or to discriminate, or cause to be distributed material, or make
statements designed to induce a property owner to sell or lease property due to
such a fact, suspicion, or imminent change in the neighborhood, or to induce or
attempt to induce such sale by representing that the presence, or anticipated
presence, of persons of any particular race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, disability, or familial status in the area will or may result in:
         (a)   The lowering of property values;
         (b)   A change in the racial, religious, or ethnic composition of the
block, neighborhood, or area in which the property is located;
         (c)   An increase in criminal or antisocial behavior in the area; and/
or
         (d)   A decline in the duality of the schools serving the area.
      (5)   To deny any person access to, or membership in, or participation
in, any multiple listing service, real estate brokers’ organization, or other
service, organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting housing, or to discriminate against any person in the terms or
conditions of such access, membership, or participation because of race, color,
religion, sex, national origin, disability, or familial status; and
      (6)   To include in any sale, rental, lease, assignment, or sublease of
any dwelling unit or real property, or any part or portion thereof, or interest
therein, as a condition of the transaction that the purchaser, renter, tenant,
occupant, or assignee agree not to sell, rent, lease, assign, or sublease the
dwelling unit, commercial unit, or real property, or part of portion thereof,
or interest therein, to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, disability, or familial status of such person.
   (B)   For any person to engage in lending money, guaranteeing loans,
accepting mortgages, or otherwise making available, funds for the purchase,
acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair, or maintenance of any
dwelling unit, commercial unit, or real property, or any part or portion
thereof or interest therein:
      (1)   To discriminate because of race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, disability, or familial status of any person applying for loans, or
guarantees, or mortgages, in lending money, guaranteeing loans, accepting
mortgages, or otherwise making available funds for the purchase, acquisition,
construction, rehabilitation, repair, or maintenance of any dwelling unit,
commercial unit, or real property, or any part or portion thereof or interest
therein, or in the fixing of the rates, terms, conditions, or provisions of any
such financial assistance, or in the extension of services in connection
therewith;
      (2)   To use any form of application for such financial assistance, or to
make any record or inquiry in connection with applications for such financial
assistance, which expresses, directly or indirectly, any limitation,
specification, or discrimination as to the race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, disability, or familial status, or any intent to make any such
limitation, specification, or discrimination; and/or
      (3)   To make any representations to any prospective seller, real estate
broker, salesperson, agent, owner, or to any financial institution, for the
purpose of obtaining facts or evidence of a discriminatory practice when such
representations are not made for a bona fide purchase, rental, or lease of real
property, provided, however, this section shall not apply to any person
employed by the village or the state, whose duty is to assist in the
prosecution of violations of civil rights relating to open housing.
   (C)   For any person to engage in any form of threats or reprisal, or to
engage in, or hire, or conspire with others, to commit acts or activities of
any nature, the purpose of which is to harass, degrade, embarrass, or to cause
physical harm or economic loss to any person because such person complies with
the provisions of this chapter, or has opposed any practice forbidden under
this chapter, or has filed a complaint, testified, or assisted in any
proceeding under this chapter;
   (D)   For any person to aid, abet, incite, compel, coerce, cooperate, or
participate in the doing of any act declared to be a discriminatory practice
under the provisions of this chapter, or to obstruct or prevent compliance with
the provisions of this chapter, or to attempt to directly or indirectly to
commit any act declared by this chapter to be a discriminatory practice; and/or
   (E)   To discriminate against any person in the use or occupancy of real
property because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability, or
familial status of the people with whom such person associates.
(Ord. 04-02, passed 5-3-2004)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04  APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   The sale, rental, assignment, lease, or sublease of a single-family
dwelling owned by an individual in which that individual or a member of the
immediate family resides, and the dwelling is offered for sale, rental,
assignment, lease, or sublease, without the use of a real estate broker, or
real estate salesperson, or agent;
      (2)   A rental or leasing of a dwelling unit in a building, which
contains housing accommodations for not more than two families living
independently of each other, if the owner, or a member of the immediate family,
resides in such a dwelling unit; and
      (3)   A rental or leasing to less than five persons living in a dwelling
unit by the owner, if the owner, or a member of the immediate family, resides
therein.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of real
property which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons. Nor
shall anything in this chapter prohibit a non-profit private club in fact not
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings, which it owns or operates, for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members,
or from giving preference to its members.
(Ord. 04-02, passed 5-3-2004)
§ 92.05  ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Any person claiming to have been subjected to any discriminatory
practice, as defined by this chapter, may file a complaint by appearing before
the Village Attorney and furnishing such information as the Village Attorney
may require. Any complaint filed pursuant to this section must be filed with
the Village Attorney within 90 days of the alleged incident.
   (B)   Every complaint of a violation of this chapter shall be referred to
the Village Attorney. The Village Attorney shall forthwith notify the person
against whom the complaint is made. The identify of the aggrieved person shall
be made known to the person against whom the complaint is made at that time. If
the Village Attorney, after investigation, finds there is no merit to the
complaint, the same shall be dismissed. If the Village Attorney finds there is
merit to the complaint, the Village Attorney will endeavor to eliminate the
alleged discriminatory practice by conference and conciliation.
   (C)   If the Village Attorney is unable to eliminate the alleged
discrimination practice by a conference and conciliation, then and in that
event the Village Board shall make the final determination of whether or not to
prosecute on said complaint. Failure to prosecute said complaint shall not
constitute an act of discrimination as defined in this chapter.
(Ord. 04-02, passed 5-3-2004)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person convicted of a violation of §§
92.01 through
92.05 shall be guilty of a petty offense.
   (B)   The Village Attorney, instead of filing a chapter violation complaint
may, as an alternative remedy, seek to have the alleged discriminatory
practices abated by an action for an injunction to be maintained in the
appropriate court of the state.
(Ord. 04-02, passed 5-3-2004)
CHAPTER 93:  FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Open burning
Fire Limits and Conditions
   
93.15   Fire limits defined
   
93.16   Character of building within limits
   
93.17   Wooden buildings
   
93.18   Determining damages
   
93.19   Combustible roof
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01  OPEN BURNING.
   (A) For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LANDSCAPE WASTE. Dry leaves; trimmings from trees and shrubs; tree limbs,
and branches, vines and the like. LANDSCAPE WASTE does not include grass
clippings, green trimmings or branches, or wet leaves.
      SMOLDER. To burn sluggishly, without open flame, producing smoke.
   (B)   Open burning is prohibited, except as herein provided in this section.
   (C)   The open burning of garbage is strictly prohibited.
   (D)   The open burning of landscape wastes are permitted.
   (E)   Recreation fires, being fires used to entertain or cook, are permitted
subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   Recreation fires may burn sticks, limbs, logs, charcoal, cooking or
camping fuel only.
      (2)   No recreation fire shall be burned between midnight and 6:00 a.m.
      (3)   No recreation fire shall be burned during periods of high wind or
extreme drought.
      (4)   Recreational fires may not exceed an area dimension of six feet by
six feet.
      (5)   Garbage, trash, refuse, lumber, building materials, or tires shall
not be burned in a recreational fire.
      (6)   Recreational fires shall be extinguished immediately upon direction
of fire personnel.
   (F)   Any open burning permitted under this section shall be attended by a
responsible adult.
   (G)   No open burning permitted under this section shall be allowed to
smolder.
   (H)   No open burning permitted under this section may be conducted on any
village street, roadway, alley, or manhole cover.
   (I)   Any open burning, permitted under this section, shall be halted and
extinguished immediately upon direction of the Village Superintendent, Fire
Chief, or his or her agents, if they determine that the open burning is being
conducted in an illegal or unsafe manner, or unsafe place, or constitutes a
danger to surrounding property or nearby structures, or which is creating
unreasonable quantities of smoke. Any person who fails or refuses to comply
with such an order to halt or extinguish the open burning shall be guilty of an
offense.
(Prior Code, § 13-9)  (Ord. 10-03, passed 6-1-2010)  Penalty, see §
93.99
FIRE LIMITS AND CONDITIONS
§ 93.15  FIRE LIMITS DEFINED.
   All that is part of the village, embraced with the following described
territory, is hereby fixed and established as a fire limits of said village of
the Original Town of De Land, to-wit:
   (A)   Lots No. 1, 2, and 3 in Block No. 17;
   (B)   Lots No. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8 in Block No. 15;
   (C)   Lots No. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 in Block No. 10;
   (D)   Lots No. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 in Block No. 7;
   (E)   Lots No. 5, 6, and 7 in Block No. 18;
   (F)   Lots No. 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, and 14 in Block No. 14;
   (G)   Lots No. 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, and 14 in Block No. 11; and
   (H)   Lots No. 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, and 14 in Block No. 6, of the Original
Town of De Land.
(Prior Code, § 16-1)
§ 93.16  CHARACTER OF BUILDING WITHIN LIMITS.
   No building, or structure of any kind, or description, shall be erected
within the fire limits, as defined in §
93.15 of this subchapter, unless the outside, or party walls, thereof shall be
composed entirely of brick, stone, or iron, or other incombustible material;
and all buildings which shall, or may hereafter, be erected or constructed
within said fire limits, shall have outside walls of not less than 13 inches in
thickness, and if any building shall be more than two stories in height (above
the basement), outside walls of the stories above the second shall not be less
than nine inches in thickness, provided that any building, cottage, or barn,
one story in height, may be built with walls not less than nine inches in
thick, and, provided further, that buildings built of wood, and used
exclusively for private dwelling houses, may be repaired, and the roofs thereof
recovered with shingles, or boards, but they shall not be raised, or enlarged.
All chimneys shall be carried at least three feet above the roof. Felt, tar, or
composition roofing may be allowed in the construction and erection of
buildings within the fire limits, provided such felt shall be covered with
distilled roofing cement, or other equally non-inflammable materials, and well
covered with gravel, or other non-combustible material.
(Prior Code, § 16-3)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.17  WOODEN BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No wooden building, or part of building, within the fire limits
prescribed in §
93.15 of this subchapter, shall be raised, enlarged, or repaired, except as
provided in this subchapter; that the owners, or occupants, of buildings within
the fire limits shall have the right to raise wooden buildings to the
established grade; also to building basements, or cellars, of brick, or stone,
under the buildings so raised to grade; also to raise a cottage, or dwelling,
which does not exceed one story in height, sufficiently high to place
thereunder a brick, or stone, wall basement, not exceeding 12 feet in height
above the established grade, provided that no wooden buildings that may
hereafter be damaged to the extent of 50% of its value, be so repaired as to be
raised higher than the highest point left standing, after such damage shall
have occurred, or so as to occupy greater space then before the injury thereto.
(Prior Code, § 16-4)
   (B)   Any wooden building which may be erected, enlarged, removed, or
repaired, or in process of enlargement, removal, or repair, contrary to the
provisions of this subchapter, shall be deemed a nuisance and, upon
information, it shall be the duty of the President, after 24 hours’ notice to
the owner, occupant, persons in charge, or building, to abate the same, to raze
such building to the ground,  the expenses thereof shall be by the President,
reported to the Board of Trustees, for assessment, or such expenses may be
collected of, or from, the owner, or owners, of such building by suit in any
court of competent jurisdiction in the county.
(Prior Code, § 16-7)
§ 93.18  DETERMINING DAMAGES.
   The amount, or extent of damage, that may be done to any building, may be
determined by three disinterested persons, residents of said village, one of
whom shall be selected by the owner of the building, one by the President, or
any two members of the Committee on Fire Department and Waterworks, and the two
so chosen shall select a third, and the decision of the persons so appointed
shall be final and conclusive.
(Prior Code, § 16-5)
§ 93.19  COMBUSTIBLE ROOF.
   No building, which shall hereafter be erected within said fire limits, as
described in §
93.15 of this subchapter, shall be covered with shingles wooden, or other
inflammable or combustible materials.
(Prior Code, § 16-8)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   No building shall hereafter be erected within the fire limits, unless
a permit therefore is first obtained from the President and Board of Trustees
of the village. The owner, or person desiring to erect or construct any
building or structure, within the fire limits, as prescribed in §
93.15 of this chapter shall, when he or she applies to the President and Board
of Trustees, submit the plans and specifications of such proposed building or
structure, and shall file a copy thereof with the Village Clerk, and any
departure from such plans and specifications in the construction of the outside
or party walls, or roof, increasing the liability of such building to take fire
or burn, shall forfeit such permit, and the supervising architect, or
contractor, or other person making, ordering, or constructing to such
departure, shall be guilty of a petty offense, for which the minimum fine shall
be $50 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 16-2)
   (C)   Any person who violates this chapter shall be subject to a petty
offense as defined in the village ordinances, for which the minimum fine shall
be $50.
(Prior Code, § 13-9)
   (D)   Any owner, building, or other person who shall own, build, or aid in
erection of any building, or part of building, within said fire limits,
contrary to, or in any other manner than authorized by the provisions of this
chapter, or who shall remove, or assist in removing, any wooden building within
said fire limits from one lot to another therein, or who shall remove, or
assist in removing, any such building from without said fire limits into the
same, or repair, or assist in repairing, any damaged building, contrary to the
provisions of this chapter, in either case above specified, shall be guilty of
a petty offense, and shall be guilty of a separate petty offense for every 48
hours such person or persons shall fail to comply with the provisions of this
chapter, or continue in the violation thereof.
(Prior Code, § 16-6)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994; Ord. 10-03, passed 6-1-2010)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   LICENSING
      
111.   AMUSEMENT AND LEISURE
      
112.   LIQUOR LICENSING AND REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 110:  LICENSING
Section
   
110.01   Licenses granted
   
110.02   Contents of license
   
110.03   Record of license
   
110.04   Period of license
   
110.05   Revocation
§ 110.01  LICENSES GRANTED.
   Licenses shall only be granted under the ordinances of the village, in the
manner and upon the conditions following, and not otherwise. The person making
application shall make written application therefor to the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 14-1)
§ 110.02  CONTENTS OF LICENSE.
   Every license shall contain the name, in full, of the person to whom the
same is granted, and be signed by the Clerk, and attested by the corporate seal
of the village.
(Prior Code, § 14-2)
§ 110.03  RECORD OF LICENSE.
   It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to record, in a suitable book, all
licenses issued under the ordinances of the village, entering the name of the
person licensed, the date of the license, for what purpose granted, date of
expiration, and the amount paid.
(Prior Code, § 14-3)
§ 110.04  PERIOD OF LICENSE.
   Unless otherwise specially provided by ordinance, no license shall be
granted for a longer period than one year, nor be assignable or transferable
with the permission of the President and Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 14-4)
§ 110.05  REVOCATION.
   Any license, unless otherwise specifically provided, may be revoked by the
President and Board of Trustees at any time during the life of such license for
any violation by the licensee of the chapter provisions relating to the
license.
(Prior Code, § 14-5)
CHAPTER 111:  AMUSEMENT AND LEISURE
Section
Billiards, Pinball, and Pool
   
111.01   License required
   
111.02   Fees
   
111.03   Application
   
111.04   Revocation
 
   
111.99   Penalty
BILLIARDS, PINBALL, AND POOL
§ 111.01  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall operate, maintain, or conduct a
billiard or pool table opened to the public without having first obtained a
license therefor. No person, firm, or corporation shall operate any
mechanically coin-operated music device, or a coin-operated pinball machine, or
amusement device which is hereby defined to be any automatic or coin control,
or coin-operated music box, juke box, radio, or similar device, or any
combination thereof from which music or other entertainment may be obtained by
the deposit or payment of money or other token, or any other such coin-operated
device used for amusement, without first having obtained a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 14-6)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02  FEES.
   Each owner/operator who shall own and operate in the village one or more
such coin-operated devices, as enumerated above in §
111.01, shall pay a village license fee of $10, payable annually in advance,
and an additional fee of $15 per year for each machine, amusement device,
billiard, or pool table which he or she operates in the village, which shall be
paid to the Village Clerk in advance. The Village Police Department is
empowered and directed to place an official sticker on each machine, device,
billiard, or pool table showing that it has been properly licensed, and the
Village Police Department is empowered and required to enforce this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 14-7)
§ 111.03  APPLICATION.
   An applicant desiring to secure such license shall file with the Village
Clerk his or her application in writing, signed by him or her, stating the name
and address of the owner-operator, the number of coin-operated devices which he
or she has in operation in the village, and/or the number of billiard and pool
tables which he or she has in operation in the village, the address of which
each such device, billiard, or pool table is located, and the type of business
in which it is operated. Amendments to this application shall be filed whenever
new locations or new machines, billiard, or pool tables are added. Upon payment
of fees, the Village Clerk shall then issue said license. The license shall be
non-assignable and non-transferable.
(Prior Code, § 14-8)
§ 111.04  REVOCATION.
   Any license issued in this subchapter may be revoked by the President or the
Village Board whenever, in the judgment of either, the public welfare requires
such revocation.
(Prior Code, § 14-9)
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating §§
111.01 through
111.04, or any of the provisions thereof, shall be guilty of a petty offense
for which the minimum fine shall be $35, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during, or on which, a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 14-10)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)
CHAPTER 112:  LIQUOR LICENSING AND REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Local Commissioner
   
112.03   License required
   
112.04   Application for license
   
112.05   Restrictions on licensees
   
112.06   Record of licenses
   
112.07   Insurance requirements
   
112.08   Term of license; renewals; dishonored payment
   
112.09   Transfer of license
   
112.10   Classification and fees
   
112.11   Initial license applications; fees
   
112.12   Number of licenses issued
   
112.13   Incomplete applications
   
112.14   Disposition of fees
   
112.15   Conditions of license
Location, Building, and Premises Restrictions
   
112.30   Location restrictions
   
112.31   Sanitary conditions
   
112.32   View from street
   
112.33   Premises restrictions
   
112.34   Personnel restrictions
   
112.35   Prohibited acts and conditions
   
112.36   Sales to minors, drunkards, and the like
   
112.37   Purchase or acceptance of gift by minors; identification cards
Violations
   
112.50   Violation of tax acts
   
112.51   Suspension and revocation; complaints and hearings
   
112.52   Forfeiture of fees
   
112.53   Use of premises after revocation
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01  DEFINITIONS.
   All words and phrases used in this chapter and not otherwise defined herein,
which are defined in the Liquor Control Act of 1934, 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., as
amended, shall have the meaning accorded to the words and phrases in that Act.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms as used in this
chapter shall be construed according to the definitions set forth below:
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.01)
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, spirits, wine, and beer, and every
liquid or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer,
and capable of being consumed as a beverage by a human being. The provisions of
this chapter shall not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured
alcohol produced in accordance with Acts of Congress and regulations
promulgated thereunder, nor to any liquid or solid containing .5% or less of
alcohol by volume.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.05)
   BEER. A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt, and hops in water, and includes
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter, and the like.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.04)
   CLUB. A corporation organized under the laws of this state, not for
pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the
sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used, and maintained by its
members through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring, or leasing a
building or space in a building of an extent and character as may be suitable
and adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of servants
and employees for cooking, preparing, and serving food and meals for its
members and their guests; provided that the club files with the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner at the time of its application for a license under this
chapter two copies of a list of names and residences of its members, and
similarly files within ten days of the election of any additional member his or
her name and address; and, provided further, that its affairs and management
are conducted by a board of directors, executive committee, or similar body
chosen by the members at their annual meeting and that no member or any
officer, agent, or employee of the club is paid, or directly or indirectly
receives in the form of salary or other compensation, any profits from the
distribution or sale of alcoholic liquor to the club or the members of the club
or its guests introduced by members beyond the amount of such salary as may be
fixed and voted at any annual meeting by the members or by its board of
directors or other governing body out of the general revenue of the club.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.24)
   HOTEL. Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised,
and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and
consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers
and guests, whether transient, permanent, or residential, in which 25 or more
rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of the guests and having one or
more public dining rooms where meals are served to the guests, the sleeping
accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same building or
buildings in connection therewith and the building or buildings, structure or
structures, being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room
equipment and capacity.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.25)
   LIQUOR CONTROL ACT. The state Liquor Control Act of 1934, 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et
seq., as now or hereafter amended.
   LOCAL COMMISSIONER. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner as defined by the
Liquor Control Act.
   RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised, and held
out to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals are
actually and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, the space being
provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook, and serve suitable food for its guests.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.23)
   RETAILER. A person who sells or offers for sale alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.17)
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange, or barter in any manner or by any means
whatsoever, including the transfer of alcoholic liquors by and through the
transfer or negotiation of warehouse receipts or certificates, and includes and
means all sales made by any person, whether principal, proprietor, agent,
servant, or employee. The term SALE includes any transfer of alcoholic liquor
from a foreign importer’s license to an importing distributor’s license even if
both licenses are held by the same person.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.21)
   SELL AT RETAIL and SALE AT RETAIL. Refers to and means sales for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.18)
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin, or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended, or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.02)
   STATE COMMISSION. The Illinois Liquor Control Commission.
   TO SELL. Includes to keep or expose for sale and to keep with intent to
sell.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.22)
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits, as above defined.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.03)
§ 112.02  LOCAL COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   Designation. The Village President is hereby designated as the Local
Commissioner and shall be charged with the administration of the Liquor Control
Act and of ordinances and resolutions relating to alcoholic liquor as may be
enacted. The President may appoint a person or persons to assist in the
exercise of the powers and the performance of the duties provided for in
division (B).
   (B)   Powers, duties, and functions. The Local Commissioner shall have all
the powers, functions, and duties with respect to local liquor licenses granted
by the Liquor Control Act, including:
      (1)   To grant and/or suspend for not more than 30 days or revoke for
cause all local licenses issued to persons or entities for premises within the
Commissioner’s jurisdiction, and to impose fines as set forth herein;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter, at
any time, upon the premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the
provisions of the Liquor Control Act or this chapter, or any rules or
regulations adopted by the Local Commissioner or by the state commission, have
been or are being violated, and at such time to examine the premises of the
licensee in connection therewith;
      (3)   To receive complaints from any citizen with the Local
Commissioner’s jurisdiction that any of the provisions of the Liquor Control
Act or of this chapter have been or are being violated, and to act upon these
complaints in the manner provided by law;
      (4)   To receive local license fees and pay same to the Village Clerk;
      (5)   To examine, or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for
a local license or for a renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of
revocation or suspension has been served, or any licensee against whom a
citation proceeding has been instituted by the state Liquor Control Commission;
to examine, or cause to be examined, the books and records of any applicant or
licensee or respondent; and to hear testimony and take proof for information in
the performance of the Local Commissioner’s duties; and for these purposes, to
issue subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of this state. For the
purpose of obtaining any of the information desired by the Local Commissioner
under this section, the Commissioner may authorize his or her agent to act on
his or her behalf;
      (6)   To order, upon the issuance of a written order, the licensed
premises closed for not more than seven days, giving the licensee an
opportunity to be heard during that period, if the Local Commissioner has
reason to believe that any continued operation of a particular licensed
premises will immediately threaten the welfare of the community; except that if
the licensee shall also be engaged in the conduct of another business or
businesses on the licensed premises, the order shall not be applicable to the
other business or businesses; and
      (7)   If the village permits club licenses, to notify the Secretary of
State where a club incorporated under the General Not for Profit Corporation
Act or a foreign corporation functioning as a club in this state under a
certificate of authority issued under that Act has violated the Liquor Control
Act by selling or offering for sale at retail alcoholic liquors without a
retailer's license.
Statutory reference:
   Powers and duties of local commissioners, see 235 ILCS 5/4-2, 4-4, and 4-5
§ 112.03  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail in the village any
alcoholic liquor without having a retail liquor dealer’s license, or in
violation of the terms of the license.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Applications for these licenses shall be made to the Local
Commissioner, or the Village Clerk operating in the Commissioner’s behalf, in
writing, signed by the applicant if an individual, or by a duly authorized
agent thereof if a club or corporation, verified by oath or affidavit, and
shall contain the following statements and information:
      (1)   The full name, age, and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a copartnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation, the objects for which
organized, the names, addresses, date of birth, and place of birth of the
officers, directors, all persons owning directly or beneficially more than 5%
of the stock of the corporation, and the persons acting as managers or
assistant managers of the premises;
      (2)   The citizenship of the applicant, the applicant’s date and place of
birth, and, if a naturalized citizen, the time and place of naturalization;
      (3)   The character of business of the applicant;
      (4)   The length of time the applicant has been in business of that
character or, in the case of a corporation, the date when its charter was
issued;
      (5)   The amounts of goods, wares, and merchandise on hand at the time
application is made;
      (6)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under the license.
         (a)   If a leased premises, a copy of the lease shall be provided as
required and shall be for a term of sufficient length to encompass the period
of the license sought.
         (b)   The name and address of the owner or owners of the premises and
the names and addresses of all the owners of the beneficial interest of any
trust if the premises is held in trust.
      (7)   A statement whether the applicant has made application for a
similar or other license on premises other than described in this application,
and the disposition of the application;
      (8)   A statement that the applicant has never been convicted of a felony
and is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter, laws for this state, or the ordinances of this
village;
      (9)   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or
by the federal government, has been issued, and, if so, where and when, or if
any such license has been revoked the reasons therefor;
      (10)   The date of incorporation, if an Illinois corporation, or the date
of becoming qualified under the Illinois Business Corporation Act to transact
business of Illinois if a foreign corporation; and
      (11)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of
this state or of the United States, or any ordinance of the village in the
conduct of his or her place of business.
   (B)    All managers and assistant managers for all types of licensed
businesses must file applications pursuant to this section as if they were
applicants for individual licenses, must meet all pertinent licensing
requirements of this chapter, and must be approved by the Local Commissioner.
The application, approval, and qualification requirements for managers and
assistant managers shall be conditions attached to the license of the business
employing them, and any violations of those requirements can result in license
penalties for the employing business, including suspension, revocation, or
fines.
   (C)   (1)   The Local Commissioner may, in the exercise of his or her
discretion, require any applicant for a new village liquor license, or any
applicant for a renewal of a village liquor license, to be fingerprinted
whether the applicant be an individual or a partnership. Should the applicant
be a corporation, the Local Commissioner may, within his or her discretion,
require the following to be fingerprinted:
         (a)   The officers, manager, or director of the corporation; or
         (b) Any stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than
5% of the capital stock of the corporation.
      (2)    All fingerprinting shall be done by the Police Department.
Fingerprints shall be submitted to the appropriate state and federal agencies
for processing as available. The cost of fingerprinting shall be paid by the
applicant.
   (D)   The Local Commissioner shall issue a written acceptance or rejection
of an application within 60 days of its receipt by the Commissioner or Clerk in
his or her behalf; or shall notify an applicant of the reasons for further time
being necessary to complete the investigation or processing; or shall schedule
a hearing on the application as allowed by 235 ILCS 5/7-9.
Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   License applications, see ILCS Ch. 235 5/4-1, 4-7, and 7-1
§ 112.05  RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSEES.
   (A)   The fact that an applicant has been convicted of or has been placed on
supervision for a drug or alcohol-related offense or suspension of a liquor
license in any other jurisdiction shall be considered in the review of an
application for any license or renewal thereof, and may be the basis for the
denial of the license or renewal of any license hereunder. For purposes of this
chapter, ALCOHOL-RELATED OFFENSE includes driving while under the influence of
intoxicating liquor, and any offenses involving the possession, transfer, or
consumption of alcohol.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C), no liquor license shall
be issued to:
      (1)   An individual person who is not a resident of the village;
      (2)   An individual person who is not of good character and reputation in
the community in which the person resides, or is an habitual user of alcohol,
drugs, narcotics, marijuana, or controlled substances;
      (3)   An individual person who is not a citizen of the United States;
      (4)   An individual person who has been convicted of a felony under
federal or state law;
      (5)   An individual person who has been convicted of being the keeper or
is keeping a house of ill fame;
      (6)   An individual person who has been convicted of pandering or other
crime or misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
      (7)   An individual person whose license under this chapter or under the
Liquor Control Act has been revoked for cause;
      (8)   An individual person who at the time of application for renewal of
any license issued hereunder would not be eligible for the license upon a first
application;
      (9)   A copartnership, if any general partnership thereof or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than 5% of the aggregate limited partner
interest in the copartnership, would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than residence;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer, manager, or director thereof, or
any stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the
stock of the corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder
for any reason other than United States citizenship and residence within the
village;
      (11)   A corporation, unless it is incorporated in this state, or unless
it is a foreign corporation which is qualified under the Business Corporation
Act to transact business in this state;
      (12)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
by the licensee, and is a resident or becomes a resident of the village within
one year of adoption of this code of ordinances;
      (13)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or
state law concerning the manufacture, possession, or sale of alcoholic liquor,
or who shall have forfeited a bond to appear in court to answer charges for any
violation;
      (14)   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for
which the license is issued;
      (15)   Any law enforcing village public official, officer, or employee or
member of any village board or commission; and no official shall be interested
in any way, either directly or indirectly, in the manufacture, sale, or
distribution of alcoholic liquor;
      (16)   Any person, firm, or corporation not eligible for a state retail
liquor dealer’s license;
      (17)   Any applicant who fails to obtain a state liquor license;
      (18)   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be
operated by the licensee;
      (19)   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as
proscribed by 720 ILCS 5/28-1(a)(3) through (a)(11), 28-1.1, or 28-3, or as
proscribed by a statute replacing any of the aforesaid statutory provisions;
      (20)   Federal gaming device or wagering stamps; or
      (21)   A person or entity to whom a federal wagering stamp has been
issued by the federal government, unless the person or entity is eligible to be
issued a license under 230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq. or 230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.
   (C)   A criminal conviction of a corporation is not grounds for the denial,
suspension, or revocation of a license applied for or held by the corporation
if the criminal conviction was not the result of a violation of any federal,
state or local law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic
liquor, the offense that led to the conviction did not result in any financial
gain to the corporation and the corporation has terminated its relationship
with each director, employee or controlling shareholder whose actions directly
contributed to the conviction of the corporation. The State Commission shall
determine if all provisions of this division (C) have been met before any
action on the corporation’s license is initiated.
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on state licensees, see 235 ILCS 5/6-2
§ 112.06  RECORD OF LICENSES.
   The Village Clerk shall keep a complete record of all licenses issued and
shall furnish the Chief of Police with a copy thereof. Upon revocation or
suspension of any license, the Village Clerk shall immediately give written
notice thereof to the Chief.
§ 112.07  INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   No license shall be granted to an applicant until the applicant shall
furnish evidence satisfactory to the Local Commissioner that the applicant is
covered by a policy of dram shop insurance issued by a responsible insurance
company authorized and licensed to do business in the state insuring the
applicant against liability which the applicant may incur under the provisions
of 235 ILCS 5/6-21 and specifically designating the village as an additional
insured. The evidence of the insurance policy shall indicate that the term of
the insurance is of sufficient length to encompass the period of the license
sought.
Statutory reference:
   Insurance requirements, see 235 ILCS 5/6-21 et seq.
§ 112.08  TERM OF LICENSE; RENEWALS; DISHONORED PAYMENT.
   (A)   Each license issued hereunder shall terminate on April 30 following
the issuance thereof. Any licensee may renew its license at the expiration
thereof, provided that it is then qualified to receive a license, and the
premises for which the renewal license is sought are suitable for the purpose,
and provided further that the renewal privilege herein provided for shall not
be construed as a vested right which shall in any case prevent the Board of
Trustees from decreasing or limiting the number of classes of licenses to be
issued
   (B)   A negotiable instrument received as payment for a license fee,
transfer fee, late fee, offer in compromise, pre-disciplinary conference
settlement, or fine imposed by order that is dishonored on presentation shall
not be considered payment and shall be cause for disciplinary action.
(235 ILCS 5/6-1)
Statutory reference:
   License term; renewal, see ILCS 235 5/6-1 et seq.
§ 112.09  TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall be a purely personal privilege, effective for a period
not to exceed one year after issuance unless sooner revoked as in this chapter
provided, and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to
attachment, garnishment, or execution, nor shall it be alienable or
transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or
hypothecated. A license shall cease upon the death of the licensee and shall
not descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution, provided that
executors or administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee, and the
trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when an estate consists in part
of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of the sale of alcoholic liquor
under the order of the appropriate court and may exercise the privileges of the
deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of the decedent, or
insolvency or bankruptcy, until the expiration of the license, but not longer
than six months after the death, bankruptcy, or insolvency of the licensee.
   (B)   A refund shall be made of that portion of the license fees paid for
any period in which the licensee shall be prevented from operating under the
license in accordance with this section.
Statutory reference:
   License transfers, see 235 ILCS 5/6-1
§ 112.10  CLASSIFICATION AND FEES.
   There shall be classes of licenses with an annual license fee as indicated
and set forth in this code of ordinances.
§ 112.11  INITIAL LICENSE APPLICATIONS; FEES.
   (A)   The first and initial license fee for new licenses issued between May
1 and October 31 of any year shall be in an amount equal to the annual fee
described in §
112.10 plus a nonrefundable fee as set forth in Title XV of this code of
ordinances to defray the costs of investigation of the applicant as provided
for and pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, payable in one installment.
The first and initial license fee for new licenses issued between November 1
and April 30 for any year shall be in an amount equal to one-half the annual
fee plus the nonrefundable fee to defray costs of investigation of applicant as
provided for and pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, payable in one
installment.
   (B)   Any sale, transfer, or assignment of more than 50% of the shares of a
corporation shall terminate the license for the purpose of payment of a fee for
a first and initial license.
   (C)   Any bankruptcy, insolvency of a license, or any sale, transfer, or
assignment of any copartner or copartnership or copartnership interests in a
license held by a copartnership shall terminate the license for the purpose of
payment of a fee for a first and initial license.
§ 112.12  NUMBER OF LICENSES ISSUED.
   All licenses issued hereunder shall be designated by the classification as
set forth in Title XV of this code of ordinances. There shall be a number of
licenses as may be from time to time determined by the Board of Trustees. There
may be in force at any time no more than that amount as set forth in Title V of
this code of ordinances.
§ 112.13  INCOMPLETE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applications for liquor licenses which are incomplete or fail to
contain the statements or information required by §
112.04 shall be rejected by the Local Commissioner. The Commissioner shall
issue a written rejection of the application setting forth the deficiencies in
the application within 60 days of its receipt by the Commissioner or by the
Village Clerk. Prior to this rejection, the applicant may submit the additional
information or statements required to complete the application in accordance
with §
112.04.
   (B)   Administrative or legal expenses incurred in reviewing incomplete
liquor license applications, advising the applicant of the deficiencies, and
rejecting the applications shall be paid by the applicant. A bill or invoice
shall be submitted to the applicant specifying the additional administrative or
legal expenses incurred in processing the applicant's incomplete liquor license
application, which shall be paid by the applicant together with the annual
license fee prior to the issuance of the liquor license.
§ 112.14  DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All these fees shall be paid to the Village Clerk at the time application is
made. Although the license is payable at the time of making application for
license, the Local Commissioner may divide the annual license fee into two
payments, each payable semi-annually. In the event the license applied for is
denied, the fee shall be returned to the applicant, except for the
nonrefundable fee set forth in §
112.11. If the license is granted, then the fee shall be deposited as set forth
above, and no portion thereof shall be refunded, except as set forth in §
112.09.
§ 112.15  CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Closing hours. Shall be as set forth in Title XV of this code of
ordinances.
   (B)   Election days. Licensees may sell at retail any alcoholic liquor on
the day of any national, state, county, or village election, including primary
elections, during the hours the polls are open, within the political area in
which the election is being held.
   (C)   Refilling original packages. No person licensed under this chapter
shall fill or refill, in whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic
liquor with the same or any other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor; and it
shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession for sale at
retail any bottles, casks, or other containers containing alcoholic liquor,
unless in original packages, except vinous beverages and pitchers of beer as
permitted elsewhere herein.
   (D)   Quantity sales for on-premises consumption. It shall be unlawful for
any licensee, other than any as set forth in Title XV of this code of
ordinances, within the meaning of that term as defined in this chapter, to
sell, give away, or permit to be sold, served, or given away for consumption on
the licensed premises any distilled spirits except by the glass, in individual
servings not exceeding three fluid ounces.
   (E)   Displaying license. Every licensee shall cause the license or licenses
to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed
premises.
Penalty, see §
112.99
LOCATION, BUILDING, AND PREMISES RESTRICTIONS
§ 112.30  LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic
liquor within 100 feet of any church, school, hospital, home for the aged or
indigent persons, or for veterans, their wives or children, or any military or
naval station; provided that this prohibition shall not apply to hotels
offering restaurant service, regularly organized clubs, or restaurants or other
places where the sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business
carried on, if the place of business or use so exempted is established for
these purposes prior to the establishment of any such church, school, home for
the aged or indigent persons, or for veterans, their wives or children, or any
military or naval station, nor to the renewal of a license for the sale at
retail of alcoholic liquor on premises within 100 feet of any church or school,
where the church or school has been established within the 100 feet since the
issuance of the original license. In the case of a church, the distance of 100
feet shall be measured to the nearest part of any building used for worship
services or educational programs and not to property boundaries.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the issuance of a license to a
church or private school to sell at retail alcoholic liquor, if any such sales
are limited to periods when groups are assembled on the premises solely for the
promotion of some common object other than sale or consumption of alcoholic
liquor.
   (C)   No license shall be issued to any person for the sale of any alcoholic
liquor at any store or other place of business where the majority of customers
are minors of school age, or where the principal business transacted consists
of school books, school supplies, food, lunches, or drinks for the minors.
   (D)   A license issued hereunder shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor
only in the premises described in the application and license. The location may
be changed only when and upon the written permit to make the change shall be
issued by the Local Commissioner. No change of location shall be permitted
unless the proposed new location is in compliance with the provisions and
regulations of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.31  SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, or for the
storage of the liquor for sale, shall be kept in full compliance with any and
all village ordinances regulating the condition of premises used for the
storage or sale of food for human consumption.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.32  VIEW FROM STREET.
   (A)   In premises upon which the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the premises is licensed (other than as a restaurant, hotel, recreational
facility, or club) no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article, or thing
shall be permitted in the windows or upon the doors of the licensed premises
nor inside the premises, which shall prevent a clear view into the interior of
the licensed premises from the street, road, or sidewalk at all times. No
booth, screen, partition, or other obstruction nor any arrangement of lights or
lighting shall be permitted in or about the interior of the premises which
shall prevent a clear view of the entire interior from the street, road, or
sidewalk. All rooms where liquor is sold for consumption on the premises shall
be continuously lighted during business hours by natural light or artificial
white light so that all parts of the interior of the premises shall be clearly
visible.
   (B)   In case the view into any the licensed premises required by the
foregoing provisions shall be wilfully obscured by the licensee, or be
permitted to be obscured or in any manner obstructed, then the license shall be
subject to revocation in the manner herein provided. In order to enforce the
provisions of this section, the Village President shall have the right to
require the filing of plans, drawings, and photographs showing the clearance of
the view as above required.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.33  PREMISES RESTRICTIONS.
   No licensed premises shall be operated or occupied in violation of any
building, fire, health, or safety code, rule, regulation, occupancy, or
capacity limitation established or adopted by the village, the state, or if
applicable, the Fire Protection District for the city.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.34 PERSONNEL RESTRICTIONS.
   (A) Change in personnel.
      (1)   Any changes in partnerships, officers, directors, persons holding
directly or beneficially more than 5% of the stock or ownership interest,
managers or assistant managers of establishments licensed under this chapter
shall be reported in writing to the Local Commissioner within ten days of the
change. All new personnel shall meet all the standards of this chapter and must
otherwise qualify to hold a liquor license. All these changes in personnel
shall be subject to review by the Local Commissioner.
      (2)   When a license has been issued to a partnership and a change of
ownership occurs resulting in a partnership interest by one who is not eligible
to hold a liquor license, the license shall terminate.
      (3)   When a license has been issued to a corporation, and a change takes
place in officers, directors, managers, or shareholders of more than 5% of the
stock, resulting in the holding of office or the shares of stock by one who is
not eligible for a license, the license shall terminate.
      (4)   When a license has been issued to an individual who is no longer
eligible for a license, the license shall terminate.
   (B)   Employees. It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the
retail sale of alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with, or who is a
carrier of, any contagious, infectious, or venereal disease; and it shall be
unlawful for any person who is afflicted with or is a carrier of any such
disease to work in or about any premises or to engage in any way in the
handling, preparation, or distribution of the liquor. No employee, agent, or
manager, while on duty within the premises, shall use or consume any illegal
drugs or alcoholic liquor, or be under the influence of illegal drugs or
alcoholic liquor.
   (C)   Supervision. A licensee which operates with a manager or assistant
manager shall have on duty at all times the manager or assistant manager when
the license is in effect.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.35  PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Peddling. It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the
village.
   (B)   Gambling. It shall be unlawful to permit any gambling on any premises
licensed to sell alcoholic liquor.
   (C)   Solicitation. It shall be unlawful for any licensee, manager, or other
person in charge of any licensed premises where alcoholic liquor is sold or
offered for sale for consumption thereon to engage, employ, or permit the
engagement or employment of any person, nor shall any person be permitted to
remain on the premises who shall solicit any patron or customer thereof to
purchase alcoholic or nonalcoholic liquor or sexual favors or services for
herself, himself, or any other person; nor shall any person, whether employer,
entertainer, or otherwise, solicit any patron or customer therein to purchase
alcoholic or nonalcoholic liquor for herself, himself, or any other person
therein. However, nothing herein contained shall prohibit any adult manager,
waitress, or waiter who shall be regularly employed therein from accepting and
serving the order of a patron or customer in the regular course of employment
as the manager, waitress, or waiter.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.36  SALES TO MINORS, DRUNKARDS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A) No licensee or officer, associate, member, representative, agent, or
employee of the licensee shall sell, give, or deliver alcoholic liquor to any
person under the age of 21 years, or to any intoxicated person, or to any
person known to be an habitual drunkard, insane, mentally ill, mentally
deficient, or in need of mental treatment. No person, after purchasing or
otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor, shall sell, give, or deliver alcoholic
liquor to another person under the age of 21 years except in the performance of
a religious ceremony or service. It shall be unlawful for any person under the
age of 21 years to misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of purchasing or
obtaining alcoholic liquor in any place in the village where alcoholic liquor
is sold.
   (B)   In every place in the village where alcoholic liquor is sold, there
shall be displayed at all times in a prominent place a printed card which shall
be supplied by the Village Clerk and which shall read substantially as follows:
“WARNING TO PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 21 YEARS
You are subject to a fine of up to $500 under the ordinances of the Village of
De Land if you purchase or attempt to purchase alcoholic liquor, or
misrepresent your age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic
liquor.”
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a liquor license, or his or her
agent or employee, to suffer or permit any person under the age of 21 to be or
remain in any room or compartment adjoining or adjacent to or situated in the
room or place where the licensed premises is located; provided that this shall
not apply to any person under the age of 21 who is accompanied by a parent or
guardian, or to that portion of any licensed premises which derives its
principal business from the sale of service or commodities other than alcoholic
liquor. In addition to all other fines and penalties, the Local Commissioner
may suspend or revoke the liquor dealer’s license for any violation of this
division.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian to knowingly permit
any person of which he or she is the parent or guardian to violate any
provisions of this section.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to sell, give, or deliver alcoholic liquor to any
person under the age of 21.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to draw,
pour, or mix any alcoholic liquor in any licensed retail premises, and it shall
be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to dispense, sell, or
deliver any alcoholic liquor in the original package, bottle, or case for
consumption off the premises of any licensed establishment. Except for the
prohibitions provided for in this section, it shall be lawful for any person 18
years of age or older to work in a licensed premises, and to serve alcoholic
liquor.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.37  PURCHASE OR ACCEPTANCE OF GIFT BY MINORS; IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (A)   Purchase or possession of alcoholic liquor by person under 21 years of
age.
      (1)   Any person to whom the sale, gift or delivery of alcoholic liquor
is prohibited because of age shall not purchase or attempt to purchase or
accept a gift of alcoholic liquor or have alcoholic liquor in his or her
possession.
      (2)   If a licensee or the licensee’s agent or employee believes, has
reason to believe, or should have reason to believe that a sale or delivery of
alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of the age of the prospective recipient,
the licensee, agent, or employee shall, before making the sale or delivery,
demand presentation of some form of positive identification (containing proof
of age) issued by a public officer in the performance of his or her official
duties. Reasonable care in compliance with the provisions of this division
shall be competent evidence and may be considered in prosecution, revocation,
or suspension for the violation of any section of this chapter relating to
revocation or suspension for the violation of any other provision of this
chapter.
      (3)   No person shall transfer, alter, or deface such an identification
card, use the identification card of another, carry or use a false or forged
identification card, or obtain an identification card by means of false
information. No person shall purchase, accept delivery, or have possession of
alcoholic liquor in violation of this section.
      (4)   The consumption of alcoholic liquor by any person under the age of
21 years is forbidden.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the possession
and dispensing, or consumption by a person under the age of 21 years of
alcoholic liquor in the performance of a religious service or ceremony or under
the direct supervision and approval of the parents or parent of the underage
person in the privacy of a home.
Penalty, see §
112.99
VIOLATIONS
§ 112.50  VIOLATION OF TAX ACTS.
   (A)   In addition to other grounds specified in this chapter, the Local
Commissioner, upon the complaint of the State Department of Revenue, may refuse
the issuance or renewal of a retail license, or suspend or revoke the license,
for any of the following violations of any tax act administered by the state
department:
      (1)   Failure to make a tax return;
      (2)   The filing of a fraudulent return;
      (3)   Failure to pay all or part of any tax or penalty finally determined
to be due;
      (4)   Failure to keep books and records;
      (5)   Failure to secure and display a certificate or subcertificates of
registration; or
      (6)   Wilful violation of any rule or regulation of the State Department
of Revenue relating to the administration and enforcement of tax liability.
   (B)   Upon receiving notice from the State Department that a violation of
any items of division (A)(1) through (A)(6) have been corrected or otherwise
resolved to the state department's satisfaction, the Local Commissioner may
vacate an order of revocation.
(235 ILCS 5/6-3)
§ 112.51  SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION; COMPLAINTS AND HEARINGS.
   (A)   The Local Commissioner may, in accordance with the Liquor Control Act,
revoke or suspend any license issued by him or her, if he or she determines
that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of the Act or of any
ordinance or resolution enacted by the Board of Trustees of the village or any
applicable rule or regulation established by the Local Commissioner or the
state commission which is not inconsistent with law.
   (B)   (1)   In addition to the suspension or revocation, licensees may be
fined as set forth in §
112.99. License suspension and revocation proceedings shall be conducted
pursuant to 235 ILCS 5/7-5.
      (2)   Review of the Local Commissioner’s decision shall be as set forth
in 235 ILCS 5/7-9.
   (C)   Any five residents of the village shall have the right to file a
complaint with the Local Commissioner stating that any retailer licensee
subject to the jurisdiction of the Local Commissioner has been or is violating
the provisions of this chapter or the Liquor Control Act or the rules or
regulations issued pursuant thereto. The complaint shall be in writing in the
form prescribed by the Local Commissioner and shall be signed and sworn to by
the parties complaining. The complaint shall state the particular provision,
rule, or regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon
which belief is based. If the Local Commissioner is satisfied that the
complaint substantially charges a violation and that from the facts alleged
there is reasonable cause for the belief, he or she shall set the matter for
hearing and shall serve notice upon the licensee of the time and place of the
hearing and of the particular charge in the complaint.
(235 ILCS 5/7-7)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.52  FORFEITURE OF FEES.
   Whenever any license hereunder has been revoked as provided for in this
chapter, the licensee shall incur a forfeiture of all moneys that have been
paid for the license.
Statutory reference:
   Forfeiture of fees, see 235 ILCS 5/7-12
§ 112.53  USE OF PREMISES AFTER REVOCATION.
   (A)   When a license has been revoked for any cause, no license shall be
granted to any person for a period of one year thereafter for the conduct of
the business of manufacturing, distributing, or selling alcoholic liquor in the
premises described in the revoked license, unless the revocation order has been
vacated or unless the revocation order was entered as to the licensee only.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the issuance of a retail
license authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor incidental to a restaurant if:
      (1)   The primary business of the restaurant consists of the sale of food
where the sale of liquor is incidental to the sale of food and the applicant is
a completely new owner of the restaurant;
      (2)   The immediately prior owner or operator of the premises where the
restaurant is located operated the premises as a restaurant and held a valid
retail license authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor at the restaurant for
at least part of the 24 months before the change of ownership; and
      (3)   The restaurant is located 75 or more feet from a school.
(235 ILCS 5/7-13)
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person other than a licensee violating any provision of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $100 nor more than $750
for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   A licensee violating any provision of this chapter may be fined by the
Local Commissioner in addition to suspension or revocation. The fine shall not
exceed $1,000 for a first violation within a 12-month period, $1,500 for a
second violation within a 12-month period, and $2,500 for a third or subsequent
violation within a 12-month period. Each day on which the violation occurs
shall constitute a separate violation. Not more than $15,000 in fines under
this section may be imposed against any licensee during the period of the
licensee’s license.
   (C)   Proceeds of fines imposed by the Local Commissioner shall be paid into
the village treasury.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/7-5
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   CURFEW OF MINORS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER AND SAFETY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 130:  CURFEW OF MINORS
Section
   
130.01   Curfew
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  CURFEW.
   It is unlawful for a person less than 18 years of age to be present at or
upon any public assembly, building, place, street, or highway at the following
times unless accompanied and supervised by a parent, legal guardian, or other
responsible companion, at least 18 years of age, approved by a parent or legal
guardian, or unless engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of this
state authorize a person less than 18 years of age to perform:
   (A)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. Saturday;
   (B)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. Sunday; and
   (C)   Between 10:30 p.m. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and 6:00 a.m. on
the following day.
(Prior Code, § 20-30)  (Ord. 98-, passed 6-1-1998)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a parent, legal guardian, or other person to
knowingly permit a person in his or her custody, or control, to violate §
130.01 of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person violating §
130.01 shall be guilty of a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 20-30)  (Ord. 98-,  passed 6-1-1998)
CHAPTER 131:  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER AND SAFETY
Section
Assault and Deadly Weapons
   
131.01   Assault
   
131.02   Throwing missiles
   
131.03   Concealed weapons
   
131.04   Discharge of firearms
Disturbing the Peace
   
131.15   Disturbing the peace
   
131.16   Intoxication
Assemblies
   
131.30   Unlawful assemblage
   
131.31   Allowing unlawful assemblage
   
131.32   Disturbing lawful assemblies
ASSAULT AND DEADLY WEAPONS
§ 131.01  ASSAULT.
   Whoever shall assault, strike, or fight another, or shall challenge, or
offer to fight another, or shall be guilty of any affray or any conduct
calculated to provoke a breach of the peace within the village, shall be guilty
of a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 20-1)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02  THROWING MISSILES.
   Whoever shall purposely or heedlessly cast, or throw, any stone, brick bat,
or other missile from, or into, any public place, or at any house, barn, or
person, or at any electric light globe or fixture within the village, shall be
guilty of a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 20-6)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03  CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   General prohibition. Except as otherwise authorized by the Firearm
Concealed Carry Act, 430 ILCS 66/1 et seq., whoever shall within said village
wear or carry concealed about his or her person any pistol, revolver,
slingshot, metallic knuckles, Bowie knife, dirk, razor, or other dangerous or
deadly weapon; or whoever shall display, or flourish, any such weapon, in a
boisterous or threatening manner, shall, on conviction, be guilty of a petty
offense, provided that the provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any
police officer, constable or other peace office while in the discharge of his
or her duty, nor to any person summoned by an officer to aid him or her in
making an arrest, or in preserving the peace.
   (B)   Exemptions. Division (A) of this section does not apply to or affect
any of the following:
      (1)   Peace officers or any person summoned by a peace officer to assist
in making arrests or preserving the peace while actually engaged in assisting
the officer;
      (2)   Wardens, superintendents, and keepers of prisons, penitentiaries,
jails, and other institutions for the detention of persons accused or convicted
of an offense, while in the performance of their official duty, or while
commuting between their homes and places of employment;
      (3)   Members of the armed services or reserve forces of the United
States or the State National Guard or the Reserve Officers Training Corps,
while in the performance of their official duty;
      (4)   Special agents employed by a railroad or a public utility to
perform police functions and guards of armored car companies, while actually
engaged in the performance of the duties of their employment or commuting
between their homes and places of employment; watchpersons while actually
engaged in the performance of the duties of their employment;
      (5)   Persons licensed as private security contractors, private
detectives or private alarm contractors or employed by an agency certified by
the Department of Professional Regulation, if their duties include the carrying
of a weapon under the provisions of the Private Detective, Private Alarm,
Private Security, Fingerprint Vendor, and Locksmith Act of 2004, 225 ILCS 447/
5-5 et seq., while actually engaged in the performance of the duties of their
employment or commuting between their homes and places of employment, provided
that the commuting is accomplished within one hour from departure from home or
place of employment, as the case may be. Persons exempted under this division
shall be required to have completed a course of study in firearms handling and
training approved and supervised by the Department of Professional Regulation
as prescribed by 225 ILCS 447/5-5 et seq., prior to becoming eligible for this
exemption. The Department of Professional Regulation shall provide suitable
documentation demonstrating the successful completion of the prescribed
firearms training. This documentation shall be carried at all times when the
persons are in possession of a concealable weapon;
      (6)   Any person regularly employed in a commercial or industrial
operation as a security guard for the protection of persons employed and
private property related to that commercial or industrial operation while
actually engaged in the performance of their duty or traveling between sites or
properties belonging to the employer, and who, as a security guard, is a member
of a security force of at least five persons registered with the Department of
Professional Regulation; provided, that the security guard has successfully
completed a course of study, approved by and supervised by the Department of
Professional Regulation, consisting of not less than 40 hours of training which
shall include theory of law enforcement, liability for acts, and the handling
of weapons. A person shall be considered to be eligible for this exemption if
he or she has completed the required 20 hours of training for a security
officer and 20 hours of required firearm training, and has been issued a
firearm control card by the Department of Professional Regulation. Conditions
for the renewal of firearm control cards issued under the provisions of this
section shall be the same as for those cards issued under the provisions of 225
ILCS 447/5-5 et seq. This firearm control card shall be carried by the security
guard at all times when he or she is in possession of a concealable weapon;
      (7)   Agents and investigators of the State Legislative Investigating
Commission authorized by the Commission to carry the weapons specified in §
131.03(A) while on duty in the course of any investigation for the Commission;
      (8)   Persons employed by a financial institution for the protection of
other employees and property related to that financial institution, while
actually engaged in the performance of their duties, commuting between their
homes and places of employment, or traveling between sites or properties owned
or operated by the financial institution, provided that any person so employed
has successfully completed a course of study, approved by and supervised by the
Department of Professional Regulation, consisting of not less than 40 hours of
training which includes theory of law enforcement, liability for acts, and the
handling of weapons. A person shall be considered to be eligible for this
exemption if he or she has completed the required 20 hours of training for a
security officer and 20 hours of required firearm training, and has been issued
a firearm control card by the Department of Professional Regulation. Conditions
for renewal of firearm control cards issued under the provisions of this
section shall be the same as for those issued under the provisions of 225 ILCS
447/5-5 et seq. This firearm control card shall be carried by the person so
trained at all times when the person is in possession of a concealable weapon.
For purposes of this division, FINANCIAL INSTITUTION means a bank, savings and
loan association, credit union, or company providing armored car services;
      (9)   Any person employed by an armored car company to drive an armored
car while actually engaged in the performance of his or her duties;
      (10)   Persons who have been classified as peace officers pursuant to 20
ILCS 2910/0.01 et seq.;
      (11)   Investigators of the Office of the State’s Attorneys Appellate
Prosecutor authorized by the board of governors of the Office of the State’s
Attorneys Appellate Prosecutor to carry weapons pursuant to § 7.06 of 725 ILCS
210/1 et seq.;
      (12)   Special investigators appointed by a State’s Attorney under 55
ILCS 5/3-9005;
      (13)   Probation officers while in the performance of their duties, or
while commuting between their homes, places of employment or specific locations
that are part of their assigned duties, with the consent of the Chief Judge of
the circuit for which they are employed;
      (14)   Court security officers while in the performance of their official
duties or while commuting between their homes and places of employment, with
the consent of the Sheriff; or
      (15)   A person employed as an armed security guard at a nuclear energy,
storage, weapons, or development site or facility regulated by the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission who has completed the background screening and training
mandated by the rules and regulations of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
(Prior Code, § 20-8)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.04  DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   Whoever shall, in an inhabited part of said village, fire or discharge any
cannon, anvil, gun, pistol, or other firearm, or shall set on fire or explode
any torpedo, firecracker, fireball, rocket, or other fireworks whatsoever, or
shall make or kindle any bonfire, shall be guilty of a petty offense, provided
the discharge of firearms, the setting off or explosion of fireworks, and the
making of bonfires upon national holidays, and in the celebration of other
public and general events, or the discharge of blank cartridges by any military
company when on parade and in command of the commanding officer, or the
discharge of firearms by a village officer or other person in the discharge of
any legal duty, when the same is done in such a manner as not to endanger the
safety of any person or injure any property, shall not be deemed a violation of
this section.
(Prior Code, § 20-18)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
DISTURBING THE PEACE
§ 131.15  DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   To the extent not in conflict with current federal and state law, whoever
shall disturb the peace and quiet of the village, or of any private family, or
of any citizen, or shall be guilty of any violent, tumultuous, offensive, or
disorderly conduct, or shall make any loud or unusual noise or disturbance, or
shall use any obscene, profane, vulgar, offensive, or unseemly language within
said village, shall be guilty of a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 20-2)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.16  INTOXICATION.
   Whoever shall be found in a state of intoxication or drunkenness, in any
public place or place open to the public view within the village, or in any
private house or place, to the annoyance of any person or persons, shall upon
conviction be guilty of a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 20-9)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
ASSEMBLIES
§ 131.30  UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLAGE.
   Any two or more persons who shall, within the village, assemble together for
any unlawful purpose, or who being assembled, and shall act on concert to do an
unlawful act with force and violence against the property of the village, or
the person or property of another person, or against the peace, or to the
terror of citizens or other persons, or who shall make any movement or
preparation therefor, shall be severally guilty of a petty offense, and shall
be guilty of a further petty offense upon refusal to disperse, after being
requested to do so by any police officer or other officer of the village.
(Prior Code, § 20-3)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.31  ALLOWING UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLAGE.
   Whoever shall knowingly suffer or permit any assemblage for the purpose of
committing any unlawful act, or breach of the peace, or any riotous, offensive,
or disorderly conduct, in or upon any premises owned by him or her or under his
or her control, within said village shall be guilty of a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 20-4)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.32  DISTURBING LAWFUL ASSEMBLIES.
   Whoever shall interrupt or disturb any congregation or assembly met for
religious worship, or any other lawful purpose, or any funeral procession or
assembly, by making any loud or unusual noise, or by profane, obscene, or
improper discourse or conduct, shall be guilty of a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 20-5)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132:  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS AND PROPERTY
Section
Destroying Property; Public Areas
   
132.01   Destroying property
   
132.02   Defacing property
   
132.03   Defacing poster
   
132.04   Injuring trees
   
132.05   Public parks
   
132.06   Climbing light poles
   
132.07   Climbing upon vehicles
Illegal Gambling
   
132.20   Gambling
   
132.21   Gambling houses
Other Offenses
   
132.35   Obscene literature
   
132.36   Indecent exhibitions
   
132.37   Bawdy houses
   
132.38   Frequenter of bawdy houses; inmate
   
132.39   Hanging signs
   
132.40   Obstructing street crossings
   
132.41   Vehicle stands
   
132.42   Selling of poisons
   
132.43   Playing upon trains
   
132.44   Open vaults
   
132.45   Aiding or advising violation
DESTROYING PROPERTY; PUBLIC AREAS
§ 132.01  DESTROYING PROPERTY.
   Whoever shall willfully, maliciously, or negligently break, deface, injure,
or destroy any property belonging to the state, county, or village, or any
private property within the village, shall be guilty of a petty offense for
which the minimum fine shall be $50, and shall also be liable for the costs of
repairing the injuries committed, which may be recovered in the same suit or by
a separate action.
(Prior Code, § 20-22)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02  DEFACING PROPERTY.
   Whoever shall, without the consent of the owner or occupant of the premises,
post, put up, stick, or place any handbill, placard, showbill, or notice upon
any building or fence, or shall cut, mark, scratch, deface, or otherwise injure
any fence, gate, or railing within said village, or any part of such building,
shall be guilty of a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 20-25)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03  DEFACING POSTER.
   No person or persons shall cover, mutilate, deface, tear down, destroy, or
injure in any manner any poster, bill, or advertisement lawfully upon any
billboard, or other place within said village, within ten  days after the same
may have been posted, or until after the expiration of the date therein, where
the same are dated, shall be guilty of a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 20-26)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.04  INJURING TREES.
   Any person not being the owner who shall, within said village, cut, injure,
remove, or destroy any fruit, ornamental, or shade tree, or the boxing around
the same, or any fence, railing, gate, post, or sign upon any public ground,
lawn, sidewalk, or private premises, against the consent of the owner or
occupant thereof, or shall trespass upon any private premises or public
grounds, or injure, take away, or destroy any tree, shrub, fruit, plant,
vegetable, or other thing which may be therein for ornament or utility, shall
be guilty of a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 20-23)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.05  PUBLIC PARKS.
   Whoever shall injure, or in any manner interfere with or disturb, any tree,
flower, shrub, or other thing in any park, or injure, cut, break, or deface any
set, tree, lamp, shrub, flower, or other thing in such park, shall be guilty of
petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 20-24)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.06  CLIMBING LIGHT POLES.
   Whoever shall, in said village, climb upon any street-lamp, post, telephone,
telegraph, electric light pole, or water tower, or shall hang, or place upon,
or against the same any goods, boxes, fuel, or other material, shall be guilty
of a petty offense, provided that this section shall not apply to agents or
employees of any electric light company, telegraph, or telephone company in
making any proper and necessary repairs, or adjustment, of wires or lights for
his or her respective lines or plants.
(Prior Code, § 20-27)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.07  CLIMBING UPON VEHICLES.
   Whoever shall climb upon or take hold of any vehicle while the same may be
in motion, or attach a sled, bicycle, or cart to any such vehicle, shall be
guilty of a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 20-7)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
ILLEGAL GAMBLING
§ 132.20  GAMBLING.
   Whoever shall be an inmate of any gaming house or room, or place used for
the purpose of gaming within said village, or shall be in any room connected
therewith, or shall frequent or visit the same, or be found therein, or whoever
shall, within said village, place for money or any other valuable article or
thing, at any game with cards, dice, billiards, or any other instrument or
device whosoever, or whoever shall bet on any such game when played by others,
shall be guilty of a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 20-13)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.21  GAMBLING HOUSES.
   Whoever shall, within said village, setup, keep, maintain, or support any
gambling house or room, or place used for the practice of gaming, or playing
for money or property or anything of value, or shall knowingly permit or suffer
any building or premises, owned or controlled by him or her, to be used for any
such purpose, or whoever shall keep or use, or permit to be kept or used, in
any building or place occupied, owned, or controlled by such persons, any keno
or faro table, wheel of fortune, roulette, shuffleboard, cards, or other
instrument or device commonly used for the purpose of gambling, or whoever
shall keep, or have in his or her possession, any such gaming instruments or
devices for the purpose of gaming therewith, shall be guilty of a petty
offense.
(Prior Code, § 20-11)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
OTHER OFFENSES
§ 132.35  OBSCENE LITERATURE.
   To the extent not in conflict with current federal and state law, any person
who shall bring, or cause to be brought into said village, for the purpose of
sale or exhibition, or shall keep, sell, offer, or expose for sale, or in any
way circulate or distribute any obscene or indecent publication, book,
pamphlet, paper, print, picture, illustration, model, cast, or any instrument
or article of indecent or immoral use, or shall advertise the same for sale or
exhibition, shall on conviction be guilty of a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 20-10)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.36  INDECENT EXHIBITIONS.
   To the extent not in conflict with current federal and state law, whoever
shall exhibit or perform, or assist in exhibiting or performing, in said
village, any obscene, indecent, or lewd play, or other such representation, or
shall knowingly permit or suffer the same to be exhibited or performed in any
building or hall, owned or controlled by him or her, shall, in each case, be
guilty of a petty offense, for which the minimum fine shall be $50.
(Prior Code, § 20-12)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.37  BAWDY HOUSES.
   Whoever shall, within said village, or within three miles of the outer
boundaries thereof, keep or maintain, directly or indirectly, any bawdy or
disorderly house, house of ill fame or of assignation, or place used for the
practice of fornication or adultery, shall be guilty of a petty offense for
which the fine shall be $50 for each offense, and be subject to a further fine
in like sum for every 24 hours after the first conviction that such house shall
be continued or maintained.
(Prior Code, § 20-14)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.38  FREQUENTER OF BAWDY HOUSES; INMATE.
   Whoever shall be an inmate or occupant of, or shall visit or frequent, or be
found in any bawdy house, house of ill fame, or of assignation, or place used
for the practice of fornication or adultery, within said village, or within
three miles from the limits thereof, shall be guilty of a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 20-15)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.39  HANGING SIGNS.
   Whoever shall hang a sign that shall project from any store, or any other
building, into or over any sidewalk or street, unless the same shall be
elevated at least eight feet above the same, or shall any cellar door rise or
project above the surface of the sidewalk, shall be guilty of a petty offense,
and a like penalty for every day such violation shall continue after notice by
the Village Marshal, or Superintendent of Streets, to remove the same.
(Prior Code, § 20-16)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.40  OBSTRUCTING STREET CROSSINGS.
   Whoever shall stop any vehicle on any of the crossings in the village so as
to inconvenience persons crossing the same, or shall in any other manner
obstruct any crossing in the village, except so far as may be necessary, in
passing over and crossing the same, shall be guilty of a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 20-17)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.41  VEHICLE STANDS.
   Any owner or driver of any vehicle for hire shall make a regular stand or
stopping place in front of any building or premises in said village, except it
be in front of his or her own premises, without the consent of the owner or
occupant of such building or premises, or at a public stand authorized and
designated by chapter, shall be guilty of a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 20-28)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.42  SELLING OF POISONS.
   Whoever shall sell or deliver any poison known or used as a deadly poison
without legibly marking the name thereof and the word “poison” upon the phial,
wrapper, or other enclosure or package containing the same, or whoever shall
sell or deliver any arsenic, prussic acid, or other poison usually known or
used as a deadly poison to any person without registering the name of such
person and the kind and quantity, of the poison sold or delivered, and the
purpose for which the same was obtained, or whoever shall sell or deliver any
such poison to any person to him or her unknown, shall be guilty of a petty
offense. However, the sale of any such poison as medicine, upon the
prescription of a practicing physician, shall not be deemed a violation of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 20-19)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.43  PLAYING UPON TRAINS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to play upon, of, or about any
railroad track, depot, locomotive, or car within said village, or climb upon,
or jump from any car or train of cars, or from one car to another, while the
same may be in motion, and every person violating any of the provisions of this
section shall be guilty of a petty offense.
   (B)   It is hereby made the duty of the Village Marshal or any other police
officer of the village to vigorously enforce the provisions of this section,
and all railroad employees shall be, and are hereby empowered, to arrest all
persons found violating the same in relation to the cars or train of cars of
his or her respective companies or railroads operating in said village.
(Prior Code, § 20-20)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.44  OPEN VAULTS.
   Whoever shall leave open any cellar door, vault, well, cistern, excavation,
ditch, or other hole upon or adjoining any street, alley, or sidewalk without
securing and protecting the same so as to prevent the danger of persons or
animals from falling therein, shall be guilty of a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 20-21)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.45  AIDING OR ADVISING VIOLATION.
   Any person who shall aid, abet, assist, advise, or encourage any child,
lunatic, idiot, or other person in the violation of any ordinance, or any part,
chapter, or section of any ordinance of said village shall be prosecuted for
such offense as principal and be subject to the same penalty as though he or
she had committed the offense directly that he or she counseled the other to
commit.
(Prior Code, § 20-29)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC GROUNDS
      
152.   MOBILE HOMES AND TRAILERS
      
153.   TREES, SHRUBS, AND OTHER PLANTS
      
154.   ADDITIONS, MAPS, PLATS
      
155.   WATER WELLS
      
156.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
157.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Permit required
   
150.02   Completion of work authorized
   
150.03   Application; authorized
   
150.04   Amendments to application
   
150.05   Action of application
   
150.06   Building Official
Permits
   
150.20   Revocation of permit
   
150.21   Approval
   
150.22   Permit for removal
   
150.23   Compliance
   
150.24   Signature
   
150.25   Expiration
   
150.26   Permit costs
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to construct, alter, remove, or demolish, or to
commence the construction, alteration, removal, or demolition of a building,
mobile home, or structure, or install equipment for the operation of a building
or structure, without first filing with the Building Official an application,
in writing, and obtaining a formal permit.
(Prior Code, § 10-1)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02  COMPLETION OF WORK AUTHORIZED.
   Nothing in this chapter shall require changes in the plans, construction, or
designated use of a building or structure, or portion thereof, for which a
lawful permit has been heretofore issued, or which has been otherwise lawfully
authorized, and the construction of which shall have been actually begun within
90 days after this chapter becomes effective, and which the entire building or
structure shall be completed, as authorized, within two years thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 10-2)
§ 150.03  APPLICATION; AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   An application for a permit shall be submitted in such form as the
Building Official may prescribe. Such application shall contain the full names
and addresses of the applicant and of the owner, and if the owner is a
corporate body of its responsible officer. The application shall also describe
briefly the proposed work and shall give such additional information as may be
required by the Building Official for an intelligent understanding of the work
proposed.
(Prior Code, § 10-3)
   (B)   Applications shall be made by the owner or lessee, or agent of either,
or the architect, engineer, or builder employed in connection with the proposed
work. If such application is made by a person other than the owner in fee, it
shall be accompanied by a duly verified affidavit of the owner in fee, or the
person making the application, that the proposed work is authorized by the
owner in fee, and that the person making the application is authorized to make
such application.
(Prior Code, § 10-4)
§ 150.04  AMENDMENTS TO APPLICATION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the filing of amendments to an
application or to a plan, or other record accompanying the same, at any time
before the completion of the work for which the permit was issued. Such
amendments shall be filed with, and be deemed a part of, the original
application if approved before the certificate of occupancy has been issued;
otherwise, a new application for the alteration shall be made, and a permit
secured.
(Prior Code, § 10-5)
§ 150.05  ACTION OF APPLICATION.
   The Building Official shall examine applications for permits within a
reasonable time after filing. If after examination he or she finds no
objections to the same, and it appears that the proposed work will be in
compliance with the laws and ordinances applicable thereto, and the proposed
construction of work will be safe, he or she shall approve such application,
and issue a permit for the proposed work as soon as practicable. If his or her
examination reveals otherwise, he or she shall reject such application, note
his or her findings in a written report to be attached to the application, and
deliver a copy to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 10-6)
§ 150.06  BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The Building Official, appointed hereunder and charged with the
administration and enforcement of this chapter, is the President of the Board
of Trustees of the village.
(Prior Code, § 10-15)
PERMITS
§ 150.20  REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Building Official may revoke a permit or approval issued in case there
has been any false statement or misrepresentation as to a material fact in the
application, or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
(Prior Code, § 10-7)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.21  APPROVAL.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the Building Official
from issuing a permit for the construction of part of a building or structure
before the entire plans and detailed statements of said building or structure
have been submitted or approved, provided adequate information and detailed
statements have been submitted for the same, and have been found to comply with
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-8)
§ 150.22  PERMIT FOR REMOVAL.
   No permit to remove a building or structure shall be issued until notice of
application thereof shall have been given to the owners of property, adjoining
the property upon which said building or structure is to be moved, and to the
owners of wires or other impediments, the temporary removal of which will be
necessary, and an opportunity has been given said owners to be heard upon such
application; nor until a bond in an adequate sum has been filed with the
officer of proper authority to indemnify and save harmless the municipality
from damage.
(Prior Code, § 10-9)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.23  COMPLIANCE.
   All work performed under a permit issued by the Building Official shall
conform to the approved application and plans, and approved amendments thereto.
The location of all new construction, as shown on the approval plot plan, or an
approved amendment thereto, shall be strictly adhered to.
(Prior Code, § 10-10)
§ 150.24  SIGNATURE.
   Every permit issued by the Building Official under the provisions of this
chapter shall have his or her signature affixed thereto. This shall not prevent
him or her from authorizing a subordinate to affix the Building Official’s
signature.
(Prior Code, § 10-11)
§ 150.25  EXPIRATION.
   A permit under which no work has commenced within six months after issuance,
shall expire by limitation, and a new permit shall be secured before work is
started.
(Prior Code, § 10-12)
§ 150.26  PERMIT COSTS.
   Permit costs under this chapter shall be as follows:
   (A)   Permits to demolish: no fee; or
   (B)   Permits to construct, alter, or improve a building or structure: $1
per $1,000 of estimated cost.
(Prior Code, § 10-13)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   Violators of this chapter shall be considered guilty of a petty offense, and
each day of continuance of such violation shall be considered a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 10-14)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)
CHAPTER 151:  STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC GROUNDS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Excavations
   
151.02   Acquiring proper line
   
151.03   Encroachment
   
151.04   Building materials
   
151.05   Obstructions; encumbrances
   
151.06   Liability
Curbs; Boulevards
   
151.20   Location of curbs
   
151.21   Written permission
   
151.22   Grades to be established
   
151.23   Manner of grading
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01  EXCAVATIONS.
   No person not authorized by the President and Board of Trustees, or by
ordinance, shall make any excavation in any street, avenue, alley, sidewalk, or
public ground within the village without first obtaining the permission of the
President or the Superintendent of Streets.
(Prior Code, § 11-1)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.02  ACQUIRING PROPER LINE.
   Whoever shall erect, or cause to be erected, any building or fence upon the
line of any street, avenue, or alley of the village without first obtaining the
proper line thereof from a village surveyor, or other correct legal source or
authority, shall be guilty of a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 11-2)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03  ENCROACHMENT.
   (A)   The owner of any building, fence, or any structure or enclosure
already erected or built extending into or encroaching upon any street, avenue,
alley, or sidewalk within the village, who shall not have removed the same
within 30 days after being notified in writing to do so by the Superintendent
of Streets, shall be guilty of a petty offense for every day after conviction
that he or she shall fails or refuses to comply with the requirements of such
notice.
   (B)   The President and Board of Trustees may order and direct the Village
Marshal to take down or remove such obstruction or encroachment upon any
street, avenue, or alley, and the cost and expense of such taking down and
removal may be collected by suit in the name of the village against the person
or persons causing or erecting such encroachments or obstructions.
(Prior Code, § 11-3)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04  BUILDING MATERIALS.
   (A)   No contractor, builder, or other person shall encumber any street,
alley, or sidewalk in the village with building or other like materials without
a written permit from the President therefor, nor shall he or she, or they,
except in case of necessity, and then for a short time only, encumber or
obstruct more than one-half of any sidewalk; nor shall such obstruction
continue, in any case, longer than necessary in the diligent erection of such
buildings, or the prompt execution of the work.
   (B)   Whoever shall violate any provision of this section shall be guilty of
a petty offense for every day after the first conviction that he or she shall
continue in such violation.
(Prior Code, § 11-4)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.05  OBSTRUCTIONS; ENCUMBRANCES.
   Whoever shall place, throw, or leave, or shall cause to be placed, thrown,
or left, any obstruction or encumbrance in or upon any street, avenue, or
alley, except as shall be authorized by ordinance, shall be guilty of a petty
offense for every day that he or she shall neglect or refuse to remove such
obstruction or encumbrance after being notified in writing to do so by the
Superintendent of Streets.
(Prior Code, § 11-5)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06  LIABILITY.
   Any person who shall place or leave, or cause to be placed or left, any
encroachment, obstruction, or encumbrance in or upon any street, avenue, alley,
or sidewalk within said village shall, in all cases, be liable to the village,
and to private persons, for all injury or damage arising therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 11-6)  Penalty, see §
151.99
CURBS; BOULEVARDS
§ 151.20  LOCATION OF CURBS.
   The owners or occupants of property in said village shall be permitted to
set curb on the outside of boulevards on residence streets as follows:
   (A)   On Highway, Illinois, Indiana, Eastern, Western and Railroad Avenues,
a distance of 14 feet from the property line for each side of said streets;
   (B)   On Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, Short, First Street South, and
Second Street South, 12 feet from the property line, on each side of said
streets; and
   (C)   On Third Street South, ten feet from the property line on each side of
said street, upon compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 18-1)
§ 151.21  WRITTEN PERMISSION.
   No curb shall hereafter be set, or boulevard constructed, on any of the
streets of the village until written permission therefor shall be granted by
the Committee on Streets and Alleys; and no such permission shall be granted
until satisfactory assurance shall be given to said committee that the
necessary materials, as hereinafter provide, will be furnished on the ground
before the work is commenced, for curbing across the entire block where curbing
is needed or desired and that the boulevard will be promptly and properly
filled and graded under the supervision of the Superintendent of Streets.
(Prior Code, § 18-2)
§ 151.22  GRADES TO BE ESTABLISHED.
   Before any curb shall be set or any boulevard constructed in pursuance of
this section, the Village Superintendent of Streets and engineer shall
establish the grade of the street where a boulevard is proposed to be
constructed, under the direction of the Committee on Streets and Alleys, and
also make and establish the line upon which said curb shall be set, if a curb
be necessary or desired, and the curb line shall be the line for the edge of
the boulevard, nearest the center of the street.
(Prior Code, § 18-3)
§ 151.23  MANNER OF GRADING.
   Whenever any boulevard is proposed to be constructed, it shall be the duty
of the Village Superintendent of Streets to do the necessary grading of the
street outside of the boulevard, and set the curb if one be required, surplus
dirt if any used in filling the boulevard thus provided for, and  the owners or
occupants of adjacent property to furnish the materials for setting the curb if
one be desired, and the balance of any dirt that may be necessary to bring the
boulevard to proper grade, as hereinbefore provided, and either sod the same,
or sow the same, with grass seed as soon after the grading is done as the
season will permit.
(Prior Code, § 18-4)
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall hereafter plant any tree, or set any curb, or
construct any boulevard otherwise than as provided by §§
151.20 through
151.23, and §§
153.15 through
153.17, shall be guilty of a petty offense for each offense, and the Village
Superintendent of Streets shall at once remove such curb and tree, and so much
of said boulevard as may interfere or obstruct the flow of water in any gutter,
as at the time used, and the cost of all such removal shall be added to, and
made part of, such penalty.
(Prior Code, § 18-6)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)
CHAPTER 152:  MOBILE HOMES AND TRAILERS
Section
   
152.01   Lot requirements
   
152.02   Location of adjacent lot
   
152.03   Access to street
   
152.04   Conformity
   
152.05   Definition
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01  LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   On any lot there shall be at least 5,000 square feet for each single mobile
home unit placed on said lot. Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
prohibit the use of a double-wide mobile home unit.
(Prior Code, § 15-1)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.02  LOCATION OF ADJACENT LOT.
   No mobile home unit or any structure, addition, or appurtenance thereto
shall be located less than five feet from the nearest adjacent lot boundary.
(Prior Code, § 15-2)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03  ACCESS TO STREET.
   Each mobile home unit shall abut or face a public highway, street, or alley,
which shall have unobstructed access to the same.
(Prior Code, § 15-3)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.04  CONFORMITY.
   All mobile home units or trailers located in violation of the provisions of
this chapter shall be removed or brought into conformity with all requirements
of §§
152.01 through
152.03, on or before a date not later than five years from the effective date
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 15-4)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.05  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOME UNIT OR TRAILER. A vehicle designed for transportation on
streets and highways on its own wheels, or on a flatbed or other trailer, and
arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling, complete and
ready for occupancy, except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly
operations, location on jacks or other permanent foundations, connections to
utilities, and the like.
(Prior Code, § 15-5)
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, company, or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects, or refuses to comply with or who resists the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a petty offense for which the
minimum fine shall be $50 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 15-6)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)
CHAPTER 153:  TREES, SHRUBS, AND OTHER PLANTS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Purpose and intent
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Permits
   
153.04   Public nuisances
Trees
   
153.15   Planting of trees
   
153.16   Trees to be trimmed
   
153.17   Failure to trim
Tree Commission
   
153.30   Establishment; members
   
153.31   Village Arborist
   
153.32   Interference with Arborist
   
153.33   Appeal
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01  PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote and protect the public
health, safety, and general welfare by providing for the regulation of the
planting, maintenance, and removal of trees, shrubs, and other plants within
the village.
   (B)   It is the intent of the Village Board that the terms of this chapter
shall be construed so as to promote:
      (1)   The planting, maintenance, restoration, and survival of desirable
trees, shrubs, and other plants within the village; and
      (2)   The protection of community residents from personal injury and
property damage, and the protection of the village from property damage, caused
or threatened by the improper planting, maintenance, or removal of trees,
shrubs, or other plants located within the village.
(Prior Code, § 32-2)
§ 153.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARBORICULTURAL SPECIFICATION AND STANDARDS OF PRACTICE FOR DE LAND or
ARBORICULTURAL SPECIFICATIONS MANUAL. A manual prepared by the Arborist
pursuant to the ordinance containing regulations and standards for the
planting, maintenance, and removal of trees, shrubs, and other plants upon
village-owned property.
   ARBORIST. The Village Arborist.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The record owner or contract purchaser of any parcel of
land.
   TREES, SHRUBS, AND OTHER PLANTS. All vegetation, woody or otherwise, except
lawn grass and flowers, less than 24 inches in height.
   VILLAGE-OWNED PROPERTY. Property within the village limits and:
      (A)   Owned by the village in fee simple absolute; or
      (B)   Implied, or expressly dedicated, to the public for present or
future use for purposes of vehicular or pedestrian traffic, or for public
easements.
(Prior Code, § 32-3)
§ 153.03  PERMITS.
   (A)   No person, except the Arborist, an agent of the Arborist, or a
contractor hired by the Arborist, may perform any of the following acts without
first obtaining from the Arborist a permit for which no fee shall be charged,
and nothing in this section shall be construed to exempt any person from the
requirements of obtaining any additional permits as are required by law:
      (1)   Plant on village-owned property, or treat, prune, remove, or
otherwise disturb any tree, shrub, or other plant located on village-owned
property, except that this provision shall not be construed to prohibit owners
of property adjacent to village-owned property from watering or fertilizing,
without a permit, any tree, shrub, or other plant located on such village-owned
property;
      (2)   Trim, prune, or remove any tree, or portions thereof, if such tree,
or portions thereof, reasonably may be expected to fall on village-owned
property, and thereby to cause damage to persons or property;
      (3)   Place on village-owned property, either above or below ground
level, a container for trees, shrubs, or other plants;
      (4)   Damage, cut, tap, carve, or transplant any tree, shrub, or other
plant located on village-owned property;
      (5)   Attach any rope, wire, nail, sign, poster, or any other human-made
object to any tree, shrub, or other plant located on village-owned property;
and/or
      (6)   Dig a tunnel or trench on village-owned property.
   (B)   Within seven days of receipt of the application, the Arborist shall
issue a permit to perform, within 30 days of the day of issuance, any of the
acts specified in §
153.31(G), for which a permit is requested whenever:
      (1)   Such acts would result in the abatement of a public nuisance;
      (2)   Such acts are not inconsistent with the development and
implementation of the Urban Forestry Plan, or with any regulations or standards
of the Arboricultural Specifications Manual;
      (3)   An application has been signed by the applicant and submitted to
the Arborist detailing the location, number, size, and species of trees,
shrubs, or other plants that will be affected by such acts, setting forth the
purpose of such acts, and the methods to be used, and presenting any additional
information that the Arborist may find reasonably necessary;
      (4)   The applicant agrees to perform the work for which the permit is
sought in accordance with the provisions of this section, the Urban Forestry
Plan, and with the regulations and standards set forth in the Arboricultural
Specifications Manual;
      (5)   The applicant certifies that he or she has read and understands
those provisions and the Urban Forestry Plan, this section, and of the
Arboricultural Specifications Manual which are pertinent to the work for which
the permit is sought; and
      (6)   If the work for which a permit is issued entails the felling of any
tree, or part thereof, located on private property, which as a result of such
felling reasonably may be expected to fall upon village-owned property, and if
such felling is done by one other than the owner of the property on which such
felling is done, then the applicant shall agree to indemnify and to hold the
village harmless for all damages resulting from work conducted pursuant to the
permit, and shall deposit with the Village Clerk a liability insurance policy
in the amount of $100,000 per person/$300,000 per accident for bodily injury
liability, and $50,000 aggregate for property damage liability, which policy
shall name the village as an additional insured.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to exempt public utility
companies or their agents from any of the requirements of this section.
(Prior Code, § 32-6)
§ 153.04  PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   The following are hereby declared public nuisances under this section:
      (1)   Any dead or dying tree, shrub, or other plant, whether located on
village-owned property or on private property;
      (2)   Any otherwise healthy tree, shrub, or other plant, whether located
on village-owned property or on private property, which harbors insects or
diseases which reasonably may be expected to injure, or harm, any tree, shrub,
or other plant;
      (3)   Any tree, shrub, or other plant, or portion thereof, whether
located on village-owned property or on private property, which, by reason of
location or condition, constitutes an imminent danger to the health, safety, or
welfare of the general public;
      (4)   Any tree, shrub, or other plant, or portion thereof, whether
located on village-owned property or on private property, which obstructs the
free passage of pedestrian or vehicular traffic, or which obstructs a street
sign on village property; and
      (5)   Any tree, shrub, or other plant, or portion thereof, whether
located on village-owned property or on private property, which dangerously
obstructs the view, as such may be determined by the Village Engineer pursuant
to this section.
   (B)   The officers, agents, servants, and employees of the village have the
authority to enter onto private property whereon there is located a tree,
shrub, plant, or other plant part that is suspected to be a public nuisance.
   (C)   The following are the prescribed means of abating public nuisances
under this section:
      (1)   Any public nuisance under this section which is located on village-
owned property shall be pruned, removed, or otherwise treated, by the property
owner, or his or her agent, in whatever fashion is required to cause the
abatement of the nuisance within a reasonable time after its discovery;
      (2)   Any public nuisance under this section, which is located on private
property, shall be pruned, removed, or otherwise treated by the property owner,
or his or her agent, in whatever fashion is required to cause the abatement of
the nuisance. No property owner may be found guilty of violating this provision
unless and until the following requirements of notice have been satisfied:
         (a)   The Arborist shall cause a written notice to be personally
served, or sent by registered mail, to the person to whom was sent the tax bill
for the general taxes for the last preceding year;
         (b)   Such notice shall describe the kind of tree, shrub, or other
nuisance, its location on the property, and the reason for declaring it a
nuisance;
         (c)   Such notice shall describe, by legal description or by common
description, the premises;
         (d)   Such notice shall state the actions that the property owner may
undertake to abate the nuisance; and
         (e)   Such notice will require the elimination of the nuisance no less
than 30 days after the notice is delivered or sent to the person to whom was
sent the tax bill for the general taxes for the last preceding year.
      (3)   The Arborist is empowered to cause the immediate abatement of any
public nuisance, provided that the nuisance is determined by the Arborist to be
an immediate threat to any person or property.
(Prior Code, § 32-7)  Penalty, see §
153.99
TREES
§ 153.15  PLANTING OF TREES.
   Any persons hereafter planting trees upon any of the streets of the village
shall plant them in a line at a distance 28 feet from the center line of a 60-
foot or less street. No trees shall be planted until the line, as provided in
this section, shall have been fixed and established by the Village Engineer or
Superintendent of Streets at the request of the person or persons desiring to
plant trees; and if the grade for boulevard or sidewalk has not been
established, it shall be his or her duty to establish the boulevard and
sidewalk grade across the entire block where any trees are sought to be
planted, and no tree shall be so planted as to interfere with the future
grading of the street.
(Prior Code, § 18-5)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.16  TREES TO BE TRIMMED.
   It shall be the duty of every owner, or person having the possession or
charge of any lot, block, or parcel of ground within the village, to keep all
shade or ornamental trees planted or growing in any street or thoroughfare
adjoining the lot, block, or tract of ground so owned or possessed by him or
her, properly trimmed up by cutting off the lower limbs or branches of such
trees to a height of not less than eight feet from the ground, and by cutting
off the tips or extremities of the branches so as not to obstruct a fair view
of the streets along which such trees are, or may be, growing.
(Prior Code, § 18-7)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.17  FAILURE TO TRIM.
   If any person whose duty it shall be, under the provisions of §
153.16 of this chapter, to trim up, and keep properly trimmed, any shade or
ornamental tree or trees in the village shall fail or neglect to do so after
being notified by the Superintendent of Streets, or shall insufficiently trim
the same to meet the requirements of this chapter, then it shall be the duty of
the Superintendent of Streets to proceed to trim such trees properly and
carefully, and in such manner as to meet the requirements of this section,
doing no unnecessary cutting of branches, or no injury to such trees, otherwise
than the necessary and proper trimming of the same, for which the
Superintendent of Streets shall be entitled to the same rate of compensation as
for other labor on the streets, and such compensation may be recovered from the
person owning the property by action of debt in the name of the village before
any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 18-8)  Penalty, see §
153.99
TREE COMMISSION
§ 153.30 ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Village Tree Commission (hereinafter “Tree Commission”) is hereby
established. Its functions and duties are limited to those set forth in this
section.
   (B)   The Tree Commission shall be composed of seven Commissioners. Five
Commissioners shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the approval of the Board.
These five Commissioners shall serve, without pay, and shall reside within the
village. The remaining two Commissioners shall be ex-officio and shall not
vote. The three ex officio commissioners shall be: the Director of Public
Works; the Director of Parks and Recreation of the De Land Park District, or
his or her representative; and the Arborist. Subject to the exceptions in
division (C) below, each Commissioner of the Tree Commission shall serve for a
term of three years.
   (C)   One of the five Commissioners initially appointed to the Tree
Commission, who is not an ex officio member, shall serve for a term of one
year; two of the five Commissioners initially appointed shall serve for a term
of three years. Terms shall start on a common date. Determination of the length
of terms of the five Commissioners initially appointed shall be by lot. The
Mayor shall designate the Chairperson of the Tree Commission.
   (D)   Within 30 days following the expiration of the term of any appointed
Commissioner, a successor shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of
the Board, and the successor shall serve for a term of three years. Should any
Commissioner resign or be removed from the Tree Commission, a successor shall
be appointed by the Mayor and shall serve for the unexpired period of the
vacated term. A member of the Tree Commission may be removed by the Mayor with
the approval of a majority of the Board.
   (E)   The Tree Commission shall perform the following duties:
      (1)   Within a reasonable time after the appointment of the Tree
Commission, upon call of the Chairperson of the Tree Commission, the Tree
Commission shall meet and adopt rules of procedure for regular and special
meetings to fulfill the duties imposed upon it by this section;
      (2)   The Tree Commission shall advise and consult the Arborist on any
matter pertaining to this chapter and its enforcement. The topics under which
this advice and consultation may be given may include, but are not limited to,
any of the following:
         (a)   Amendments to this chapter, and alterations or revisions to the
Arboricultural Specifications Manual, and alterations or revisions of the Urban
Forestry Plan;
         (b)   Policy concerning selection, planting, maintenance, and removal
of trees, shrubs, and other plants within the village;
         (c)   Allocation of funds to the Arbor Division, and expenditures of
funds by the Arbor Division;
         (d)   Establishment of educational and informational programs;
         (e)   Development of policies and procedures regarding the Arborist’s
duties; and
         (f)   Issuance of permits required by §
153.03.
      (3)   The Tree Commission, upon the request of any person who disagrees
with the decision of the Arborist, shall hear all issues of the disputes which
arise between the Village Arborist and any such person, whenever those issues
involve matters, or the interpretations, or enforcement, of the Arboricultural
Specifications Manual, the Urban Forest Plan, or of the interpretations or
enforcement of this chapter, including disputes regarding the issuance of
permits, or the concurrence or non-concurrence of the Arborist in permits
required under other ordinances or laws, or the abatement of nuisances. The
decision of a majority of the appointment members of the Tree Commission, with
regard to such dispute, shall be binding upon the Arborist. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to limit the jurisdiction of any court with respect
to such disputes.
(Prior Code, § 32-4)
§ 153.31  VILLAGE ARBORIST.
   The Arborist shall perform the following duties.
   (A)   The Arborist, with the assistance of the Tree Commission, shall
develop, and each subsequent year update, the Urban Forestry Plan. The Plan
shall outline urban forestry program activities for a minimum of the next five
years. This plan shall describe the urban forestry activities to be undertaken
by the village, the reasons for those activities, the possible funding source
(s), the means of accomplishing the activities, the alternatives available to
the village to fund or accomplish the activity, the projected date of
completion, and the consequences if the activity is not completed. Activities
may include, but are not limited to, street tree inventory, planting, tree
removal, beautification projects, and educational projects;
   (B)   The Arborist, with the assistance of the Tree Commission, shall
develop, and periodically review and revise, as necessary, the Arboricultural
Specifications Manual. This manual shall contain regulations and standards for
the planting, maintenance, and removal of trees, shrubs, and other plants upon
village-owned property.
   (C)   The Arborist shall cause the Urban Forestry Plan and the
Arboricultural Specifications Manual, and all revisions and amendments to it,
to be published and promulgated, and shall cause three copies of the Manual,
and all revisions and amendments to it, to be available for public inspection
at the office of the Village Clerk. Notice that such information is available
for public inspection shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation
with the county at least one weekday of each of four consecutive weeks
immediately following the initial availability of the Arboricultural
Specifications Manual, or revisions or amendments thereto. The Arboricultural
Specifications Manual and any revisions and additions thereto shall become
effective on the tenth day following the final publication in a newspaper of
general circulation required under this division (C).
   (D)   The Arborist shall make available to any interested person copies of
the Tree Ordinance, information about the activities of the Tree Commission,
copies of the Arboricultural Specifications Manual, and copies of the Urban
Forestry Plan.
   (E)   The Arborist shall administer the Urban Forestry Plan, this chapter,
and the provisions of the Arboricultural Specifications Manual.
   (F)   The Arborist shall perform whatever acts are necessary, including the
planting and maintenance of trees, shrubs, and other plants located on village-
owned property, conform with the Urban Forestry Plan, the Arboricultural
Specifications Manual, and this chapter.
   (G)   The Arborist shall issue such permits, as are required by §
153.03, and shall obtain, as a condition precedent to the issuance of such
permits, the written agreement of each person who applies for such permits that
he or she will comply with the requirements of this chapter, the Urban Forestry
Plan, and with the regulations, and shall have the right to inspect all work
performed pursuant to such permits. If the Arborist finds that the work
performed is not in compliance with the requirements of this chapter, the Urban
Forestry Plan, or with the regulations or standards of the Arboricultural
Specifications Manual, the Arborist shall provide written notice of his or her
finding to the permit applicant. The notice shall contain a copy of Section V
(c) (5) of this Ordinance and:
      (1)   The permit shall be nullified and shall be void;
      (2)   The Arborist may issue a written order that the permit applicant
cease and desist all work for which the permit was required;
      (3)   The permit applicant shall be subject to penalty under the terms of
§
153.03; and
      (4)   The Arborist may take steps to correct the results of the non-
complying work, and the reasonable costs of such steps shall be charged to the
permit applicant.
   (H)   The Arborist shall establish a program of public information and
education that will encourage the planting, maintenance, or removal of trees,
shrubs, and other plants on private property in furtherance of the goals of the
Urban Forestry Plan.
(Prior Code, § 32-5)
§ 153.32  INTERFERENCE WITH ARBORIST.
   No person shall unreasonably hinder, prevent, delay, or interfere with the
Arborist, or his or her agents, while engaged in the execution or enforcement
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 32-8)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.33  APPEAL.
   Any party who elects to dispute any action, or decision, by the Village
Arborist or Tree Commission shall be entitled to appeal to the Village Board
for a final determination.
(Prior Code, § 32-10)
§ 153.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, or who fails to
comply with any notice issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, upon
being found guilty of violation, shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $200
for each separate offense, and each day during which any violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall occur or continue shall be a separate offense.
If, as the result of the violation of any provision of §§
153.15 through
153.17, the injury, mutilation, or death of a tree, shrub, or other plant
located on village-owned property is caused, the cost of repair or replacement
of such tree, shrub, or other plant shall be borne by the party in violation.
The replacement value of trees and shrubs shall be determined in accordance
with the latest revision of A Guide to the Professional Evaluation of Landscape
Tree, Specimen Shrubs and Evergreens, as published by the International Society
of Arboriculture.
(Prior Code, § 32-9)
CHAPTER 154:  ADDITIONS, MAPS, PLATS
Section
   
154.01   Plats submitted
   
154.02   Recording plat
   
154.03   Selling lots before approval
   
154.04   Certificate of approval
§ 154.01  PLATS SUBMITTED.
   Any person who shall survey or plat any addition to the village, or any
lands adjoining or within the same, into lots, blocks, or other subdivisions,
or shall re-subdivide any block, lot, sublot, or part thereof within said
village, shall submit the map, plat, or subdivision thereof to the President
and Board of Trustees of the Village for its approval, and no such map, plat,
or other subdivision shall be valid, or be admitted to record in the office of
the Recorder of Deeds, in and for the county, until the same has been so
submitted to, and approved by, said President and Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 19-1)
§ 154.02  RECORDING PLAT.
   Any person who shall, as owner of the land so surveyed or platted, or as the
agent of any such owner, cause to be recorded in the office of the Recorder of
Deeds of the county any such map or plat of such subdivision mentioned in §
154.01, without having the same submitted to, and approved by, the President
and Board of Trustees of said village, before filing the same for record, shall
be guilty of a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 19-2)  (Ord passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.03  SELLING LOTS BEFORE APPROVAL.
   Any person who, as owner of the land so surveyed and platted, or as the
agent of any such owner, shall sell or offer to sell any lot, block,
subdivision, or part thereof in any such addition, division, or subdivision of
lands as mentioned in §
154.01 of this chapter before the map, plat, or subdivision thereof has been
submitted to, and approved by, the said President and Board of Trustees, shall
be guilty of a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 19-3)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.04  CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL.
   If the President and Board of Trustees of said village approve any map or
plat of any addition or subdivision submitted to it, as herein provided, a
certificate of such approval shall be endorsed upon said map or plat, signed by
the President and attested by the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 19-4)
CHAPTER 155:  WATER WELLS
Section
   
155.01   Permit
   
155.02   Application
   
155.03   Standards
   
155.04   Definitions
   
155.05   Impact statement
   
155.06   Reasonable use
   
155.07   Exempt wells
   
155.08   Reporting requirements
   
155.09   Cessation of drilling; production
   
155.10   Nuisance and injunction
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01  PERMIT.
   Any person, individual, municipality, or other entity shall be prohibited
from drilling any well, deepening any existing well, or lowering the pump of
any existing well, below its initial setting depth, within ten miles of the
corporate limits of the village without first obtaining a permit for such
purpose from the village.
(Prior Code, § 31.101)
§ 155.02  APPLICATION.
   Any person, individual, municipality, or other entity who shall propose to
do any of those things contained in §
155.01 shall make application for a permit through the Village Clerk upon forms
to be supplied by the Village Clerk. The village shall, from time to time,
enact resolutions concerning the content and form of said applications, and
adopt such rules and regulations as may be necessary to effectuate the purpose
of this chapter, and shall make the same available to individuals, firms,
municipal corporations, and other entities desiring to do any acts which are
subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 31.102)
§ 155.03  STANDARDS.
   Further, in order to protect the quality of the potable water supply of the
village, and minimize damage to water bearing formations, the following
standards shall apply to drilling, completion, and operation of any gas, oil,
injection, or water well, and to the abandonment of such wells, within the
village’s zone of protection.
   (A)   Any well, which penetrates the bedrock below the Mahomet Aquifer,
shall be completed by cementing a steel outer casing at least 25 feet into the
bedrock from the upper surface of the bedrock, and by cementing the annulus
between a production casing and the outer casing from the ground surface to a
point at least 25 feet below the surface of the bedrock. The cement shall have
a compression strength of at least 2,000 pounds per square inch, and shall be
at least one inch thick at all points other than at centering spacers.
   (B)   The casing of every well drilled deeper than 85 feet from the ground
surface without the use of a bentonite clay drilling mud, or which is completed
by introducing sand or gravel between the drill hole periphery and the well
casing, shall have the annulus sealed outside the casing above each sand and
gravel layer that is penetrated above the base of the Mahomet Aquifer. Each
seal shall be at least three feet thick and shall consist of bentonite clay or
portland cement concrete. Sand or gravel layers less than one foot thick are
exempt from this sealing standard.
   (C)   No water well shall be screened to produce water simultaneously from
two or more separate sand or gravel formations. For purposes of this standard,
sand and gravel layers, separated not more than three feet, may be considered a
single layer.
   (D)   Drilled wells which are abandoned shall be sealed by the well owner by
filling the casing with concrete through the portion of the well that is
between the bottom of the Mahomet Aquifer and three feet below the ground
surface. Abandoned dug wells shall be sealed in a manner approved by the state
Department of Public Health.
   (E)   No water well deeper than 75 feet shall be operated at such a high
rate of flow as to pull the water surface at the well below the top of the
aquifer from which it is drawing, except for the Mahomet Aquifer, at which case
it may be drawn 75 feet below the top of the aquifer. Nothing, however, shall
prevent a well owner from pumping collectively from his or her well, or wells,
a daily amount up to 200 gallons per acre from his or her contagious land which
contains the well, or wells. To facilitate monitoring the water level, each
well deeper than 75 feet shall be equipped with a drop tube that extends below
the bottom of the well screen (or bottom of pump if no screen is installed)
through which air may be pumped from the top of the well. No drop tube is
required if the combined pumping capacity of the well, or wells, is less than
200 gallons per acre.
   (F)   For any well that is screened, or open, in sand or gravel deeper than
75 feet below the ground surface, the suction intake of the pump shall be set
no lower (measured from ground surface) than twice the distance from that well
to a village well. This depth limitation may be waived if the village executes
a release which shall be recorded. The village, by resolution, may waive this
pump depth limitation for those wells within its corporate limits which are
more than twice the pumping setting depth inside the corporate limits.
   (G)   The party proposing to drill a well that will yield 100,000 gallons
per day or more shall invite representatives of the Illinois Water Survey to
observe any well tests, and will allow that agency to make tests if none are
otherwise performed, and shall supply the village with the results of such
tests when made available.
(Prior Code, § 31-103)
§ 155.04  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. Deemed to have taken effect when a well shall not have been
pumped for 1,000 consecutive days.
   ANY PERSON, FIRM, CORPORATION, MUNICIPALITY, OR OTHER ENTITY. Or any parties
thereof; any owner of the land, or the owner’s designated agent, including any
individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, corporation, trust,
estate, commission, board, public or private institution, unit of local
government, school district, conservation district, any interstate body, or any
other legal entity, or any person, firm, corporation, or other entity leasing
the ground upon which the point of withdrawal is located within the village’s
zone of protection.
   DRILLING. Actual drilling, setting of any pumps, testing of such well, and
actual operation of said well.
   POINT OF WITHDRAWAL. The point at which underground water is diverted by a
person from its natural state.
   REASONABLE USE. The use of water to natural wants and a fair share of
artificial wants. It does not include water used wastefully or maliciously.
   WELL. Any well which shall be used for the production of gas, oil, injection
or water.
   ZONE OF PROTECTION. The geographical area which lies within ten miles in any
direction of the village corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 31-104)
§ 155.05  IMPACT STATEMENT.
   Any person, firm, or corporation, or other entity, who shall apply, or who
is required to apply, for a permit to drill a well within the zone of
protection of the village shall supply to the village an impact statement. The
impact statement shall be prepared by a registered professional engineer from
the state, licensed by the appropriate licensing authority for registered and
professional engineers in the state. The impact statement shall show, in
detail, the type of well construction including, but not limited to, the depth,
the proposed formation into which he or she expects to drill, the amount of
water he or she expects to pump per day, whether the well will be cased or
uncased, how he or she intends to use the water, the amount of water he or she
expects to pump daily, weekly, monthly, and annually, the proposed method of
sealing between separate water bearing formations, the expected annual draw
down depth from the top of the aquifer into which the well is placed and what,
if any, resulted impact this would have on the village’s water supply, and
whether or not the use contemplated is a reasonable use.
(Prior Code, § 31-201)
§ 155.06  REASONABLE USE.
   Any person, firm, or corporation, or other entity, using any water well
within the zone of protection shall make only such use of the water extracted
therefrom as is reasonable.
(Prior Code, § 31-202)
§ 155.07  EXEMPT WELLS.
   Any well, either with a six inch diameter casing or smaller, or with a depth
to the lowest screen or casing opening of 75 feet or less, shall be exempt from
the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 31-203)
§ 155.08  REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person, firm, corporation, municipality, or other entity, who shall have
obtained a permit to drill a well within the jurisdiction of this chapter,
shall report to the President and Board of Trustees of the village all data
concerning the drilling, completion, setting of the pump, and testing of said
well, including, but not limited to, its initial non-pumping water level in the
water bearing formation in which the well is to be screened for pumping, the
depth to the pump intake from the top of the well casing, the well’s depth,
capacity, water level after drilling, draw down, and any other information
about the completion of the well and the testing of that well, as well as any
other information which may be reasonably required in order for the President
and Board of Trustees, or its engineers, to formulate opinions concerning the
impact that such well shall have on the water works system of the village,
which such additional information shall be specifically requested by said
President and Board of Trustees from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 31-301)
§ 155.09  CESSATION OF DRILLING; PRODUCTION.
   The village, upon the recommendation of the Village Engineer, may at any
time require any person, firm, municipality, or corporation, or other entity,
who shall be drilling a well within the zone of protection, and who shall be
required to have obtained a permit from the village, to cease drilling, or if
the well is drilled and is in production, to cease the use of said well, if in
the opinion of the Village Engineer the drilling, or further use of said well,
shall in any way injure, or diminish, or pollute, the water supply of the
village. The Village Engineer shall have the authority to enter upon the
property of the individual, firm, municipality, or corporation, or other
entity, who shall be drilling said well, in order to observe the drilling, and
perform such tests as may be necessary in order for said engineer to evaluate
the impact of any drilling or pumping on the village water supply, or to
determine whether or not there shall have been a deviation regarding the
drilling, or use of the well, from the data contained in the information
application filed with the village for issuance of the permit. Should said
information, in the opinion of the Village Engineer, be of such substantial
deviation that it could adversely impact upon the village’s consideration of
the preservation of its water supply, the Village President and Board of
Trustees may, in addition for such cause, require the individual to cease
drilling, or to cease use of an existing well.
(Prior Code, § 31-401)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.10  NUISANCE AND INJUNCTION.
   The Village Clerk shall cause to be served a notice in writing, either by
personal service or by certified mail, return receipt requested, upon any
person, individual, municipal corporation, or other entity, who has authorized
the drilling of a well, is drilling a well, or is operating and pumping a well
within the territory of a ten mile radius of the corporate limits of the
village without a permit, requiring him or her to abate the same within ten
days from the receipt of said notice, in such manner as the notice shall
direct. If the person so served and notified does not abate the said drilling,
or operation and pumping, of the well within the specified time, said action by
the person, individual, municipal corporation, or other entity shall be deemed
a nuisance subject to abatement. The Village Board, by resolution, may proceed
to abate the nuisance in any or all manner allowable by law, including, without
limiting the generality thereof, the seeking to enjoin the continuation of the
nuisance by filing a lawsuit in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 31-502)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, municipality, corporation, or other entity drilling
a well for any purpose including, but not limited to, water wells, oil wells,
and gas wells within the zone of protection without a permit from the village
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be deemed guilty of a petty
offense, for which the minimum fine is $100.
   (B)   Any person, firm, municipality, corporation, or other entity who shall
fail to supply to the village data required, under the provisions of §
155.08, shall be deemed guilty of a separate petty offense for which the fine
is a minimum of $100.
   (C)   The continued operations of drilling and/or pumping a well without a
permit issued hereunder, or the failing to supply required data, shall be
deemed a separate offense for each day’s operation, and each day the person,
firm, municipality, corporation, or other entity shall be guilty of a petty
offense, for which the minimum fine $100.
   (D)   The continuing to pump, drill, or otherwise operate a well after
notification from the village, in writing, to cease such operations shall also
be deemed guilty of a petty offense, for which the minimum fine shall be $100.
Each day of operation after such notice shall be deemed a separate offense, and
punishable by a like fine.
(Prior Code, § 31-501)  (Ord. passed 11-7-1994)
CHAPTER 156:  FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Purpose
   
156.02   Definitions
   
156.03   Base flood elevation level
Administration and Enforcement
   
156.15   Duties of the Village Clerk
   
156.16   Development permit
   
156.17   Carrying capacity and notification
   
156.18   Variances
   
156.19   Disclaimer of liability
   
156.20   Abrogation and greater restrictions
Damage Prevention
   
156.35   Preventing increased flood heights; damages
   
156.36   Protecting buildings
   
156.37   Subdivision requirements
   
156.38   Public health and other standards
   
156.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01  PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this
village by the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2,
5/11-30-8 and 5/11-31-2) in order to accomplish the following purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   Protect new buildings, and major improvements to buildings, from flood
damage;
   (C)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   Maintain property values, and a stable tax base, by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (G)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits, and enhance
community and economic development.
(Ord. 522011, passed 5-2-2011)
§ 156.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled, or exceeded,
in any given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-YEAR FLOOD. The base
flood elevation at any location is as defined in §
156.03 of this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BASEMENT. Portion of a building having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure that is principally above ground,
including manufactured homes, prefabricated buildings, and gas or liquid
storage tanks. The term also includes RECREATIONAL VEHICLES and TRAVEL TRAILERS
installed on a site for more than 180 days per year.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare
of the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these CRITICAL FACILITIES can impact the delivery of vital
services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can
put special populations at risk. Examples of CRITICAL FACILITIESwhere flood
protection should be required include:
      (1)   Emergency services facilities (such as fire and police stations);
      (2)   Schools;
      (3)   Hospitals;
      (4)   Retirement homes and senior care facilities;
      (5)   Major roads and bridges;
      (6)   Critical utility sites (telephone switching stations or electrical
transformers); and
      (7)   Hazardous material storage facilities (chemicals, petrochemicals,
hazardous or toxic substances).
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
         (a)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building;
         (b)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         (c)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site
for a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than
180 days per year;
         (d)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
culverts, or similar projects;
         (e)   Construction or erection of levees, dams walls, or fences;
         (f)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating,
paving, or other alterations of the ground surface; and
         (g)   Storage of materials, including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks, and channel modifications, or any other activity that might
change the direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include routine maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar
practices that do not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed, or buildings to be constructed,
including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads, is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed, including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads.
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial, or complete, inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. Portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. A map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that depicts the floodplain or Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones, and may or may not depict
flood ways, and show base flood elevations.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. An examination, evaluation, and determination of
flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). These two terms are
synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction of the village, the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village, or that may be annexed into the
village, that are subject to inundation by the base flood. The FLOODPLAINS of
the village are generally identified as such on panel number(s) 70 and 135 of
the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of the county, prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency and dated 6-16-2011. FLOODPLAIN also includes those
areas of known flooding, as identified by the community. The FLOODPLAINS of
those parts of unincorporated parts of the county that are within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village, or that may be annexed into the
village, are generally identified as such on the Flood Insurance Rate map
prepared for the county by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated 6-
16-2011.
   FLOOD PROOFING. Any combination of structural, or nonstructural, additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate property and their contents.
   FLOOD PROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry flood proofed to the flood protection
elevation.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The elevation of the base flood, plus one
foot of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
   FLOODWAY. Portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the base
flood. The FLOODWAYS for each of the floodplains of the village shall be
according to the best data available from federal, state, or other sources.
   FREEBOARD. An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions, and unpredictable
effects, such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
   HISTORICAL STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places, or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior, as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified, or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior, as contributing to the historic district, or a district preliminarily
determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by
the state Historic Preservation Agency; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that
has been certified by the state Historic Preservation Agency.
   IDNR/OWR. Illinois Department of Natural Resources/Office of Water
Resources.
   IDNR/OWR JURISDICTIONAL STREAM. Illinois Department of Natural Resource/
Office of Water Resources has jurisdiction over any stream serving a tributary
area of 640 acres or more in an urban area, or in the floodway of any stream
serving a tributary area of 6,400 acres or more in a rural area. Construction
on these streams requires a permit from the Department (Ill. Admin. Code tit.
17, pt. 3700.30). The Department may grant approval for specific types of
activities by issuance of a statewide permit, which meets the standards defined
in §
156.35 of this chapter.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including
basement. An unfinished, or flood-resistant enclosure usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a basement area,
is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of §
156.36 of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable, in one or more sections, that
is built on a permanent chassis, and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A parcel or contiguous parcels of
land divided into two or more lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced,
or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community, and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed, or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads), is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
   NFIP. National Flood Insurance Program.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less in size; and
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled, or permanently able to be towed, by
a light duty truck, and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling,
but as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal
use.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions, during a ten-year period, for which the cost of repairs, at
the time of each such flood event, on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SFHA. See definition of FLOODPLAIN.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.  Includes substantial improvement. The date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement, was
within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation or placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. For a substantial improvement, actual START
OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. See definition of BUILDING.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure, whereby
the cumulative percentage of damage, subsequent to the adoption of this
chapter, equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and
materials must be included in this determination. The term includes REPETITIVE
LOSS BUILDINGS (see definition).
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or improvement of a
structure taking place, subsequent to the adoption of this chapter, in which
the cumulative percentage of improvements:
         (a)   Equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure
before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   Increases the floor area by more than 20%.
      (2)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the structure. This term includes structures which have incurred
repetitive loss or substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work
done. The term does not include:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications, which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places, or the Illinois Register of Historic Places.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development, without the required federal, state, and/or local permits
and elevation certification, is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as
the documentation is provided.
(Ord. 522011, passed 5-2-2011)
§ 156.03  BASE FLOOD ELEVATION DATA.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is the base flood. The best
available base flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the
best available data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study
needed to replace the existing data with better data, and submit it to the FEMA
and IDNR/OWR for approval prior to any development of the site.
   (B)   The base flood elevation for each of the floodplains, delineated as an
“A Zone” on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of the county, shall be
according to the best data available from federal, state, or other sources.
Should no other data exist, an engineering study must be financed by the
applicant to determine base flood elevations.
   (C)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated areas of the county that are within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the village, or that may be annexed into the village, shall be
as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of
the county, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated 6-11-
2011.
(Ord. 522011, passed 5-2-2011)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 156.15  DUTIES OF THE VILLAGE CLERK.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall be responsible for the general administration
of this chapter, and ensure that all development activities within the
floodplains, under the jurisdiction of the village, meet the requirements of
this chapter.
   (B)   Specifically, the Village Clerk shall:
      (1)   Process development permits in accordance with §
156.16;
      (2)   Ensure that all development in a floodway, or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway, meets the damage prevention requirements of §
156.35;
      (3)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings,
subject to §
156.36, are met, and maintain a record of the “as-built” elevation of the
lowest floor, including basement, or flood proof certificate;
      (4)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements
of §
156.37;
      (5)   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of §
156.38;
      (6)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of §
156.18 are met, and maintain documentation of any variances granted;
      (7)   Inspect all development projects, and take any and all penalty
actions outlined in §
156.99 as are necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
      (8)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state, and federal permits;
      (9)   Notify IDNR/OWR, and any neighboring communities, prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse;
   (10)   Provide information and assistance to citizens, upon request, about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
   (11)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data, and to improve the administration of this chapter;
   (12)   Maintain for public inspection, base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter;
   (13)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter, and
make substantial damage determinations for structures within the floodplain;
and
   (14)   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps, including notifying IDNR/
OWR, and/or submitting information to FEMA, within six months whenever a
modification of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in
a change to the floodplain map.
(Ord. 522011, passed 5-2-2011)
§ 156.16  DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body, not exempted by
law, shall commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the Village Clerk. The Village Clerk shall not issue a
development permit if the proposed development does not meet the requirements
of this section.
   (B)   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale, showing property line
dimensions;
      (2)   Existing grade elevations, and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      (3)   The location and dimensions of all buildings, and additions to
buildings;
      (4)   The elevation of the lowest floor, including basement, of all
proposed buildings, subject to the requirements of §
156.36 of this chapter; and
      (5)   Cost of project, or improvements, as estimated by a licensed
engineer or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this
requirement.
   (C)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the Village
Clerk shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood elevation, and
any development located on land that can be shown, by survey elevation to be
below the base flood elevation. Any development located on land that can be
shown, by survey data, to be higher than the current base flood elevation, and
which has not been filled after the date of the site’s first Flood Insurance
Rate Map is not in the floodplain, and therefore, not subject to the
requirements of this section. In addition, any development located on land
shown to be below the base flood elevation, and hydraulically connected to a
flood source, but not identified as floodplain on the current Flood Insurance
Rate Map, is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   The Village Clerk shall maintain documentation of the existing ground
elevation at the development site, and certification that this ground elevation
existed prior to the date of the site’s first Flood Insurance Rate Map
identification.
   (E)   The Village Clerk shall be responsible for obtaining from the
applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local permits, approvals, or
permit-not-required letters that may be required for this type of activity. The
Village Clerk shall not issue a permit unless all other federal, state, and
local permits have been obtained.
(Ord. 522011, passed 5-2-2011)
§ 156.17  CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION.
   For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream
maintenance, including levees, the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse
shall be maintained. In addition, the village shall notify adjacent communities
in writing, 30 days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or
relocation, of the watercourse.
(Ord. 522011, passed 5-2-2011)
§ 156.18  VARIANCES.
   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the village for a variance.
The village shall review the applicant’s request for a variance, and shall
submit its recommendation to the village. The village may attach such
conditions to granting of a variance, as it deems necessary, to further the
intent of this section.
   (A)   No variance shall be granted, unless the applicant demonstrates that
all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain;
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety, or
creation of a nuisance;
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities;
      (6)   The applicant’s circumstances are unique, and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
      (7)   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   (B)   The village shall notify an applicant in writing that a variance from
the requirements of the building protections standards of §
156.36, that would lessen the degree of protection to a building, will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance, up to $25
per $100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks,
and that the applicant acknowledge, in writing, the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   (C)   Variances to the building protection requirements of §
156.36 of this chapter, which are requested in connection with reconstruction,
repair, or alteration of a historic site, or historic structure as defined in
HISTORICAL STRUCTURE in §
156.02, may be granted using criteria more permissive than the requirements of
§§
156.35 and
156.36 of this chapter, subject to the conditions that:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure; and
      (2)   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure.
   (D)   Any variance granted for an agricultural structure shall be decided
individually based on a case-by-case analysis of the building’s unique
circumstances. Variances granted shall meet the following conditions, as well
as those criteria and conditions set forth in this section. In order to
minimize flood damages during the 100-year flood and the threat to public
health and safety, the following conditions shall be included for any variance
issued for agricultural structures that are constructed at-grade and wet-flood
proofed:
      (1)   All agricultural structures considered for a variance from the
floodplain management regulations of this section shall demonstrate that the
varied structure is located in wide, expansive floodplain areas, and no other
alternate location outside of the special flood hazard area exists for the
agricultural structure. Residential structures, or animal confinement
facilities, such as farm houses, cannot be considered agricultural structures;
      (2)   Use of the varied structures must be limited to agricultural
purposes in Zone A, only as identified on the community’s Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM);
      (3)   For any new, or substantially damaged, agricultural structures, the
exterior and interior building components, and elements such as the foundation,
wall framing, exterior and interior finishes, flooring, and the like, below the
base flood elevation must be built with flood-resistant materials in accordance
with §
156.36 of this chapter;
      (4)   The agricultural structures must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structures, in accordance with
§
156.36 of this chapter. All of the building’s structural components must be
capable of resisting specific flood-related forces, including hydrostatic,
buoyancy, and hydrodynamic and debris impact forces. Any mechanical,
electrical, or other utility equipment must be located above the base flood
elevation, or flood proofed so that they are contained within a watertight,
flood proofed enclosure that is capable of resisting damage during flood
conditions, in accordance with §
156.36 of this chapter;
      (5)   The NFIP requires that enclosure, or foundation walls, subject to
the 100-year flood, contain openings that will permit the automatic entry, and
exit, of floodwaters, in accordance with §
156.36(B) of this chapter;
      (6)   The agricultural structures must comply with the floodplain
management floodway provisions of §
156.35 of this chapter. No variances may be issued for agricultural structures
within any designated floodway; and
      (7)   Wet-flood proofing construction techniques must be reviewed and
approved by the Floodplain Administrator, and a registered professional
engineer or architect, prior to the issuance of any floodplain development
permit for construction.
(Ord. 522011, passed 5-2-2011)
§ 156.19  DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes, and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may
occur, or flood heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes.
   (B)   This section does not imply that development, either inside or outside
of the floodplain, will be free from flooding or damage. This section does not
create liability on the part of the village, or any officer, or employee
thereof, for any flood damage that results from proper reliance on this chapter
or any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 522011, passed 5-2-2011)
§ 156.20  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the village to
fulfill the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program including: 6-
1-2011. However, this chapter does not repeal the original resolution or
ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in the program, nor does this chapter
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. Where this chapter, and other ordinance easements, covenants, or
deed restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions, shall prevail.
(Ord. 522011, passed 5-2-2011)
DAMAGE PREVENTION
§ 156.35  PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS; DAMAGES.
   Within any floodway identified on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map,
and within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no development shall be
allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated development,
will cause any increase in flood heights, or velocities, or threat to public
health and safety. The following specific development activities shall be
considered as meeting this requirement:
      (1)   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 2;
      (2)   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 3;
      (3)   Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 4;
      (4)   Minor boat docks meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide
permit number 5;
      (5)   Minor, non-obstructive activities, such as underground utility
lines, light poles, sign posts, driveways, athletic fields, patios, playground
equipment, minor storage buildings not exceeding 70 square feet, and raising
buildings on the same footprint which does not involve fill, and any other
activity meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 6;
      (6)   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the
conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 7;
      (7)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 8;
      (8)   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 9;
      (9)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 10;
   (10)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the conditions of IDNR/
OWR statewide permit number 11;
   (11)   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening meeting
the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 12;
   (12)   Temporary construction activities meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 13; and
   (13)   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely within
a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit requirements.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in division (A) above may be
permitted only if:
      (1)   Permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR, or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required; or
      (2)   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation.
(Ord. 522011, passed 5-2-2011)
§ 156.36  PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In addition to the state permit and damage prevention requirements of
§
156.35 of this chapter, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be
protected from flood damage below the flood protection elevation. This building
protection requirement applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration, or
addition to an existing building, valued at more than $1,000, or 70 square
feet;
      (2)   Substantial improvements or structural alterations, made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than 20%, or equal or
exceed the market value by 50%. Alteration shall be figured cumulatively
subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If substantially improved, the
existing structure and the addition must meet the flood protection standards of
this section;
      (3)   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If
substantially damaged, the entire structure must meet the flood protection
standards of this section within 24 months of the date the damage occurred;
      (4)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site, or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. The building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage;
      (5)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days per year; and
      (6)    Repetitive loss to an existing building as defined in §
156.02.
   (B)   Residential or non-residential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      (1)   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   The lowest floor, including basement, shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation;
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
before compaction, and should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
before sloping below the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure;
         (d)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil, and not incorporated
debris or refuse material; and
         (e)   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties, and when necessary stormwater management
techniques, such as swales or basins, shall be incorporated.
      (2)   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following:
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawlspace, or other foundation that is permanently open to flood
waters;
         (b)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment, and utility meters, shall be located
at or above the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of flood waters. Designs must either be certified by a licensed
professional engineer, or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall, no more than one foot above grade, with a minimum of two openings. The
openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base flood
elevation; and
         (d)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed, and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice, and floating debris.
            1.   All structural components below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage.
            2.   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation, provided they are waterproofed.
            3.   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access, and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space.
            4.   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply
with these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      (3)   The building may be constructed with a crawlspace located below the
flood protection elevation, provided that the following conditions are met.
         (a)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure, resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
         (b)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall, having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot above grade.
         (c)   The interior grade of the crawlspace below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior
grade.
         (d)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundations wall must not exceed four feet
at any point.
         (e)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawlspace, within a reasonable
period of time after a flood event.
         (f)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage.
         (g)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
   (C)   Non-residential buildings may be structurally dry flood proofed, in
lieu of elevation, provided a licensed professional engineer or architect
certifies that:
      (1)   Below the flood protection elevation, the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood;
      (2)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice;
      (3)   Flood proofing measures will be incorporated into the building
design and operable without human intervention, and without an outside source
of electricity; and
      (4)   Levees, berms, flood walls, and similar works are not considered
flood proofing for the purpose of this division (C).
   (D)   Manufactured homes, or travel trailers, to be permanently installed on
site shall be:
      (1)   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with division (B) above; and
      (2)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by
being tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the Illinois
Mobile Home Tie-Down Act, being 210 ILCS 120/1 et seq., and the Manufactured
Home Installation Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code § 870.
   (E)   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than 180
days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of division (D) above,
unless the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The vehicle must be either self-propelled, or able to be towed by a
light duty truck;
      (2)   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times;
      (3)   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches;
      (4)   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping,
travel, or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling;
      (5)   The vehicle’s largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
400 square feet;
      (6)   The vehicle’s wheels must remain on axles and inflated;
      (7)   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement of the floodplain;
      (8)   Propane tanks, as well as electrical and sewage connections, must
be quick-disconnect;
      (9)   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle
or park model; and
      (10)   Must either:
         (a)   Entirely be supported by jacks; or
         (b)   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground, and be supported by block in a manner that will allow the block to
be easily removed by used of the hitch jack.
   (F)   Garages, sheds, or other minor accessory structures constructed
ancillary to an existing residential use may be permitted, provided the
following conditions are met.
      (1)   The garage or shed must be non-habitable.
      (2)   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles
and tools, and cannot be modified later into another use.
      (3)   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway, or have
the appropriate state and/or federal permits.
      (4)   The garage or shed must be on a single family lot, and be accessory
to an existing principle structure on the same lot.
      (5)   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage.
      (6)   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation.
      (7)   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot above grade with one square inch of opening for
every one square foot of floor area.
      (8)   The garage or shed must be less than $15,000 in market value, or
replacement cost, whichever is greater, or less than 576 square feet (24’x24’).
      (9)   The structure shall be anchored to resist floatation and
overturning.
      (10)   All flammable or toxic materials such as gasoline, paint,
insecticides, fertilizers, and the like, shall be stored above the flood
protection elevation.
      (11)   The lowest floor elevation should be documented, and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications.
(Ord. 522011, passed 5-2-2011)
§ 156.37  SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   The village shall take into account hazards, to the extent that they are
known, in all official actions related to land management use and development.
   (A)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protections
standards of §§
156.35 and
156.36 of this chapter. Any proposal for such development shall include the
following data:
      (1)   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain, where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      (2)   The boundary of the floodway, when applicable; and
      (3)   A signed statement by a licensed professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters,
in accordance with the Plat Act (765 ILCS 205/2).
   (B)   Streets, blocks, lots, parks, and other public grounds shall be
located and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural
streams and channels. Wherever possible, the floodplains shall be included
within parks or other public grounds.
(Ord. 522011, passed 5-2-2011)
§ 156.38  PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS.
   (A)   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of §§
156.35 and
156.36 of this chapter, the following standards apply.
      (1)   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation, unless
such materials are stored in a flood proofed and anchored storage tank, and
certified by a professional engineer, or flood proofed building constructed
according to the requirements of §
156.36 of this chapter.
      (2)   Public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, and electric 
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      (3)   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems, and discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      (4)   New and replacement on-site sanitary sewer lines, or waste disposal
systems, shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them, or
contamination from them, during flooding. Manholes or other above ground
openings located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight.
      (5)   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor including basement, elevated or structurally dry
flood proofed, to the 100-year flood frequency elevation, or three feet above
the level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation, whichever is greater.
Flood proofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all critical facilities.
   (B)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
(Ord. 522011, passed 5-2-2011)
§ 156.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain, or
failure to comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance, shall be
deemed to be a violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the Village
Attorney may determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this
ordinance exists. The Village Attorney shall notify the owner in writing of
such violation.
   (B)   If such owner fails after ten days notice to correct the violation:
      (1)   The village shall make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter, or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with the chapter;
      (2)   Any person who violates this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not less than $50, or more than $750, for each offense;
      (3)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during,
or on which, a violation occurs or continues; and
      (4)   The village shall record a notice of violation on the title of the
property.
   (C)   The Village Attorney shall inform the owner that any such violation is
considered a willful act to increase flood damages, and therefore may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (D)   The Village Attorney is authorized to issue an order requiring the
suspension of the subject development. The stop-work order shall be in writing,
indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the action, if necessary,
to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop-work order. The stop-work order
constitutes a suspension of the permit.
   (E)   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or revoked
until a hearing is held by the village. Written notice of such hearing shall be
served on the permittee and shall state:
      (1)   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or
revocation; and
      (2)   The time and place of the hearing.
   (F)   At such hearing, the permittee shall be given an opportunity to
present evidence on his or her behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the
village shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended or revoked.
   (G)   Nothing herein shall prevent the village from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 522011, passed 5-2-2011)
CHAPTER 157:  ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
157.01   Purposes
   
157.02   Definitions
District and District Regulations
   
157.15   Designations of districts
   
157.16   Regulations of annexations
   
157.17   Principal uses permitted in zones
   
157.18   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
   
157.19   Lot area, yard and bulk regulations
   
157.20   Accessory buildings and uses
   
157.21   Application of district regulations
Supplementary Regulations
   
157.35   Mobile homes
   
157.36   Home occupations
   
157.37   Off-street parking and loading requirements
Nonconformance
   
157.50   Generally
   
157.51   Nonconforming lot of record
   
157.52   Nonconforming structures
   
157.53   Nonconforming use of structures
Administration
   
157.65   Administrative duties and regulations
   
157.66   Types of relief and procedures
 
   
157.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.01  PURPOSES.
   This chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To promote and protect the health, safety, comfort, morals, welfare,
convenience, and necessity of the public;
   (B)   To secure adequate light, pure air, privacy, and convenience of access
to property;
   (C)   To divide the village into zones, prescribing and regulation therein
the location, erection, reconstruction, alteration, and use of buildings,
structures, and land for residential, business,  manufacturing, and other
specified needs;
   (D)   To provide for a wide range of housing needs;
   (E)   To fix reasonable standards to which buildings and structures shall
conform and to provide that alterations or remodeling of existing buildings or
structures be conducted in accordance with current standards as set forth
herein;
   (F)   To protect the physical and mental health of the public by reducing or
abating objectionable smoke, noise, or other objectionable materials or
influences wherever possible;
   (G)   To protect against fire, explosions, noxious fumes, and other dangers;
   (H)   To avoid or lessen congestion in the public streets;
   (I)   To establish setback lines along streets and alleys and to regulate
the location of structures relative to such lines;
   (J)   To otherwise avoid or lessen the hazards to persons or damage to
property resulting from the accumulation or run-off of storm and flood water;
   (K)   To prevent the overcrowding of land and the undue concentration of
structures by regulating and limiting the use and bulk of buildings in relation
to the land surrounding them;
   (L)   To protect the character and maintain the stability of residential,
business, and industrial areas within the village;
   (M)   To prohibit uses or structures which are incompatible with the
character  of other appropriate  existing or intended development within zoning
districts;
   (N)   To provide for the gradual elimination of those existing uses of land,
buildings, and structures, and of those buildings and structures that do not
conform to the standards of the zone in which they are located;
   (O)   To conserve and enhance the taxable value of land and buildings
throughout the village;
   (P)   To promote the orderly development of the village;
   (Q)   To facilitate the more efficient use of existing utilities in the
village;
   (R)   To define and limit the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies as provided herein; and
   (S)   To effectuate the planning program.
(Ord. passed 2-5-1979; Ord. passed - -2005)
§ 157.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter and in order to carry out its provisions
and intentions, certain words, terms, and phrases shall be deemed to have the
meaning ascribed to them in this section. The word USED as applied to any land
or structure shall be construed to include ARRANGED, DESIGNED, MAINTAINED,
OCCUPIED, and INTENDED. The word BUILDING shall include the word STRUCTURE, or
PREMISES; the work LOT shall include the word PLOT or PARCEL; the word PERSON
includes a firm, association, organization, partnership, trust, company or
corporation as well as an individual. Words in the singular number include the
plural, and those in the plural number include the singular. Words used in the
present tense shall include the future. The word SHALL is mandatory. The
following words, terms, and phrases are hereby defined and shall be interpreted
as such throughout this chapter.
   ACCESSORY BUILDINGS OR USES. A building or use located on the same lot as
the main building or main use and incidental to the use of the main building or
incidental to the main use of the lot. An accessory building or structure may
be part of or separate from the main building.
   AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITY. Agricultural activity includes forests and forest
products, harvest and management, dairy farming, livestock grazing and
pasturage, truck gardening, and raising of crops, fruit, and nursery stock,
fish farms, animal kennels and fur bearing animal farms, and the harvesting,
processing, packaging, packing, shipping, and selling of products produced on
the premises, and incidental farm occupations and excluding commercial feed
lots.
   ALLEY. A public thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means of access
to abutting property.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multi-family dwelling, or where
more than one unit is established above non-residential uses, a room or suite
of rooms intended or designed for use as a residence by a single family.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. Any land, building, structure, or premises used
for the retail sale of motor vehicle fuels, oils, or accessories, or for
servicing or lubricating motor vehicles or installing or repairing parts and
accessories, but not including the repairing or replacing of motors, bodies, or
fenders of motor vehicles or painting motor vehicles.
   AVERAGE GROUND ELEVATION. The average level of the finished surface of the
ground adjacent to the exterior walls of a building or structure.
   BASEMENT. A part of a building between a floor and the ceiling above it
having at least one-half of its height above the average ground elevation. A
BASEMENT is counted as a story for the purposes of height regulations if used
for dwelling purposes.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building, other than a hotel, where for compensation and
by prearrangement for definite periods, lodging, meals or lodging and meals are
provided for no more than five persons.
   BUILDABLE AREA OF A LOT. The portion of a lot free of easements and bounded
by the building lines designating the required front, rear, and side yards.
   BUILDABLE WIDTH. The width of a lot left to be built upon after the side
yards are provided.
   BUILDING. Any structure built or maintained for the shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals,  chattels, or property of any kind.
   BUILDING LINE. A line on a lot, parallel to a lot line or street right-of-
way line at sufficient distance to provide the required yards.
   CLINIC. An establishment where patients are not lodged overnight but are
admitted for examination and treatment by a group of physicians or dentists
practicing medicine together.
   CLUB, PRIVATE. An organization catering exclusively to members and their
guests.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use allowed in a zoning district after a permit is
granted by the Village Board.
   COMMISSION. The Village Planning Commission of De Land.
   CONVENTIONAL DWELLING. A residential unit not a modular home which is
constructed at its permanent location in conformance with all applicable
building codes or, if no building codes are applicable, then in conformance
with the BOCA National Building Code.
   COUNTY. Piatt County, Illinois.
   DISTRICT. A part of the village designated on the zoning map and subject to
the regulations established in this chapter. Also known as a ZONE.
   DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT. One which accommodates the patrons’ automobiles,
from which the occupants may watch, purchase, or otherwise conduct business
from automobiles. This includes restaurants for which there are no
accommodations for eating indoors.
   DWELLING. Any building (excluding travel trailer and mobile home) which is 
exclusively designed for or occupied exclusively by one family.
   DWELLING, APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multi-family dwelling or
where more than one unit is established above non-residential uses, a room or
suite of rooms intended or designed for use as a residence by a single family.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A dwelling designed for or occupied by more than one
family.
   DWELLING UNIT. One room or a suite of rooms in a dwelling and designed for
or used by one family for living and sleeping purposes.
   FAMILY. Two or more persons related to each other by blood, marriage, or
legal adoption, living together as a single housekeeping unit; or a group of
not more than three persons, who need not be related by blood, marriage or
legal adoption, living together as a single housekeeping unit and occupying a
single dwelling unit.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building or an accessory building
which is attached to the main building, designed for the housing of automobiles
which are the property of, and for the use of, the occupants of the lot on
which the garage is located. This terms shall include, but shall not be limited
to, such structures as “carports”.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any building or premises, except those used as private
garages, used for equipping, repairing, hiring, selling or storing motor driven
vehicles.
   GRADE. The average level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to
the exterior walls of the building.
   HEIGHT OF BUILDING. The vertical distance from the grade to:
      (1)   The highest point of a flat roof;
      (2)   The deck line of a mansard roof;  or
      (3)   The average height between eaves and ridge for gable, hip, and
gambrel roofs.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation or activity which is clearly incidental and
secondary to use of the premises for dwelling purposes.
   HOTEL. A building in which lodging or lodging and board are provided and
offered to the public for compensation and which is customarily open to
transient guests.
   INSTITUTION. A nonprofit establishment for public use or public service.
   LANDSCAPED AREA. An area that is devoted and maintained to the growing of
shrubbery, grass or other plant and ornamental material.
   LOADING SPACE. Space logically and conveniently located for bulk pickups and
deliveries, scaled to delivery vehicles expected to be used, and accessible to
such vehicles when required off-street parking spaces are filled. Required off-
street LOADING SPACE is not to be included as off-street parking space in
computation of required off-street parking space.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or suitable for occupancy by a use permitted
by this chapter, including one main building or use, with accessory buildings,
the open spaces and parking spaces required by this chapter, and contiguous to
a street or upon an officially approved place.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot located at the intersection of two or more streets where
the corner interior angle formed by the intersection of the two streets is 135
degrees or less; a lot abutting upon a curved street or streets if tangents to
the curve, at the two points where the lot lines meet the curve, form an
interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot fronting on two nonintersecting streets, as
distinguished from a corner lot.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot, or double frontage lot,
fronting only one street.
   LOT, ZONING. A parcel of land, composed of one or more recorded lots,
occupied or to be occupied by a principal building or buildings or principal
use or uses along with permitted accessory buildings or uses, meeting all the
requirements for area, buildable area, width, yards, and any other requirements
set forth in this chapter.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The line dividing a lot from a street from which legal
access is available.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line opposite the front lot line. In case of a
three-sided lot, it shall mean a line within the lot, ten feet long, concentric
with and at the maximum distance from the front lot line. In case of an
irregular sided lot, it shall mean one or more lines opposite the front lot
line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line.
   LOT LINES. The property lines or other lines bounding a lot.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot designated on a subdivision plat or deed, duly recorded
pursuant to the statute in the County Recorder’s office.
   LOT WIDTH. The width of a lot at the front lot line.
   MAIN BUILDING. See PRINCIPAL BUILDING.
   MAIN USE. See PRINCIPAL USE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A broad term referring to both MOBILE HOMES and MODULAR
HOMES, as defined herein, and excluding motor homes, travel trailers, campers,
and tents.
   MOBILE HOME. All residential units which are not a CONVENTIONAL DWELLING or
a MODULAR HOME are deemed a MOBILE HOME. Any alternation of a MOBILE HOME will
not qualify it as CONVENTIONAL DWELLING or MODULAR HOME unless such alterations
enable the unit to meet all applicable building codes or, if no building codes
are applicable, then in conformance with the BOCA National Building Code.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. An area of land upon which two or more occupied mobile
homes are  harbored either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and shall
include any building, structure, vehicle or enclosure used or intended for use
as a part of the equipment of such MOBILE HOME PARK.
   MODULAR HOME. A residential unit which is a factory-built building or
building assembly or system of building sub-assemblies designed for habitation
by one or more persons, including the necessary electrical, plumbing, heating,
ventilating, and other service systems whether of a closed or open
construction, which is built in conformance with applicable building codes or,
if no building codes are applicable, then in conformance with the BOCA National
Building Code.
   MOTEL. A building designed for transient occupancy containing rooms or
suites with separate entrances, providing living, sleeping, and toilet
facilities. A general kitchen and a dining room may be provided.
   NONCONFORMANCE. A nonconformance is a nonconforming lot, structure or use
which lawfully existed before this chapter or future amendments but which is
prohibited in the district in which it exists under the terms of this chapter.
   NONCONFORMING USES. Any building or land lawfully occupied by a use, or in
the case of a building, lawfully situated at the time of the passage of this
chapter or amendments thereto, which does not conform after passage of this
chapter or amendment thereto with the regulations of this chapter.
   NURSERY SCHOOL. A school or other instructional facility for preschool
children.
   NURSING HOME. A home for the aged or infirm in which three or more persons
not of the immediate family are received, kept or provided with food and
shelter, or care for compensation; but not including hospitals, clinics, or
similar institutions devoted primarily to the diagnosis and treatment of the
sick or injured.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. A paved area, enclosed or unenclosed connected
with a street, road, or alley and permitting ingress and egress of an
automobile without the necessity of moving any other automobiles.
   PERMITTED USES. Those uses permitted by right. An applicant for a building
permit must be given a permit if he or she complies with all requirements of
this chapter.
   PREMISES. A lot together with all buildings and structures thereon.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. The main building upon a lot or the buildings which
houses the principal use of the premises. See ACCESSORY BUILDINGS or USE.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The specific primary use of the land or building.
   SPOT ZONING. The rezoning of a relatively small area into a district which
is unrelated to the immediate area or the general plan for the community. Such
rezoning may be a special privilege or an inconsistent restriction of one
property which is not made applicable to others. A zoning pattern once
established and relied upon must be sufficiently stable to accomplish the
purposes of the plan and to protect those who comply with the law.
   STORE, RETAIL. A store from which 80% of the sales are of that type of goods
which are received directly at the store by or which are delivered from the
store to the ultimate consumer. The qualifying percentage for a retail store
shall be based on total sales and sales subject to the state retailers
occupational tax.
   STORE, WHOLESALE. A store at which goods are sold for delivery on or from
the premises to a person other than the ultimate consumer. Should a store not
qualify as a retail store, it shall be deemed to be a wholesale store.
   STREET. A place or way, however designated, for vehicular travel which
affords principal means of access to abutting property.
   STREET CENTERLINE. A line halfway between the street lines.
   STREET LINE. The right-of-way line of a street.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Among
other things, STRUCTURES include buildings, walls, and signs.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change except those required by law or
ordinance, which would prolong the life of the supporting members of a building
or structure, such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders, not including
openings in bearding walls as permitted by other ordinances.
   TOURIST HOME. A building originally designed for or occupied by a family or
families in which there is provided lodging for transient guest.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which land, or any structure thereon, is
designed, arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained.
   USE VARIATION. A variation that would allow a use of property that would
otherwise be prohibited in the district in which it is located.
   VARIATION. A relaxation of the strict terms of the zoning ordinance in order
to provide relief for a property owner (or occupant) upon whom the zoning
ordinance has imposed undue hardship or difficulty. Usually variation
applications request relief from required lot sizes and widths, setbacks, and
minimum yards. VARIATIONS should be granted only to provide relief in unusual
situations which were not intended or foreseen when the comprehensive zoning
ordinance was adopted. No VARIATION should be granted unless it will be in
harmony with the general intent and purpose of the ordinance.
   VILLAGE. The village of De Land, Illinois.
   YARD. An open space between a lot line and a building line in which no
structure may be located except as provided in §
157.19 of this chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of a lot between the side lot
lines.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the rear of a lot between the side lot
lines.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the main building and the side lot line and
extending from the front yard line to the rear yard line.
   ZONE. An area of the village designated on the zoning map and subject to the
regulations established in this chapter. Also called a DISTRICT.
   ZONING LOT. See LOT, ZONING.
(Ord. passed 2-5-1979; Ord. 00-1, passed 4-3-2000; Ord. passed - -2005)
DISTRICT AND DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 157.15  DESIGNATION OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The intent of this section is to create a series of districts or zones
of such number and character as are necessary to achieve compatibility of uses
within each district, to implement the comprehensive plan of the village and to
complement the official zoning map of the village.
   (B)   For the purposes of this chapter, the land within the boundaries of
the village is hereby divided into the following districts.
      (1)   Rural (RU). The Rural District is established as a district in
which agricultural activity is encouraged as the principal use of land. The
specific intent of the rural zone is to facilitate the long term use of lands
best suited to agricultural production by preventing a mixture of urban and
rural uses which often create incompatibilities and conflict with agricultural
pursuits, which place unbalanced tax loads on agricultural lands and which
encourage the premature termination of agricultural pursuits.
      (2)   Conservation (RC). The Conservation District is established to
prevent the construction upon or alteration of rural or natural environments
which have natural conditions of soil, slope, susceptibility to flooding or
erosion, vegetation or an interaction between the aforesaid, which make such
lands unsuitable for urban development. Further, this district is established
to protect areas of the environment that, if altered, would cause health or
pollution problems and environmental deterioration. The Conservation District
will also insure adequate areas for future conservation and recreational
pursuits.
      (3)   Suburban Residential (RS). The Suburban Residential district is
established to provide a low density area in which the principal use of land is
for single-family, together with the appropriate religious, educational and
recreational facilities as the basis elements of a balanced neighborhood.
      (4)   Urban Residential (RD). The Urban Residential district is
established to provide a variety of housing types related to the size and
character of the development site or lot. In older neighborhoods, this zone
allows the transition of large houses from owner to rental occupied; moreover,
economical construction is allowed in such neighborhoods. In Urban Residential
(RD) appropriate religious, educational and recreational facilities create a
balanced neighborhood.
      (5)   Business (B). The Business District designated as B is established
to provide areas for offices and retail, wholesale, and commercial
establishments which offer a wide range of goods and services.
      (6)   General Industrial. This Industrial District is established to
provide areas in which manufacturing and related commercial and administrative
operations are the principal use of the land. Areas for industrial development
should be free from incompatible commercial uses, dwellings, and institutions
for human care.
(Ord. passed 2-5-1979; Ord. passed - -2005)
§ 157.16  REGULATIONS OF ANNEXATIONS.
   All land annexed to the village shall be zoned urban residential, unless the
Planning Commission shall recommend the Village Board decide that the
classification shall be otherwise.
(Ord. passed 2-5-1979; Ord. 88, passed 2-1-1988; Ord. passed - -2005)
§ 157.17  PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED IN ZONES
   (A)   Definitions. A PRINCIPAL USE is the specific primary use of land or
buildings, as opposed to ACCESSORY USE, a subordinate use which is incidental
to and customary in connection with the principal building or principal use and
which is located on the same lot with such principal building or principal use.
   (B)   General application. The table in division (D) of this section lists
principal uses which may be permitted in the districts by right (designated by
X) and conditional uses (designated by C) which may be permitted only after a
hearing by the Planning Commission and a favorable vote by the Village Board.
The table does not apply to home occupations (see §
157.36 of this chapter).
   (C)   Conditional uses. A conditional use permit is hereby required for any
and all changes or alterations to the structure, visual appearance, or use of
any building, structure, lot, monument, or thing that has been declared an
historic preservation site by the Village Board.
   (D)   Table of uses.
 
Principal Uses Permitted in Zones
RC RS RU B I-1 Principal Use
RC RS RU B I-1 Principal Use
         C X   Agricultural implement sales
C              Agricultural activity
               Animal husbandry
               Apartments (See Dwelling)
         X X   Appliance repair
         C X   Auction house
         X X   Automobile sales
         C X   Automobile service station
               Automobile and machinery wrecking or parts, storage and sale of
               same
C        X X   Bait shop
         X X   Bakery with sale of bakery products on the premises
         X     Barber shop
         X     Beauty shop
      C  C     Boarding house
         X X   Bowling alley
         C     Bus terminal
         X X   Car wash
C              Cemetery
   X  X  X X   Church
      C  X     Clinic
         X X   Club, private
         X C   Commercial establishment not otherwise designated
C  C  C    X   Country club
X  X  X    X   Crop production
         X X   Dry cleaning establishment
   X  X  C C   Dwelling, single-family
   X           Dwelling, multi-family
      C  C     Funeral home
         X X   Garage, public
               Gasoline service station (see automobile service station)
C  C  C  C     Golf course
C        C C   Golf course, driving range
         X X   Golf course, miniature
         X X   Grain elevator
         X X   Greenhouse, commercial
         X X   Grocery store
         X X   Heating and air conditioning
               Establishments
                
      C  C     Hospital
         X     Hotel
           X   Industry (all industrial uses)
         X X   Laundromat
      X  X     Library
         X X   Lodge
         X X   Lumberyard
           X   Manufacturing (all manufacturing uses)
      C        Mobile home park
         X     Motel
         X X   Night club
      X  X     Nursery, children
         X X   Nursery, commercial
      C  C     Nursing home
      C  X X   Office, professional
X  X  X  X X   Park, public
         X X   Plumbing, heating, and/or electrical contractor shop
         X X   Printing office
C  C  C  X X   Public building erected by or for any governmental agency
         X X   Radio and television towers
         X X   Repair (excluding cars and heavy equipment)
               Resort
         X X   Restaurant, indoor service only
         X X   Restaurant, drive-in
         X X   Retail store (excluding retail store in which slaughtering of
               animals is permitted on premises)
C              Retreat, religious
         X X   Skating rink
         X X   Tavern
         C C   Theater, drive-in
         X     Theater, auditorium
      C  X     Tourist home
           X   Truck terminal
         C     Veterinary hospital
         X X   Warehouse
         X X   Wholesale stores
 
X = Permitted by right
C = Permitted with conditional use permit
 
(Ord. passed 2-5-1979; Ord. 83-1, passed 5-2-1983; Ord. 88-2, passed 2-1-1988;
Ord. passed - - 2005)
§ 157.18  RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the
official zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
   (A)   Boundaries shown as following or approximately following the village
limits shall be construed as following such limits;
   (B)   Boundaries shown as following or approximately following streets,
highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow the center lines of such
streets, highways, or alleys;
   (C)   Boundary lines which follow or approximately follow platted lot lines
or other property lines as shown on the county tax maps shall be construed as
following such lines;
   (D)   Boundaries shown as following or approximately following section
lines, half-section lines or quarter-section lines, shall be construed as
following such lines;
   (E)   Boundaries shown as following or approximately following railroad
lines shall be construed to lie midway between the main tracts of such railroad
lines;
   (F)   Boundaries shown as following or approximately following the center
lines of streams, rivers, or other continuously flowing water courses shall be
construed as following the channel center line of such water courses taken at
mean low water, and in the event of a natural change in the location of such
streams, rivers, or water courses, the zone boundary shall be construed as
moving with the channel center line;
   (G)   Boundaries shown as separated from, and parallel or approximately
parallel to, any of the features listed above shall be construed to be parallel
to such feature and at such distance therefrom as is shown on the map.
Distances not specifically indicated on the map shall be determined by the
scale of the map;
   (H)   Where a district boundary line divided a lot which was in single
ownership at the time of passage of this chapter, the Building Official may
permit the extension of the regulations for either portion of the lot not to
exceed 50 feet beyond the district boundary line into the remaining portion of
the lot; and
   (I)   Whenever any street, alley, or other public way is vacated, the zoning
district adjoining each side of each street, alley or public way shall be
automatically extended to the center of the vacated area; and all areas
included in the vacation shall then and henceforth be subject to all
appropriate regulations of the extended districts.
(Ord. passed 2-5-1979; Ord. passed - -2005)
§ 157.19  LOT AREA, YARD AND BULK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General provisions. In any district in which single-family dwellings
are permitted, a single-family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may
be erected on any single nonconforming lot of record  (see §
157.51 of this chapter). Bulk refers to the height and lot coverage for
structures in specific districts. The table in division (G) lists the lot area,
yard, and bulk regulations for the designated districts.
   (B)   Front yards.
      (1)   Generally. Where 30% or more of a block front is improved with
buildings, then no part of any building shall project beyond a line joining the
two adjacent corners of the building on either side thereof, or where there is
a building on only one side, beyond a line projected from the corresponding
adjacent corner of the building except that no building shall be required to
provide a front yard greater than 50 feet in any event.
      (2)   Divided block front. Where a block front is divided among districts
with different front yard requirements, the deepest front yard required shall
apply to the entire block front.
      (3)   Corner lot. On corner lots there must be a front yard on both
streets. However on corner lots that are lots of record, the buildable width
cannot be reduced to less than 28 feet except that there shall be a yard along
the side street of such a lot of at least five feet.
      (4)   Double frontage lots. On double frontage lots, such as, lots
fronting on two nonintersecting streets, a front yard must be provided on both
streets.
      (5)   Landscaping. Front yards shall be devoted entirely to landscaped
areas and the necessary paving of driveways and sidewalks to reach parking or
loading areas in the side or rear yards.
      (6)   Other restrictions. See division (E) of this section for other
restrictions.
   (C)   Rear yards.
      (1)   A detached accessory building located more than ten feet from the
main building shall be built within the side yard required for the main
building and shall be located at least five feet from the rear lot line.
      (2)   A detached accessory building located ten feet or closer from the
main building or an attached accessory building shall be platted with the side
and rear yards required for the main building.
      (3)   Swimming pools and home barbecue grills may occupy a rear yard
provided that they are not located closer than five feet to the rear lot lines
or closer than five feet to a side lot line on interior lots.
      (4)   See division (E) of this section for other restrictions.
   (D)   Side yards.
      (1)   Size requirements. Required side yards shall be maintained on each
side of the dwelling but such side yard may be decreased to 10% of the lot
width on lots of less than 70 feet in width, provided, however, that no
required side yard shall be less than five feet.
      (2)   Exceptions. No side yard shall be required where dwellings are
erected above commercial structures, except such side yards as may be required
for a commercial dwelling in the district in which it is located. If a variance
or a conditional use permit has been issued, the side yards stipulated therein
shall be required.
      (3)   Corner lots. On corner lots there must be a front yard on both
streets. However, on corner lots that are lots of record, the buildable width
cannot be reduced to less than 28 feet except that there shall be a yard along
the side street of such a lot of at least five feet. On a corner lot, any lot
line or yard not considered a front lot line or yard shall be a side lot line
or side yard.
      (4)   Two-family or multi-family dwellings. For purposes of the side yard
regulations, a two-family dwelling unit or multi-family dwelling unit  shall
be  considered one building occupying one lot.
      (5)   Three-story multi-family buildings. For three-story multi-family
buildings, eight-foot side yards are required.
      (6)   Semi-public buildings. Schools, libraries, churches, public and
other semi-public buildings in residential districts. The minimum width of side
yards for schools, libraries, churches, community buildings, and other public
and semi-public buildings in RU, RS, RC, and RD districts shall be 25 feet,
except where a side yard is adjacent to a commercial or industrial district in
which case the width of the yard required in the adjoining district shall be
required for that yard.
      (7)   Accessory buildings. An accessory building shall be provided with
yard required for the main building.
      (8)   Recreational restrictions. Swimming pools and home barbecue grills
may occupy a rear yard provided that they are not located closer than five feet
to the rear lot lines or closer than five feet to a side lot line on interior
lots.
      (9)   Other restrictions. See division (E) of this section for other
restrictions.
   (E)   All yards.
      (1)   Sills, window air-conditioning units, chimneys, roofs, cornices,
and ornamental features may project into a required yard a distance not to
exceed 24 inches.
      (2)   Open fire escapes and fireproof outside stairways and ordinary
projections of chimneys and flues into a required yard for a distance of not
more than three and one-half feet may be permitted when so placed as to not
obstruct light and ventilation.
      (3)   Those parts of existing buildings that violate yard requirements
may be repaired and remodeled in accordance with §
157.52 of this section, but not reconstructed or structurally altered in such a
way as to increase their nonconformity.
      (4)   Filling station pumps and pump islands may occupy required yards
provided, however, that they are not less than 15 feet from all lot lines.
      (5)   In the B and I-1 Districts there may be more than one building on a
lot provided that the required yards be maintain around the group of buildings.
      (6)   There may be two or more related multi-family hotel, motel or
institutional buildings on a lot provided that:
            (a)   The required yards be maintained around the group of
buildings; and
            (b)   Buildings that are parallel be separated by a horizontal
distance that is at least equal to the height of the highest of the parallel
buildings.
   (F)   Height regulations.
      (1)   Maximum height limits established for buildings and structures are
as follows:
            (a)   Thirty-five feet in the RU, RC and RS Districts; and
            (b)   Forty-five feet in the RD, B, and I-1 Districts.
      (2)   The above height limits may be exceeded in the following instances:
            (a)   Public, semi-public or public service buildings, hospitals,
institutions, agricultural buildings, or schools when permitted in a district,
may be erected to a height not exceeding 110 feet, and churches may be erected
to a height not exceeding 75 feet if the building is set back from each yard
line at least one foot for each foot of additional building height above the
height limit otherwise permitted in the district in which the building is
built; and
            (b)   Television and radio towers, church spires, belfries,
monuments, tanks, water and fire towers, stage towers or scenery lofts, cooling
towers, ornamental towers and spires, chimneys, elevator bulkheads, stacks,
conveyors and flag poles may be erected to such height as may be authorized by
the Village Board.
   (G)   Table of lot area, yard and bulk regulations.
   Lot Area, Yard and Bulk Regulations
   Area            Yard                         Bulk
         Minimum Lot  Minimum Lot                            Maxi- mum
         Size         Size         Feet            Yard Abut Lot Cover Height
                      Residential
District Area   Width Square Min.  Front Side Rear
                      Feet   Feet
RU       1 acre 150   1 acre N/A   50    25   30   30        20%       35
RC       1 acre 150   N/A    N/A   50    25   50   20        10%       35
RS       18,500 100   18,500 N/A   30    10   20   N/A       30%       35
RD       8,000  65    9,000  6,000 30    6    10   N/A       60%       45
B        7,000  65    6,500  4,000 None  None None 15        100%      45
I-1      None   None  N/A    N/A   35    15   None 25        50%       45
 
(Ord. passed 2-5-1979; Ord. passed - -2005)  Penalty, see §
157.99
§ 157.20  ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND USES.
   (A)   Definitions. An accessory building is a building located on the same
lot as the main building. An accessory building or structure may be a part of
the main building or detached from the main building. An accessory use is a use
located on the same lot as the main use and incidental to the main use of the
lot.
   (B)   Uses. The uses permitted in the various zoning districts are principal
uses, and a building or use that is accessory to a permitted use is allowable
in connection with such a use, provided it shall meet the requirements of this
section.
   (C)   General regulations for accessory buildings and uses.
      (1)   An accessory building or use must be compatible in character and
extent with the principal use and district where located.
      (2)   No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot until the
construction of the main building has commenced, and no accessory building
shall be used unless the main building on the lot is also being used. However,
nothing shall prevent the use of a temporary construction shed for the storage
of tools, material and equipment by a contractor during building construction.
      (3)   No accessory building may be erected in front of a main building
unless the accessory building is attached to the main building by a common
wall. Such an accessory building shall be provided the required front yard in
accordance with §
157.19(B) of this chapter.
      (4)   Accessory buildings may not be used for dwelling purposes.
      (5)   All accessory uses and accessory buildings must conform with such
other regulations as apply.
   (D)   District specifications. Accessory buildings and uses are permitted
when in accordance with the following:
      (1)   In the RU, RC, RS and RD Districts, accessory buildings and uses
are limited to:
            (a)   A noncommercial greenhouse that does not exceed in floor area
25% of the ground area of the main building;
            (b)   A private residential garage constructed for the housing of
noncommercial passenger automobiles;
            (c)   For restrictions on home occupations, §
157.36 of this chapter;
            (d)   Vegetable or flower gardens;
            (e)   Tennis court, swimming pool, garden house, barbecue oven,
fireplace, and similar uses customarily accessory to residential uses; and
            (f)   Parking areas conforming with requirements of §
157.37 of this chapter.
      (2)   In the business (B) and industrial districts, parking lots and
garages are permitted in conformance with the requirements of §
157.37 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-5-1979; Ord. passed - -2005)  Penalty, see §
157.99
§ 157.21  APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No building, structure, or land shall hereafter be used or occupied,
and no building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in conformity
with all of the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is
located.
   (B)   The density and yard regulations of this chapter are minimum
regulations for each and every building existing at the effective date of this
chapter and for any building hereafter erected or structurally altered.
   (C)   No part of a yard or other open space, or off-street parking or
loading space required about or in connection with any building for the purpose
of complying with this chapter, shall be included as part of a yard, open
space, or off-street parking or loading space similarly required for any other
building.
   (D)   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be
located on a lot as herein defined and in no case shall there be more than one
main building on a lot except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (E)   No building shall be erected or structurally altered to the extent
specifically provided hereinafter except in conformity with the off-street
parking and loading regulations of this chapter.
   (F)   Uses enumerated in this chapter are not cumulative.
   (G)   Whenever a provision of this chapter or any other provisions of law,
whether set forth in this chapter or established by any other ordinance,
regulations or statute, imposes overlapping or contradictory regulations or
contains any restrictions covering any of the same subject matter, the
provision which is more restrictive or which imposes a higher standard or
requirements shall control.
   (H)   In the interpretation and application of this chapter the provisions
shall be held to be minimum requirements for the promotion and protection of
the public health, safety, morals, comfort and welfare.
   (I)   This chapter is not intended to abrogate, annul or otherwise interfere
with any easement, covenant or other private agreement or legal relationship.
If the regulations of this chapter are more restrictive or impose higher
standards or requirements than any such easement, covenant, or other private
agreement or legal relationship, the regulations of this chapter shall control.
   (J)   The zoning map attached to the zoning ordinance and marked as “Exhibit
A”, which is incorporated and expressly referred to herein, and the area
designations indicated thereon are hereby declared to be the official zoning
map of the village, and from this date forward, said area designations shall be
controlling and determinative of the uses permitted on the real estate outlined
upon said map according to the limitations application to each classification
under this zoning ordinance. No use other than those permitted by this zoning
ordinance shall be allowed, caused or permitted by any person, owner, occupant
or tenant on any of said premises contained with the village.
(Ord. passed 2-5-1979; Ord. 83-1, passed 5-2-1983; Ord. 88-2, passed 2-1-1988;
Ord. 96-5, passed 8-5- 1996; Ord. 99-, passed 7-10-1999; Ord. passed - -2005)
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
§ 157.35  MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   Residential occupancy of mobile homes is permitted only in mobile home
parks licensed by the state.
   (B)   Mobile homes, as defined herein, which are located outside of mobile
home parks as of the date of enactment of this amendment shall be considered to
be legally nonconforming uses and shall be permitted to remain in their
locations.
   (C)   All mobile homes must use village water facilities.
   (D)   All mobile homes must meet state regulations for sewage disposal.
   (E)   All mobile homes must be underpinned and tied down on a permanent
foundation with front wheels removed.
(Ord. passed 2-5-1979; Ord 00-1, passed 4-3-2000; Ord. passed - -2005) 
Penalty, see §
157.99
§ 157.36  HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   A home occupation is any occupation or activity which is clearly
incidental and secondary to use of the premises for dwelling purposes.
   (B)   A home occupation shall not employ more than one person who is not a
member of the family residing on the premise.
   (C)   No home occupation shall intrude upon the residential character of the
neighborhood in which it is located. An identification sign shall not be
greater than 16 inches by 24 inches and shall be attached to the building.
There shall be no other display that will indicate from the exterior that the
building is being utilized in whole or in part for any purpose other than that
of a dwelling. No activities or mechanical equipment shall be permitted which
creates offensive noise,  vibrations,  heat,  glare,  odors,  smoke or dust.
   (D)   When within the above requirements, a home occupation includes, but is
not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Art studio;
      (2)   Dressmaking;
      (3)   Professional office of a physician, dentist, lawyer, engineer,
architect, accountant, salesman, real estate agent, insurance agent, or other
similar occupation;
      (4)   Teaching, with musical instruction limited to not more than two
pupils at a time, and between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.;
      (5)   One barber or beauty chair;
      (6)   Repair shop for shoes, watches, bicycles, and similar items; and
      (7)   Day care home for no more than eight children, including the
occupant’s natural or adopted children under age 18 and those who are in the
home under full-time care.
(Ord. passed 2-5-1979; Ord. passed - -2005)  Penalty, see §
157.99
§ 157.37  OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   Public necessity and business success demand that off-street parking and,
where applicable, loading spaces be required of all new uses and expansions of
existing uses whether residential or nonresidential.
   (A)   Off-street parking requirements for residential uses. Off-street
parking spaces shall be provided as follows:
      (1)   Single-family dwelling - two spaces for each dwelling unit; and
      (2)   Multi-family dwelling - 12 spaces for each dwelling unit.
   (B)   Off-street parking requirements for nonresidential uses. See division
(G) of this section.
   (C)   Rules for computing parking spaces. In computing the number of
required off-street parking spaces, the following rules shall apply:
      (1)   Floor area shall mean the gross floor area of the specific use,
excluding any floor or portion thereof used for parking, as herein defined;
      (2)   Where fractional spaces result, the parking spaces required shall
be the nearest whole number;
      (3)   In the case of mixed uses, the parking spaces required shall equal
the sum of the requirements of the various uses computed separately;
      (4)   Parking spaces shall have a minimum width of nine feet; and
      (5)   See division (H) of this section for other restrictions.
   (D)   Location of required parking spaces. All parking spaces required
herein shall be located as follows:
      (1)   The parking spaces required as in division (A) above for
residential buildings or uses shall be located on the same lot with the
building or use served.
      (2)   The parking spaces required for any other building or use may be
located on an area within 300 feet of said building and two or more owners of
buildings may join together in providing the required parking spaces. Where the
required parking spaces are not located on the same lot with the building or
use served, the usage of the lot or tract upon which said parking spaces are
provided shall be restricted by an instrument of record describing the premises
for which said parking is provided and assuring the retention of such parking
so long as required by this chapter.
      (3)   No parking spaces may be located in a front yard other than on the
driveway in any RS or RD district.
   (E)   Minimum improvement and maintenance standards.
      (1)   All open parking areas provided in compliance with this chapter
shall be surfaced with a durable, dust-proof surface consisting of concrete,
bituminous concrete, or compacted gravel or crushed stone properly sealed and
surface treated. The parking areas shall be maintained in a usable dust-proof
condition and graded and drained to dispose of all surface water. Whenever
lighting is provided, it shall be so hooded or shielded as to reflect light
away from abutting or neighboring property, including public rights-of-way.
      (2)   One standard tree, at least 13 inches in diameter, shall be planted
and maintained on the lot for each ten parking spaces. The following trees
shall not be planted: American elm, Chinese elm, American plane tree, Box elder
(female), Common horsechestnut, Ginkgo (female), Poplar and Willow.
      (3)   Planting within 30 feet of entrances and exits to the parking lot
shall be limited to shrubs not greater than three feet in height when mature.
Planting within 30 feet of a street corner shall be limited to shrubs not
exceeding three feet in height when mature. All plantings shall be maintained
by the owner.
      (4)   The location of each parking space and the direction of movement
along the access driveways shall be indicated by painting upon the surface of
the lot. A structurally sound curb, or other abutment, no less than six inches
in height, shall be installed and so placed as to insure that no part of an
automobile either extends or is capable of accidentally rolling across the
property line of the parking lot.
      (5)   All nonconforming parking spaces, with the exception of those
required for single-family and multi-family units shall be surfaced with
concrete or bituminous concrete or compacted gravel or crushed stone properly
sealed or surface treated within five years of the date of passage of this
chapter.
   (F)   Off-street loading requirements.
      (1)   General. There shall be provided at the time any building is
erected off-street loading space in accordance with the requirements of this
section.
      (2)   Office buildings, apartments, hotels and motels. One space for each
5,000 to 50,000 square feet of gross floor area; two spaces for each 50,000 to
200,000 square feet of gross floor area; and one additional space for each
75,000 square feet of gross floor area above 200,000 square feet.
      (3)   Retail or service establishment of wholesale commercial use. One
space for each 2,000 to 20,000 square feet of gross floor area; two spaces for
each 20,000 to 100,000 square feet of gross floor area; and one additional
space for each 75,000 square feet of gross floor area above 100,000 square
feet.
      (4)   Manufacturing or industrial use. One space for each 10,000 square
feet of floor space or fraction thereof in excess of 5,000 square feet.
      (5)   Vehicles. Tractor-trailer units and other loading vehicles shall
not be permitted to obstruct the normal traffic flow of public streets. Off-
street apron space shall provide room for vehicular maneuverability for each
required off-street loading space.
      (6)   Apron space. The following apron space is required for one maneuver
into or out of a loading space vehicle or other possible obstruction in the
area of maneuver. See the table in division (I) of this section.
   (G)   Minimum off-street parking requirements for nonresidential uses.
 
One Parking Space
                       For           For each
  For    For    For    each   For    1000     For
  each   each   each   200    each   square   each
  50     100    180    square 500    feet of  3000   For each  For each   For
 square square square feet   square floor    square five      six seats  each
  feet   feet   feet   of     feet   space.   feet   employees of         guest
  of     of     of     floor  of     plus one of               auditorium room
  floor  floor  floor  space  floor  for each floor
  space  space  space  over   space  employee space
                       2000
                                  For           For each
             For    For    For    each   For    1000     For
             each   each   each   200    each   square   each
             50     100    180    square 500    feet of  3000   For each  For each   For
            square square square feet   square floor    square five      six seats  each
             feet   feet   feet   of     feet   space.   feet   employees of         guest
             of     of     of     floor  of     plus one of               auditorium room
             floor  floor  floor  space  floor  for each floor
             space  space  space  over   space  employee space
                                  2000
Amusement                                                                 X
centers
Appliance                                X
stores
Banks                                    X
             Five   Five   Five   Five   Five   Five     Five   Five      Five       Five
Bowling      spaces spaces spaces spaces spaces spaces   spaces spaces    spaces per space
alleys       per    per    per    per    per    per lane per    per lane  lane       s per
             lane   lane   lane   lane   lane            lane                        lane
Churches                                                                  X
Commercial
establish-                               X
ments
Dental                     X
offices
Department                        X
stores
Funeral      X
parlors
Hospitals                                       X
Hotels,                                                                              X
Motels
Industrials                                                     X
Medical             X
offices
Night clubs         X
                                  For           For each
             For    For    For    each   For    1000     For
             each   each   each   200    each   square   each
             50     100    180    square 500    feet of  3000   For each  For each   For
            square square square feet   square floor    square five      six seats  each
             feet   feet   feet   of     feet   space.   feet   employees of audito- guest
             of     of     of     floor  of     plus one of               rium       room
             floor  floor  floor  space  floor  for each floor
             space  space  space  over   space  employ-  space
                                  2000          ee
Offices,                                                        X
general
Offices,                   X
professional
Restaurants         X
Retail                            X
stores
Schools                                         X
Service
organizatio-                      X             X
ns
Theaters                                                                  X
Warehouses                                               X
Wholesalers                                              X
 
   (H)   Parking lot dimensions tables.
Angle of Park Stall Width Curb Length per Car Stall Depth Driveway Width
Angle of Park Stall Width Curb Length per Car Stall Depth Driveway Width
0 degrees     9'0"        23'0"               9'0"        12'0"
0 degrees     9'6"        23'0"               9'6"        12'0"
0 degrees     10'0"       23'0"               10'0"       12'0"
20 degrees    9'0"        26'4"               15'0"       11'0"
20 degrees    9'6"        27'10"              15'6"       11'0"
20 degrees    10'0"       29'3"               15'11"      11'0"
30 degrees    9'0"        18'0"               17'4"       11'0"
30 degrees    9'6"        19'0"               17'10"      11'0"
30 degrees    10'0"       20'0"               18'3"       11'0"
40 degrees    9'0"        14'0"               19'2"       12'0"
40 degrees    9'6"        14'10"              19'6"       12'0"
40 degrees    10'0"       15'3"               19'11"      12'0"
45 degrees    9'0"        12'9"               19'10"      13'0"
45 degrees    9'6"        13'5"               20'2"       13'0"
45 degrees    10'0"       14'2"               20'6"       13'0"
50 degrees    9'0"        11'9"               20'5"       12'0"
50 degrees    9'6"        12'5"               20'9"       12'0"
50 degrees    10'0"       13'2"               21'0"       12'0"
60 degrees    9'0"        10'5"               21'0"       18'0"
60 degrees    9'6"        11'0"               21'3"       18'0"
60 degrees    10'0"       11'6"               21'6"       18'0"
70 degrees    9'0"        9'8"                21'0"       19'0"
70 degrees    9'6"        1'2"                21'3"       18'6"
70 degrees    10'0"       10'8"               21'3"       28'0"
80 degrees    9'0"        9'0"                20'4"       24'0"
80 degrees    9'6"        9'8"                20'5"       24'0"
80 degrees    10'0"       10'3"               20'6"       24'0"
90 degrees    9'0"        9'0"                19'0"       24'0"
90 degrees    9'6"        9'6"                19'0"       24'0"
90 degrees    10'0"       10‘0"             19'0"       24'0"
 
   (I)   Apron space required for one maneuver into or out of position.
 
Length of Tractor-Trailer Width of Position Apron Space
35'                       10'               46'
35'                       12'               43'
35'                       14'               39'
40'                       10'               48'
40'                       12'               44'
40'                       14'               42'
45'                       10'               57'
45'                       12'               49'
45'                       14'               48'
55'                       10'               70'
55'                       12'               65'
55'                       14'               59'
60'                       10'               74'
60'                       12'               69'
60'                       14'               64'
65'                       10'               78'
65'                       12'               73'
65'                       14'               68'
 
(Ord. passed 2-5-1979; Ord. passed - -2005)  Penalty, see §
157.99
NONCONFORMANCE
§ 157.50  GENERALLY.
   (A)   There are three types of nonconformance:
      (1)   Nonconforming lots;
      (2)   Nonconforming structures; and
      (3)   Nonconforming uses.
   (B)   A nonconformance is a nonconforming lot, structure, or use which
lawfully existed before this chapter or future amendments but which is
prohibited in the district in which it exists under the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-5-1979; Ord. passed - -2005)
§ 157.51  NONCONFORMING LOT OF RECORD.
   (A)   Definition. A NONCONFORMING LOT OF RECORD is a lot which fails to meet
the requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally applicable in
the district in which the lot is located; yard dimensions and requirements
other than those applying to area or width or both of the lot shall conform to
the regulations for the district in which such lot is located.
   (B)   Single-family districts. In any district in which single-family
dwellings are permitted, a single-family dwelling and customary accessory
buildings may be erected on any single lot of record at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this chapter, notwithstanding limitations imposed by
other provisions of this chapter. However, if two or more lots with continuous
frontage in single ownership are of record at the time of passage or amendment
of this chapter, and if the lots do not meet the requirements established for
lot width and area, the lands involved shall be considered to be an undivided
parcel for purposes of this chapter, and no portion of said lands shall be used
or sold in a manner which diminishes compliance with lot width and area
requirements established by this chapter, nor shall any division of any parcel
be made which creates a lot with width or area below the requirements stated in
this chapter.
   (C)   Structure located on a nonconforming lot. A structure located on a
nonconforming recorded lot is not classified as a nonconforming structure
solely because of insufficient lot area or width.
(Ord. passed 2-5-1979; Ord. passed - -2005)
§ 157.52  NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Definition. A NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE is one which was legally
constructed prior to the effective date of this chapter or subsequent amendment
thereto, which would not be permitted as a new structure under the terms of
this chapter because such structure is not in conformance with the yards,
height, coverage or other requirements of the district in which it is located.
A structure located on a nonconforming recorded lot is not classified as a
nonconforming structure solely because of insufficient lot area or width, nor
shall anything herein be construed to affect those structures previously
covered in §
157.51 of this section.
   (B)   Destruction of nonconforming structures. Should a nonconforming
structure or nonconforming portion of structure be destroyed by any means to an
extent of more than 50% of its fair market value at time of destruction, it
shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter. Damage to an extent less than that described above shall be repaired
in a manner as nearly conforming as possible.
   (C)   Moving nonconforming structures. Should a nonconforming structure be
moved for any reason for any distance whatever, it shall thereafter conform to
the regulations for the district in which it is located after it is moved.
(Ord. passed 2-5-1979; Ord. passed - -2005)
§ 157.53  NONCONFORMING USE OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The lawful use of buildings existing at the time of adoption of this
chapter or of a change in the district classification may be continued even
though such use does not conform with the provisions thereof.
   (B)   If no structural alterations are made, a nonconforming use of a
building may be changed to another nonconforming use of the same or more
restricted classification, but whenever a nonconforming use is changed to a
more restricted use of to a conforming use, it shall not thereafter be changed
to a less restricted use.
      (1)   Extension. The nonconforming use of a building may be extended
throughout those parts thereof which were manifestly arranged or designed
therefore prior to adoption of this chapter.
      (2)   Restoration. No building which has been damaged by fire, explosion,
act of God or the public enemy to the extent of more than 50% of its
reproduction value shall be restored except in conformity with the district
regulations.
      (3)   Discontinuance of nonconforming use. In the event that the
nonconforming use of a building or premises in a district is discontinued for a
period of two years or more, such building or premises shall thereafter be used
only in conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
(Ord. passed 2-5-1979; Ord. passed - -2005)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 157.65  ADMINISTRATIVE DUTIES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Building official.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Building Official to enforce all laws
relating to the construction, alteration, repair, removal, demolition,
equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and
structures, except as may be otherwise provided for.
      (2)   The Building Official shall receive applications required by this
chapter, issue permits and furnish the prescribed certificates. He or she shall
conduct inspections of structures or the use of land to determine whether there
is compliance with this chapter and in case of any violation, he or she shall
notify in writing the person or persons responsible, specifying the nature of
the violation and ordering corrective action.
      (3)   The Building Official shall maintain permanent and current records
required by this chapter, including but not limited to permit applications,
inspections, notices or orders issued, and all official action on appeals,
variations and amendments. All such records shall be open to public inspection
at reasonable hours, but shall not be removed from the office of the Building
Official.
      (4)   The Building Official shall maintain for distribution to the public
a supply of copies of the zoning map or maps, the compiled text of the zoning
ordinance. A fee may be charged to defray the costs of producing or reproducing
these copies.
      (5)   The Building Official shall prepare and have available in book,
pamphlet, or map form,  on or before March 31 of each year:
            (a)   The compiled text of the zoning ordinance, including all
amendments thereto through the preceding December 31; and
            (b)   A zoning map or maps, showing the zoning districts, divisions
and classifications in effect on the preceding December 31.
   (B)   Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (1)   Creation of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
            (a)   There is hereby created the Zoning Board of Appeals
consisting of seven members appointed by the President, by and with the consent
of the Board of Trustees. Upon the adoption of this chapter, the seven members
shall be appointed to serve respectively for the following terms: one for one
year, one for two years, one for three years, one for four years, one for five
years, one for six years and one for seven years, the successor of each member
so appointed to serve for a term of five years.
            (b)   One of the members so appointed shall be named as chairperson
at the time of his or her appointment. The amount of compensation to be paid to
members, if any, shall be fixed by the Board. Subject to the approval of the
Board, the President may remove any member for cause and after public hearing.
Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of the member whose place has
become vacant.
            (c)   All meetings of the Board of Appeals shall be held at the
call of the chairperson and at such other times as the Board may determine. The
chairperson, or in his or her absence the acting chairperson, may administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Board shall
be open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing
the vote of each member upon every question, or if absent or failing to vote,
indicating that fact, and shall also keep records of its examinations and other
official actions. No hearing shall be conducted without a quorum of the Board
being present, which shall consist of a majority of all the members. Any absent
member who certifies that he or she has read the transcript of the proceedings
before the Board may vote upon any question before the Board. Every rule,
regulation, every amendment or repeal thereof, and every order, requirement,
decision or determination of the Board shall immediately be filed in the office
of the Board and shall be a public record.
      (2)   Duties of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
            (a)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear appeals from and
review any order, requirement, decision or determination made by Building
Official. In hearing such appeals, the Board is authorized to recommend to the
Board interpretations of the meaning of the chapter in case of ambiguities and
to recommend rulings with respect to the application of the chapter.
            (b)   The Zoning Board of Appeals is authorized to hear petitions
for variations from the strict terms of the zoning ordinance where a genuine
and unique hardship would result if the zoning ordinance were to be strictly
applied. The Zoning Board of Appeals may recommend that the variations be
granted only in those instances in which the variation would be in harmony with
the general purpose and intent of this zoning ordinance and in accord with
general or specific rules written into this chapter.
            (c)   In no case does the Zoning Board of Appeals have the power to
make changes in the text itself or in the zoning maps. Amendments can be
adopted only by the Board after public hearing by the Committee designated by
the Board as required by state statute.
   (C)   President and Board of Trustees. The President and Board of Trustees
shall have the following duties and responsibilities with respect to the
administration and enforcement of the zoning ordinance:
      (1)   The President and Board of Trustees may grant only those
conditional use permits which are listed in the table of uses in §
157.17 of this chapter, and such permits shall be issued only in the districts
so designated.
      (2)   The President and Board of Trustees may impose such conditions or
restrictions upon the location, construction, design or operation of a
conditional use and the duration of such permit as it shall respectfully find
necessary or appropriate to insure that the standards set forth in this chapter
and subsequent amendments are met.
      (3)   No conditional use permit shall be granted by the President and
Board of Trustees unless a committee designated by the President and Board of
Trustees shall first have conducted a public hearing on the permit application
and shall have transmitted a report of its findings and recommendations to the
Board for its consideration.
      (4)   No conditional use permit shall be granted unless said permit
conforms to the standards as may be set forth in this chapter and subsequent
amendments.
      (5)   The President and Board of Trustees may grant a variation whenever
and only when all of the conditions in §
157.66(A)(4) of this chapter are met. All variations shall be granted by
ordinance. No  variation shall be granted unless the Zoning Board of Appeals
has conducted a public hearing on the application for variance in accordance
with state statute.
      (6)   In the event that the Zoning Board of Appeals recommends that a
proposed variation not be granted, then such variation may be granted by the
President and Board of Trustees only upon the favorable vote of two-thirds of
all members of the President and Board of Trustees.
      (7)   The President and Board of Trustees may from time to time amend by
ordinance the text of the zoning ordinance and the official zoning map, but no
such amendments shall be made without a hearing before a committee designated
by the President and Board of Trustees.
      (8)   The President and Board of Trustees shall review the report
submitted by said Committee concerning proposed amendments to this zoning
ordinance. In case of a written protest against any proposed amendment of the
regulations or districts, signed and acknowledged by 20% of the owners of the
frontage proposed to be altered, or by the owners of 20% of the frontage
immediately adjoining or across an alley therefrom, or by the owners of 20% of
the frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be altered, is filed
with the Village Clerk, the amendment shall not be passed except by a favorable
vote of two-thirds of all the trustees of the village.
      (9)   The President and Board of Trustees may establish a schedule of
fees, charges and expenses.
(Ord. passed 2-5-1979; Ord. passed - -2005)
§ 157.66  TYPES OF RELIEF AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Variations. A variation is a relaxation of the strict terms of the
zoning ordinance in order to provide relief for a property owner (or occupant)
upon whom this zoning ordinance has imposed undue hardship or difficulty.
Usually variation applications request relief from required lot sizes and
widths, setbacks and minimum yards. Variations should be granted only to
provide relief in unusual situations which were not intended or foreseen when
this ordinance was adopted. No variation should be granted unless it will be in
harmony with the general intent and purpose of this chapter.
      (1)   Authorization. After a public hearing before the Zoning Board of
Appeals, the President and Board of Trustees may authorize such variations from
the terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest.
Variations may be authorized only in those specific instances enumerated in
division (A)(4).
      (2)   Application for variation. An application for a variation shall be
filed with the Building Official who shall transmit the application immediately
to the chairperson of the Zoning Board of Appeals. The application shall
contain the following information:
            (a)   The particular requirements of this chapter which prevent the
proposed use or construction;
            (b)   The characteristics of the subject property which prevent
compliance with said requirements of this chapter;
            (c)   The reduction of the minimum requirements of this chapter
which would be necessary to permit the proposed use or construction; and
            (d)   The practical difficulty or particular hardship which would
result if said particular requirements of this chapter were applied to the
subject property.
      (3)   Hearing and notice.
            (a)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall select a reasonable time
and place for a hearing and give public notice of the hearing in accordance
with division (D) below. Such notice shall contain the date, time and place of
the hearing, the street address or common description of the property involved,
the legal description of the property involved, and a brief description of the
relief sought. The Zoning Board of Appeals may give such additional notice as
it may from to time, by rule provide. Any party in interest may appear and be
heard at the hearing in person, by agent or by attorney.
            (b)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall submit in writing to the
Village Clerk a summary of the testimony and findings of fact received at the
public hearing, a record of the Board’s vote, and a  statement of the Board’s
recommendations concerning the desired variation.
      (4)   Standards of variations. The Zoning Board of Appeals may recommend
to the President and Board of Trustees the granting of a variation whenever,
and only when, it shall have determined, recorded in writing, that all of the
following conditions listed below have been met. The President and Board of
Trustees shall grant a variation whenever and only when all of the conditions
below have been met. The Zoning Board of Appeals may recommend to the President
and Board of Trustees and the President and Board of Trustees may impose such
conditions and restrictions upon the location, construction, design and use of
the property benefitted by a variation as may be necessary or appropriate to
comply with the standards listed below and to protect adjacent property and
property values.
            (a)   That special circumstances or conditions such as exceptional
narrowness, topography, or siting, fully described in the report of the Zoning
Board of Appeals, apply to the land for which a variation is sought, and that
those conditions do not apply generally in the district;
            (b)   That the special circumstances or conditions have not
resulted from any act of the applicant subsequent to the adoption of this
chapter, whether or not in violation of the provisions thereof;
            (c)   That, for reasons fully set forth in the report of the Zoning
Board of Appeals, the aforesaid circumstances or conditions are such that the
strict application of the provisions of this chapter would deprive the
applicant of any reasonable use of his or her land. Mere loss in value shall
not justify a variation; there must be a deprivation of beneficial use of land;
            (d)   That the variation granted is the minimum adjustment
necessary for the reasonable use of the land; and
            (e)   That the granting of a variation is in harmony with the
general purposes and intent of this chapter, and will not be injurious to the
neighborhood, detrimental to the public welfare or in conflict with the
village.
      (5)   Decision of variations. A vote of four of the members of the Zoning
Board of Appeals shall be necessary to recommend that a variation be granted.
The recommendations of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be in writing and
shall contain its findings of fact. Variations shall be granted by the
President and Board of Trustees only by ordinance. In the event that the Zoning
Board of Appeals recommends that a proposed variation not be granted, then such
a variation may be granted by the President and Board of Trustees only upon the
favorable vote of two-thirds of all the members of the President and Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   Conditional use permit.
      (1)   Authorization. For the purposes of this chapter, the special use
permit authorized by statute shall be called the “conditional use permit.” The
location, construction, extension or structural alteration of any use for which
a conditional use permit is required pursuant to provisions of this chapter may
be authorized by a permit issued by the President and Board of Trustees and
following a public hearing by the Zoning Board of Appeals and subject to such
standards as may be set forth in this chapter and subsequent amendments.
      (2)   Application requirements. An application for a conditional use
permit shall be filed with the Building Official and shall be accompanied by
the following information and exhibits:
            (a)   A plat plan of the proposed site and of the surrounding area
within 300 feet of the site showing the location and names of all streets,
easements, and railroad or utility rights-of-way; and the location of any
parks, or other public open spaces or uses, residences or other permanent
structures;
            (b)   A drawing showing the proposed development of the site; and
            (c)   Any additional information specified in this section for the
particular use.
      (3)   Report of hearing. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall conduct
hearings upon the applications for conditional use permits specifically listed
in the district regulations of this chapter. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall
select a reasonable time and place for the hearing and shall give public notice
of the hearing in accordance with division (D) of this section. The Zoning
Board of Appeals shall transmit to the President and Board of Trustees a
written report of its findings as to the compliance of the proposed conditional
use with standards specified in this chapter or its amendments and giving its
recommendations for action to be taken by the President and Board of Trustees.
      (4)   Conditions. The Zoning Board of Appeals may recommend and the
President and Board of Trustees may impose such conditions or restrictions upon
the location, construction, design and operation of a conditional use and the
duration of such permit, as they shall respectfully find necessary or
appropriate to insure that:
            (a)   The establishment, maintenance, or operation of the
conditional use will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health,
safety, morals, comfort or general welfare;
            (b)   The conditional use will not be injurious to the use and
enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already
permitted nor substantially diminish and impair property values within the
neighborhood;
            (c)   The establishment of the conditional use will not impede the
normal and orderly development and improvement of surrounding property for uses
permitted in the district;
            (d)   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage, and/or other
necessary facilities will be provided;
            (e)   Adequate measures will be taken to provide ingress and egress
so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets; and
            (f)   The conditional use shall in all other respects conform to
the applicable regulations of the district in which it is located and the Board
shall find that there is a public necessity for the conditional use.
      (5)   Action by President and Board of Trustees. After receiving the
report of the Zoning Board of Appeals, the President and Board of Trustees
shall review the report and may accept the findings and recommendations of the
Zoning Board of Appeals in whole or in part, or may reject them in whole or in
part, or may refer the matter back to the Zoning Board of Appeals for further
study. However, in event the Zoning Board of Appeals recommends against the
issuance of a conditional use permit, then it may be issued only upon the
favorable vote of two-thirds of the members of the President and Board of
Trustees.
      (6)   Nonconformance. If any existing use requiring a conditional use
permit is located in a zone in which such a use is permitted as a conditional
use, a permit shall be issued provided it meets any standards designated in
this chapter or amendments to this chapter. Such permit shall be issued without
charge or public hearing. If such an existing use would not be eligible for a
conditional use permit, the use shall be deemed a legal nonconforming use,
subject to the provisions of §§
157.50 through
157.53 of this chapter.
   (C)   Amendments.
      (1)   The regulations imposed and the districts created under the
authority of this chapter may be amended from time to time by ordinance after
the ordinance establishing them has gone into effect, but no such amendments
shall be made without a hearing before the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (2)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall submit in writing to the Village
Clerk a summary of the testimony and findings of fact received at the public
hearing, a record of the Board’s vote and a statement of the Board’s
recommendations concerning the proposed amendment.
      (3)   Amendments are made by ordinance by the President and Board of
Trustees. The President and Board of Trustees shall review the report submitted
by the Zoning Board of Appeals. In case of a written protest against any
proposed amendment of the regulations or districts, signed and acknowledged by
owners of 20% of the frontage immediately adjoining or across an alley
therefrom, or by the owners of 20% of the frontage directly opposite the
frontage proposed to be altered, is filed with the Village Clerk, the amendment
shall not be passed except by a favorable vote of two-thirds of all members of
the President and Board of Trustees.
      (4)   The Zoning Board of Appeals and the President and Board of Trustees
shall consider the proposed amendment on its merits, using the following
criteria as a guide:
            (a)   Criteria for text or map amendment. One or more of the
following criteria shall be met for all amendments:
               1.   The proposed amendment shall correct an error in the
original zoning;
               2.   The area under application has changed so that the zoning
is no longer contributing to the community welfare;
               3.   The proposed amendment shall be consistent with the intent
of this chapter and with its various provisions; and
               4.   The proposed amendment shall not be detrimental to the
development of the village.
            (b)   Additional criteria for map amendments. In addition to the
above conditions, the following shall be met for all map changes:
               1.   Every use permitted under the new classification must be a
suitable use for the further development of the area in the vicinity of the
rezoning, and must be compatible with the uses already developed in the
vicinity; and
               2.   Adequate public facilities, sewer and water lines, other
needed services or facilities must exist or must be capable of being provided
prior to the development of the uses which would be permitted on the property
if it were classified.
            (c)   Spot zoning. Applications which would result in spot zoning
will be denied. SPOT ZONING is defined as rezoning of a relatively small area
into a district which is unrelated to the immediate area or the general plan
for the community. Such rezoning may be a special privilege or an inconsistent
restriction of one property which is not made applicable to others. A zoning
pattern once established and relied upon must be sufficiently stable to
accomplish the purposes of the plan and to protect those who comply with the
law. Spot zoning constitutes an entering wedge, contributing to the breakdown
of this stability.
   (D)   Public notice of hearings.
      (1)   In cases of requests for variations, the Zoning Board of Appeals,
and in cases of requests for conditional use permits or amendments to this
chapter, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall conduct one or more public hearings.
      (2)   Public notice of such hearing or hearings shall be published at
least once not less than 15 days nor more than 30 days before such hearing in a
newspaper published within the village. Such notice shall contain the date,
time and place of the hearing, the street address or common description of the
property involved, the legal description of the property involved and a brief
description of the purpose of the hearing.
      (3)   Not less than 30 days before such a hearing, a copy of the public
notice described above  shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to every owner of property adjacent to the property under
consideration for a variation, conditional use permit, or ordinance amendment.
(Ord. passed 2-5-1979; Ord. passed - -2005)
§ 157.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever any violation of this chapter occurs or is alleged to have
occurred, any person may file a written complaint stating fully the causes and
basis thereof and file the same with the Village Clerk. The Clerk shall record
forthwith such complaint immediately, investigate or cause any investigation
and take action thereon as provided by this chapter.
   (B)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements, including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants, variances or conditional uses shall
constitute an offense. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply
with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $10
nor more than $500. Each day of such violation shall be considered a separate
offense. The owner or tenant of any building, structure, premises or part
thereof and any architect, builder, contractor, agent or other person who
commits, participates in, assists and/or maintains such violation may each be
found guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalty herein provided.
   (C)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the village from taking such
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violations.
(Ord. passed 2-5-1979; Ord. passed - -2005)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ACCEPTANCES
      
II.   FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
TABLE I:  ACCEPTANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
09-03    8-3-2009    Acceptance of platted streets and alleyways within its
                     corporate limits.
 
TABLE II:  FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2012-02  9-4-2012    Franchise agreement for Ameren Illinois Company for gas
                     utility; expires 10-1-2032.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled State Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Cite Code Section
ILCS Cite                             Code Section
5 ILCS 70/1.01                        10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.02                        10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.03                        10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.04                        10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.05                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.07                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.08                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.09                        10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.10                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.11                        10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.12                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.15                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.16                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.17                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.20                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.24                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.28                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.29                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/2                           10.04
5 ILCS 175/1-101 et seq.              10.02
5 ILCS 179/1 et seq.                  33.40
5 ILCS 430/5-15                       31.45
5 ILCS 430/10-10 through 10-40        31.45
5 ILCS 430/50-5                       31.45
5 ILCS 430/70-5                       31.45
5 ILCS 430/70-5(a)                    31.45
5 ILCS 430/70-5(c)                    31.45
20 ILCS 2910/0.01 et seq.             131.03
35 ILCS 115                           32.16
35 ILCS 120/3                         32.02
55 ILCS 5/3-9005                      131.03
65 ILCS 5                             10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2                       10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1                       156.01
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.1                     10.99
65 ILCS 5/8-11-5                      32.15
65 ILCS 5/9-2-143                     11.02
65 ILCS 5/11-12-12                    156.01
65 ILCS 5/11-30-2                     156.01
65 ILCS 5/11-30-8                     156.01
65 ILCS 5/11-31-2                     156.01
65 ILCS 6/1-2-1                       10.99
210 ILCS 120/1 et seq.                156.36
225 ILCS 447/5-5 et seq.              131.03
230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.              112.05
230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.                 112.05
235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.                112.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.01                     112.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.02                     112.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.03                     112.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.04                     112.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.05                     112.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.17                     112.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.18                     112.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.21                     112.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.22                     112.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.23                     112.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.24                     112.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.25                     112.01
235 ILCS 5/4-1                        112.04
235 ILCS 5/4-2                        112.02
235 ILCS 5/4-4                        112.02
235 ILCS 5/4-5                        112.02
235 ILCS 5/4-7                        112.04
235 ILCS 5/6-1                        112.08;
                                      112.09
235 ILCS 5/6-1 et seq.                112.08
235 ILCS 5/6-2                        112.05
235 ILCS 5/6-3                        112.50
235 ILCS 5/6-21                       112.07
235 ILCS 5/6-21 et seq.               112.07
235 ILCS 5/7-1                        112.04
235 ILCS 5/7-5                        112.51;
                                      112.99
235 ILCS 5/7-7                        112.51
235 ILCS 5/7-9                        112.04;
                                      112.51
235 ILCS 5/7-12                       112.52
235 ILCS 5/7-13                       112.53
430 ILCS 66/1 et seq.                 131.03
625 ILCS 5/1-188                      10.02
625 ILCS 5/7-601 to 5/7-610           71.04
625 ILCS 5/11-1426.1(e)               71.03
625 ILCS 5/12-201                     71.03
625 ILCS 5/12-709                     71.02;
                                      71.21
720 ILCS 5/28-1(a)(3) through (a)(11) 112.05
720 ILCS 5/28-1.1                     112.05
720 ILCS 5/28-3                       112.05
725 ILCS 210/1 et seq.                131.03
730 ILCS 5/1-1-1 et seq.              10.99
730 ILCS 5/5-1-15                     10.99
765 ILCS 205/2                        156.37
820 ILCS 405                          33.40
                                      
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2021 Code
Prior Code 2021 Code
1-1        31.30
1-2        31.30
1-3        31.30
1-4        31.30
1-5        31.30
1-6        31.30
1-7        31.30
1-8        31.30
1-9        33.01
2-1        30.20
2-2        30.21
2-3        30.22
2-4        30.23
2-5        30.24
2-6        30.25
2-7        30.26
2-8        30.27
3-1        30.01
3-2        30.02
3-3        30.03
3-4        30.04
3-5        30.05
3-6        30.06
3-7        30.07
4-1        31.01
4-2        31.02
4-3        31.03
4-4        31.04
4-5        31.05
4-6        31.06
4-7        31.08
5-2        31.09
5-3        31.07
5-4        31.10
5-5        31.11
5-6        31.12
5-7        31.13
6-1        31.31
6-2        31.31
6-3        31.31
6-4        31.31
6-5        31.31
6-6        31.31
6-7        31.31
7-1        31.32
7-2        31.32
7-3        31.32
8-1        31.33
8-2        31.33
8-3        31.33
8-4        31.33
8-5        31.33
8-6        31.33
8-7        31.33
8-8        31.33
8-9        31.33
9-1        32.01
9-2        32.02
9-3        32.03
9-4        32.15
9-5        32.16
9-6        32.17
10-1       150.01
10-2       150.02
10-3       150.03
10-4       150.03
10-5       150.04
10-6       150.05
10-7       150.20
10-8       150.21
10-9       150.22
10-10      150.23
10-11      150.24
10-12      150.25
10-13      150.26
10-14      150.99
10-15      150.06
11-1       151.01
11-2       151.02
11-3       151.03
11-4       151.04
11-5       151.05
11-6       151.06
12-1       90.01
12-2       90.02
12-3       90.03
12-4       90.04
12-5       90.99
12-6       90.05
12-7       90.06
13-1       90.20
13-2       90.21
13-3       90.22
13-4       90.23
13-5       90.24
13-6       90.25
13-7       90.26
13-8       90.27;
           90.99
13-9       93.01;
           93.99
14-1       110.01
14-2       110.02
14-3       110.03
14-4       110.04
14-5       110.05
14-6       111.01
14-7       111.02
14-8       111.03
14-9       111.04
14-10      111.99
15-1       152.01
15-2       152.02
15-3       152.03
15-4       152.04
15-5       152.05
15-6       152.99
16-1       93.15
16-2       93.99
16-3       93.16
16-4       93.17
16-5       93.18
16-6       93.99
16-7       93.17
16-8       93.19
17-1       91.01;
           91.15
17-2       91.17
17-3       91.18
17-4       91.19
17-5       91.16
17-5A      91.01
17-6       91.20
17-7       91.21
17-8       91.20
17-9       91.99
18-1       151.20
18-2       151.21
18-3       151.22
18-4       151.23
18-5       153.15
18-6       151.99
18-7       153.16
18-8       153.17
19-1       154.01
19-2       154.02
19-3       154.03
19-4       154.04
20-1       131.01
20-2       131.15
20-3       131.30
20-4       131.31
20-5       131.32
20-6       131.02
20-7       132.07
20-8       131.03
20-9       131.16
20-10      132.35
20-11      132.21
20-12      132.36
20-13      132.20
20-14      132.37
20-15      132.38
20-16      132.39
20-17      132.40
20-18      131.04
20-19      132.42
20-20      132.43
20-21      132.44
20-22      132.01
20-23      132.04
20-24      132.05
20-25      132.02
20-26      132.03
20-27      132.06
20-28      132.41
20-29      132.45
20-30      130.01;
           130.99
21-1       11.01
21-2       11.02
21-3       10.99
22-1       33.02
22-2       33.02
22-4       33.02
22-5       33.02
22-6       33.02
24-1       30.08
26-1       71.35
26-2       71.36
           71.37;
26-3       71.99;
           Ch. 72, Schd. II
26-4       71.99
27-1       33.15
27-2       33.16
27-3       33.17
27-4       33.18
27-5       33.19
27-6       33.20
27-7       33.21
27-8       33.22
27-9       33.23
27-10      33.24
27-11      33.25
27-12      33.26
27-13      33.27
28-1       70.15
28-2       Ch.73, Schd. II;
           Ch. 73, Schd. IV
28-3       70.16
28-4       70.17
28-5       70.18
           70.01;
           70.20;
           70.35;
28-6       70.36;
           71.99;
           Ch. 72, Schd. I;
           Ch. 73, Schd. I
28-7       70.19
28-8       70.99
29-101     50.01
29-102     50.02
29-103     50.55
29-104     50.56
29-105     50.03
29-106     50.04
29-107     50.99
29-108     50.56
29-109     50.05
29-201     50.20
29-202     50.21
29-203     50.22
29-204     50.23
29-205     50.99
29-301     50.35
29-302     50.36
29-303     50.37
29-304     50.37
29-305     50.38
29-306     50.39
29-307     50.99
29-308     50.40
29-309     50.99
29-310     50.06
29-401     50.07
31.101     155.01
31.102     155.02
31-103     155.03
31-104     155.04
31-201     155.05
31-202     155.06
31-203     155.07
31-301     155.08
31-401     155.09
31-501     155.99
31-502     155.10
32-2       153.01
32-3       153.02
32-4       153.30
32-5       153.31
32-6       153.03
32-7       153.04
32-8       153.32
32-9       153.99
32-10      153.33
           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        8-2-2004    31.14
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
99-7     - -         32.30—
                     32.46
                     157.01;
                     157.02;
                     157.15—
                     157.21; 
                     157.35—
        2-5-1979    157.37;
                     157.50—
                     157.53;
                     157.65;
                     157.66;
                     157.99
-        9-8-1981    31.33
83-1     5-2-1983    157.17;
                     157.21
88       2-1-1988    157.16
88-2     2-1-1988    157.17;
                     157.21
-        6-4-1990    90.01
-        3-2-1992    30.03
                     10.99;
                     91.99;
                     93.99;
                     111.99;
                     131.01—
                     131.04;
                     131.15;
                     131.16;
                     131.30;
                     131.31;
                     131.32;
-        11-7-1994   132.01—
                     132.07;
                     132.20;
                     132.21;
                     132.35—
                     132.44;
                     150.99;
                     151.02—
                     151.05;
                     151.99;
                     152.99;
                     154.03;
                     155.99
96-1     2-5-1996    Ch. 73, Schd. III
96-5     8-5-1996    157.21
98-      6-1-1998    130.01;
                     130.99
99-      7-10-1999   157.21;
                     157.35
00-1     4-3-2000    157.02
-        10- -2000   50.56
                     92.01—
04-02    5-3-2004    92.05;
                     92.99
2004-06  6-7-2004    31.45
05-01    1-3-2005    33.02
2005-05  9-6-2005    Ch.73, Schd. II;
                     Ch. 73, Schd. IV
2005-06  9-6-2005    90.27;
                     90.99
05       11-7-2005   157.02
-        2-5-2007    50.38
                     90.01—
07-02    3-5-2007    90.06;
                     90.99
                     71.20—
08-05    8-4-2008    71.23;
                     71.99
09-02    7-6-2009    70.20
09-03    8-3-2009    TSO Table I
-        1-4-2010    50.55
-        3-1-2010    50.05
                     71.01—
10-07    3-7-2010    71.06;
                     71.99
10-03    6-1-2010    93.01;
                     93.99
11-01    3-7-2011    33.40
                     156.01—
                     156.03;
                     156.15—
522011   5-2-2011    156.20;
                     156.35—
                     156.38;
                     156.99
                     50.01—
                     50.07;
                     50.20—
                     50.23;
12-01    2-5-2012    50.35—
                     50.40;
                     50.55;
                     50.56;
                     50.99
2012-02  9-4-2012    TSO Table II
13-01    4-1-2013    31.15
                     91.01;
13-03    12-9-2013   91.16—
                     91.21;
                     91.99
15-      6-1-2015    33.01
                    
 
 
