CITY CODE of
DES PLAINES, ILLINOIS
2002
Code current through:
Ord. M-10-25, passed April 21, 2025, Ord. T-9-09, passed July 20, 2009,
and Ord. Z-3-25, passed March 3, 2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This Code of the City of Des Plaines, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance M-10-25, passed April 21, 2025, ordinance T-9-09,
passed July 20, 2009, and ordinance Z-3-25, passed March 3, 2025. Ordinances of
the City adopted after said ordinances supersede the provisions of this Code to
the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
City office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the Code
has been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
ORDINANCE   M -21-24
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE DES PLAINES CITY CODE TO REFLECT THE PLANNED
DISSOLUTION OF THE WHEELING/DES PLAINES JOINT EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEMS
BOARD.        
WHEREAS, the City of Des Plaines
(“City”) is a home rule municipal corporation in accordance with Article VII,
Section 6(a) of the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970; and
 
WHEREAS,  Chapter 13 of Title 1 of the City Code of Des Plaines (“ City Code ”)
entitled “Emergency Telephone Answering System,” establishes the authorizes the
City to operate an emergency telephone system (“ 9-1-1   System ”) and
designates that the 91-1 System will be administered by a Joint Emergency
Telephone System Board (“ JETSB ”) established pursuant to an intergovernmental
agreement;  and
 
WHEREAS, the City’s JETSB is governed by that certain "Amended and Restated
Intergovernmental Agreement Establishing a Joint Emergency Telephone Systems
Board" by sand between the City of Des Plaines (" Des Plaines "), and the
Village of Wheeling (“ Wheeling ”) (collectively and individually, the " Member
Municipalities ") dated July 17, 2017 (" Intergovernmental Agreement ") and by-
laws duly adopted; and
WHEREAS, Des Plaines has submitted a notice to Wheeling of its intent to
terminate the Intergovernmental Agreement and leave the JETSB in accordance
with the procedures set forth in Section 9 of the Intergovernmental Agreement;
and
WHEREAS, with the termination of Des Plaines’ participation in the JETSB, the
JETSB will be dissolved; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Resolution R-208-23, the City has entered into an
intergovernmental agreement with the County of Cook for the County to provide
dispatch services for the City (“ Dispatch IGA ”); and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Dispatch IGA, the Cook County Sheriff’s Office will
process 9-1-1 calls and provide other services for the 9-1-1 System, including
call taking, dispatching and radio monitoring as operated by the Cook County
Emergency Telephone System Board (“ County ETSB ”); and
WHEREAS, pursuant Resolution R-171-24, the City will enter into an
intergovernmental agreement with the County ETSB to allow for the disbursement
of 911 surcharges collected by the State of Illinois and attributable to users
of the City’s 9-1-1 System to the County ETSB (“ Surcharge Distribution IGA ”);
and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Resolution R-178-24, the City and Wheeling will enter into
a Wind-Down and Termination Agreement for the Wheeling Des Plaines JETSB (“
Wind-Down and Termination Agreement ”); and
WHEREAS, the City Council has determined that it is appropriate to amend the
language of Chapter 13 to reflect the dissolution of the JETSB and the City’s
transition to the County ETSB; 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Des
Plaines, Cook County, Illinois, in the exercise of its home rule
powers, as follows:
 
SECTION 1: RECITALS.  The foregoing recitals are incorporated into,
and made a part of, this Ordinance as the findings of the City Council.
 
SECTION 2: AMENDMENT.  Chapter 13, “Emergency Telephone Answering System – 9-1-
1,” of Title 1, “Administration,” of the City Code is hereby amended in its
entirety and shall be and read as follows: [Deleted Language is Struck Through.
New Language is Bolded and Double Underlined.]
 
1-13-1: AUTHORITY:
 
This chapter is enacted under the authority of the emergency telephone system
act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 750/0.01 et seq.
 
1-13-2: PURPOSE:
 
This chapter is enacted for the purpose of authorizing the operations of
 creating a joint emergency telephone answering system. The intent of this
system is to allow any telephone located within the city of Des Plaines and
connected to the public telephone network access to emergency services by
dialing the numbers 9-1-1.
 
1-13-3: AVAILABILITY:
 
The features offered by the emergency telephone answering system shall be
available twenty four (24) hours per day, seven (7) days per week.
 
1-13-4: ADMINISTRATION:
 
The city’s emergency telephone answering system shall  may be administered by a
joint emergency telephone system board ("JETSB") established pursuant to an
intergovernmental agreement with any agency authorized by the Illinois Commerce
Commission to operate an emergency telephone system and an emergency telephone
system board  approved by a duly adopted resolution of the city council.
 
1-13-5: FUNDING:
 
If authorized by 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 750/15.3, the city of Des
Plaines shall impose a surcharge on monthly billed subscribers of
telecommunication carriers at a rate per network connection in order to
implement and maintain a 9-1-1 emergency telephone system.
 
A surcharge is hereby imposed on monthly billed subscribers of
telecommunications carriers residing within the corporate limits of the city at
a rate of zero dollars ($0.00) per month, per network connection. Said
surcharge shall be collected by the telecommunications carriers. For purposes
of computing the surcharge imposed, the network connections to which the
surcharge shall apply shall be those in-service network connections, other than
those network connections assigned to the city, where the subscriber service
address for each such network connection(s) is located within the corporate
limits of the city.
 
Sections 1-13-6 through 1-13-10 are repealed and reserved for future use.
 
1-13-11: SEVERABILITY:
 
If any section, provision or portion of this chapter shall be adjudged invalid
by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not
be affected thereby.
 
SECTION 2: EFFECTIVE DATE.  This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect
from and after its passage, approval and publication in pamphlet form according
to law but only after the Migration Dates of both Des Plaines and Wheeling as
defined in the Wind-Down and Termination Agreement have both occurred.
 
PASSED this ___ day of _________________, 2024.
 
      APPROVED this ___ day of ____________________, 2024.
 
      VOTE: AYES _____ NAYS _____ ABSENT _____
                                                                                                                     
                                   MAYOR
 
ATTEST:
 
____________________________________
CITY CLERK
 
 
 
Published in pamphlet form this         Approved as to form:
______ day of _________________, 2024.   
 
 
 
                                       
CITY CLERK               Peter M. Friedman, General Counsel
 
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE M-67-02
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CITY OF DES PLAINES CITY CODE
   BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Des Plaines, Cook County,
Illinois, in the exercise of its home rule powers, as follows:
   Section 1: Pursuant to its home rule authority under the provisions of 65
ILCS 5/1-2-3 (2000), the Illinois Constitution, and the Code of Civil
Procedures 735 ILCS 5/8-1104 (2000), and from and after the date of passage of
this ordinance, the City Code of the City of Des Plaines, Illinois, prepared by
Sterling Codifiers, Inc. containing the compilation of all ordinances of a
general nature together with the changes made to said ordinances, under the
direction of the governing body of the City, shall be admissible in all courts
and hearings as the official code and law of the City as enacted by the Mayor
and City Council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., their successors or assigns, or any other
codifier selected by the City, whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official City Code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which shall be
maintained in the office of the City Clerk, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly
open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official City
Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official City Code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the City Code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official City Code.
   Section 4: Only the City Council by duly adopted ordinance may add or delete
portions of this Code. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code,
or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with
such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: That this Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and
after its passage, approval and publication in pamphlet form according to law.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1
DES PLAINES CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Interpretations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the governing body, this city code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official city code of the city of Des
Plaines. Any reference made to the number of any section contained herein shall
be understood to refer to the position of the same under its appropriate
chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto,
as well a to the section itself, when reference is made to this city code by
title in any legal document. (1963 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This city code shall hereafter be received without further proof in all courts
and in all administrative tribunals of this state as the ordinances of the city
of general and permanent effect, pursuant to the provisions of 735 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/8-1203. (2002 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute a sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendments or revisions by ordinance of any part of this city code. All
such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to
Sterling Codifiers, Inc., or their successors as determined by the city
council. Said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in its proper
place in each copy of this city code. Each such replacement shall be properly
identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the city code.
(1963 Code)
1-1-4: INTERPRETATIONS:
In the determination of the provisions of each section of this city code, the
following rules shall be observed:
   A.   Liability Of Employers And Agents: When the provisions of any section
of this city code prohibits the commission of an act, not only the person
actually doing the prohibited act or omitting the directed act, but also the
employer and all other persons concerned with or in aiding or abetting the said
person shall be guilty of the offense described and liable to the penalty set
forth. (1963 Code)
   B.   Liberal Construction: The provisions of this city code are to be
liberally construed to accomplish the intent of the city council to regulate,
promote and protect the general health, safety and welfare of the city and of
the citizens of Des Plaines. (2002 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Adoption Of Code
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability
1-2-1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this city
code are hereby repealed, except such as are referred to herein as being still
in force or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject
to the saving clauses contained in the following section), from which are
excluded the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances;
ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public
places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to
elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the city; and all special ordinances. (1963 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this city code or by
virtue of the preceding Section, excepting as this city code may contain
provisions for such matters, in which case this city code shall be considered
as amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only.
(1963 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance,
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied
to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this or the preceding section shall be construed as
abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of
the city herein repealed; or as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering
any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person,
firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or
provision thereof in force at the time of the adoption of this city code. (1963
Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase or
other part of this city code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The mayor and city
council hereby declare that they would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase or other part thereof
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, phrases or other parts be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2002 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions
1-3-3: Fiscal Year
1-3-4: Official Time
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this city code uses the plural tense in
describing or referring to any matter, parties or persons, all persons in that
section are included although not individually named or referred to.
When any subject matter, party or person is referred to in this city code by
words importing the masculine gender, females as well as males and bodies
corporate, shall be deemed to be included. Provided, that these rules of
construction shall not be applied to any section of this city code which
contains any express provision excluding such construction or where the subject
matter or content may be repugnant thereto. (1963 Code; amd. 2002 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
CITY: The city of Des Plaines, Illinois.
CODE: Unless otherwise specifically stated, shall mean this city code.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Des Plaines".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation, or for any permit, license or other charge required
or imposed by the city.
KNOWINGLY: With knowledge, consciously, intelligently and/or intentionally. It
does not require any knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense deemed a violation of the provisions of this code
which is a lesser offense than a felony, as defined by state law.
NEGLIGENT: Together with the words "neglect", "negligence" and "negligently",
imports a want of such attention to the nature or probable consequences of the
act or omission as a prudent man ordinarily bestows in acting in his own
concern.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the city; or any act or thing repugnant to,or creating a hazard
to, or having a detrimental effect on, the property of another person or to the
community.
OCCUPANT: Applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provisions of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code, state or federal law.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Des Plaines".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of or managing any operation, business or
profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner,
tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of such
building or land.
PERSON: Includes the singular and the plural and shall also mean and include
any person, firm, corporation, association, partnership or any other form of
association or organization.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished, and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in various quantities
direct to the consumer.
STREET: Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public squares
and public places.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in quantity to
persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WILFULLY: As applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to injure
another, or to acquire an advantage. (1963 Code; amd. 2002 Code)
1-3-3: FISCAL YEAR:
The fiscal year of the city shall commence on January 1 of each and every year
1
. (Ord. M-16-95, 4-3-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  3-4-3A of this code.
1-3-4: OFFICIAL TIME:
Central standard time shall hereafter be the official time within the city for
the transaction of all city business, except that at two o'clock (2:00) A.M. on
the first Sunday of April in each year, official time for the city shall be
advanced one hour, and at two o'clock (2:00) A.M. on the last Sunday of October
of the year, the official time shall, by retarding of the same one hour, be
returned to central standard time; and all legal or official proceedings of the
city council and all official business of the city shall be regulated thereby,
and when, by ordinance, resolution or action by any municipal officer or body,
an act must be performed at or within a prescribed time, it shall be done
according to official time. (Ord. M-39-96, 8-5-1996; amd. 2002 Code)
All clocks or other timepieces in or upon public buildings or other premises
maintained at the expense of the city shall be set and run according to the
official time provided in this section, and it is hereby made the duty of the
officer or other person having control and charge of such buildings and
premises to see that the clocks or other timepieces are set and run in
accordance with the official time as provided by this section.
All persons residing within the city and all persons doing business within the
city are hereby requested to set and run any clocks or other timepieces under
their control in accordance with the official time as provided in this section
1
. (Ord. M-39-96, 8-5-1996)
 
Notes
1 2. 5 ILCS 440/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: License Revocation
1-4-3: Application Of Provisions
1-4-4: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code, unless
otherwise specified, shall be fined a sum not to exceed seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense. The penalty provision of this section shall
be automatically applicable to and included in any ordinance that amends,
corrects or adds to any title, chapter or section of this code 1
. (Ord. M-23-81, 5-4-1981; amd. 2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.
1-4-2: LICENSE REVOCATION:
When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of this code, any
license previously issued to him by the city may be revoked as provided for in
this code if he has been convicted of, pled guilty to or been found guilty by a
court of law of a felony or an offense involving moral turpitude. (1963 Code;
amd. 2002 Code)
1-4-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code where any duty
is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any act which is of a continuing
nature or declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or
obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of the city code and there shall be no fine
or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this
chapter shall apply and a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each
day during or on which a breach or violation occurs or continues. (1963 Code)
1-4-4: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee or
a licensee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (1963 Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR 1
SECTION:
1-5-1: Qualifications
1-5-2: Powers And Duties
1-5-3: Mayor Pro Tem
1-5-4: Acting Mayor
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-7-5 of this title for mayor's compensation.
1-5-1: QUALIFICATIONS:
The mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the city; he shall be a
citizen of the United States, a qualified elector, reside within the city
limits, and shall hold office for four (4) years and until his successor is
elected and qualified unless hereafter otherwise provided by law. (1956 Code
ch. 1)
1-5-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   General Powers: The mayor shall devote so much of his time to the
duties of his office as a faithful and efficient discharge thereof may require.
Furthermore, he shall take care that all the provisions of this code and other
laws of the city are properly enforced and observed; he shall preside at all
meetings of the city council, but shall not vote on any ordinance, resolution
or motion, except:
      1.   Where the vote of the aldermen has resulted in a tie; or
      2.   Where one-half (1/2) of the aldermen elected have voted in favor of
an ordinance, resolution or motion, even though there is no tie vote; or
      3.   Where a vote greater than the majority of the corporate authorities
is required by statute to adopt an ordinance, resolution or motion. (Ord. M-47-
81, 8-17-1981)
   B.   Mayoral Appointments: The mayor shall submit all aldermanic and
commission appointments to the city council at the regular city council meeting
prior to the regular city council meeting at which ratification is to be
considered. (Ord. M-27-80, 7-7-1980)
   C.   Signatures; Contracts Of City: Except as otherwise expressly provided,
the mayor shall sign all commissions, licenses, permits and warrants issued or
drawn by order of the city council, or authorized by the provisions of this
code; in all contracts where the city is a party, he shall sign the same on
behalf of the city; and in all suits where the city is a party, it shall be his
duty to advise with and assist the city attorney in the prosecution or defense
of same, as the case may be. (1956 Code ch. 1; amd. 2002 Code)
   D.   Conservator Of The Peace; Release Prisoners: The mayor may exercise,
within the city limits, the power conferred upon him by law to suppress
disorder and keep the peace; and he may release any person imprisoned for
violation of any provision of this code, and shall report such release with the
cause thereof to the city council at its first session thereafter.
   E.   Additional Powers: In addition to the foregoing, the mayor shall
perform all such other duties and have all additional powers that are or may be
prescribed by the laws of the state, or the provisions of this code. (1956 Code
ch. 1)
1-5-3: MAYOR PRO TEM:
If a temporary absence or disability of the mayor incapacitates him from the
performance of his duties but does not create a vacancy in the office, the city
council shall elect one of its members to act as mayor pro tem. During this
absence or disability, the mayor pro tem shall perform the duties and possess
all the rights and powers of the mayor. Nothing in this section shall deprive
the mayor pro tem from voting in his capacity as alderman, but he shall not be
entitled to another vote in his capacity as mayor pro tem. (1956 Code ch. 1)
1-5-4: ACTING MAYOR:
If a vacancy occurs in the office of mayor, and the vacancy occurs with less
than twenty eight (28) months remaining in the unexpired portion of the mayoral
term or less than one hundred thirty (130) days before the general municipal
election, then the city council shall fill the vacancy by electing one of its
members as acting mayor, who shall serve as acting mayor until a mayor is
elected at the next general municipal election and has qualified, or until such
earlier time as determined by the city council at the time of the election of
the acting mayor. Nothing in this section shall deprive the acting mayor from
voting in his or her capacity as alderman, but the acting mayor shall not be
entitled to another vote in the capacity as acting mayor. (Ord. M-2-13, 1-22-
2013)
CHAPTER 6
CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Members And Terms
1-6-2: Election Procedures
1-6-3: Meetings
1-6-3-1: Meeting Procedures
1-6-4: Committees Of The City Council
1-6-5: Ordinance Procedures
1-6-1: MEMBERS AND TERMS:
The city council shall consist of eight (8) aldermen and the mayor.
The city council shall convene at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M., on the date of the
first regular meeting of the city council in May following the canvass of votes
after a city election and conclude any unfinished business still before it. The
terms of office of the mayor, city clerk and aldermen, whose offices may have
been up for election, shall commence at eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. or as soon
after the unfinished business of the sitting city council may have concluded.
(Ord. M-11-05, 3-21-2005)
1-6-2: ELECTION PROCEDURES:
The election of any aldermen may be contested by any elector of the city, and
the proceedings shall, except as herein provided, be in accordance with the
general laws of the state 1
. (Ch. 2, 1956 Code; amd. 2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 10 ILCS 5/23-1 et seq.
1-6-3: MEETINGS:
   A.   General: All meetings of the mayor and city council, and all committees
thereof, shall be conducted as provided by state law and the Illinois Open
Meetings Act, and under the procedures set out in this section.
   B.    Regular Meetings: The regular meetings of the city council shall be
held on the first and third Mondays of each month at the hour of seven o’clock
(7:00) P.M. at the Bertha Eleanor Rohrbach memorial council room in the civic
center, or at such other time and place within the limits of the city as the
mayor and city council may from time to time direct. If the day of a regular
city council meeting falls on a holiday on which the civic center is closed for
a city recognized holiday, then the city council shall meet at the same hour on
the next day which is not a holiday. However, the city council may determine to
hold its regular meeting on a holiday if so authorized by a vote of two-thirds
(2/3) of all aldermen then holding office.
   C.   General Structure of Regular Meetings: The regular meeting of the city
council shall include consideration of ordinances, resolutions, and other
matters before the council. The mayor shall direct the appropriate committee
chair to lead the council’s consideration of matters within the jurisdiction of
that chair’s committee. The mayor shall remain the presiding officer,
including, without limitation, for all votes of the council. The council may
convene at any time as the committee of the whole for general discussions on
matters initiated by the council, the mayor, or the city staff. The committee
of the whole may consider and make recommendations to be reported out to the
city council for action. Final action on all matters may only take place during
meetings of the city council and not when the city council is convened as the
committee of the whole.
   D.   Special Meetings: Special meetings of the city council may be called by
the mayor or any three (3) aldermen whenever they may deem it necessary. The
mayor or aldermen calling such meeting shall file with the city clerk a
statement in writing, setting forth the purpose of such special meeting and
directing the city clerk to give notice of the same. Upon the filing of said
statement, the city clerk shall cause to be served personally upon each member
of the city council, or left at his or her usual place of residence, at least
twenty four (24) hours before the time of such meeting, a notice thereof
setting forth the purpose of such special meeting and the time of holding same.
   E.   Quorum: A majority of the corporate authorities shall constitute a
quorum to do business, but a smaller number may adjourn from time to time and
may compel the attendance of absentees, under the penalties prescribed by
subsection F of this section.
   F.   Compelling Attendance: In case of the absence of a quorum at any time
of a city council meeting, a majority of the aldermen present may direct the
mayor, or presiding officer, to direct any City police officer to go out and
notify any and all absent members that can be found in the city, who are not
unable through sickness, to attend, and if upon notice and request by the
officer any such member shall refuse to attend, the officer shall, without
warrant, arrest the member and bring the member to the meeting.
   G.   Voting Required: Every member of the city council shall vote on all
questions for which a vote is called or taken by the city council, except a
member of the city council shall not vote on any matter when prohibited from
doing so pursuant to applicable provisions of Illinois statutes or the City’s
Code of Ethics (Title I, Chapter 9 of the City Code). (1956 Code ch. 2; amd. 1-
6-1958; Ord. M-24-93, 6-7-1993; 2002 Code; Ord. M-7-03, 2-18-2003)
1-6-3-1: MEETING PROCEDURES:
   A.   General. The current edition of “Robert’s Rules Of Order” shall govern
the proceedings of the city council, except where they conflict with the rules
set forth in this Code, in which case the rules set forth in this Code shall
apply to the extent of the conflict. These rules may be temporarily suspended
by either the unanimous consent of the members present or by a two-thirds (2/3)
vote of all the members elected to the city council.
      Rule 1.   The mayor shall take the chair at the hour appointed, or to
which the city council shall have adjourned, and shall immediately call the
members to order; whereupon the city clerk (or someone appointed to fill the
clerk’s place) shall proceed to call the roll of members, marking the members
present and absent for inclusion in the minutes. If a quorum is present, the
mayor shall so announce and the city council shall proceed with the order of
business.
      Rule 2.    At any meeting of the city council where a quorum shall be
assembled, and if the mayor is absent, the city clerk shall initially preside
and call the roll, whereupon the city council shall elect a mayor pro tem from
its membership to chair the meeting.
      Rule 3.    The City Manager shall be primarily responsible for
establishing and posting the agenda for city council meetings in accordance
with the Illinois Open Meetings Act. At the direction of the Mayor or any three
Alderman, items may be placed on a City Council agenda.
      Rule 4.    All questions relating to the priority of business shall be
decided without debate.
      Rule 5.    The mayor shall preserve order and decorum; may speak upon and
decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the city council; and
shall conduct all business before the city council with fairness and
impartiality to a speedy and proper result.
      Rule 6. Every member, prior to speaking or presenting any matter to the
city council, shall address the matter to the chair, and shall not proceed
until recognized by the chair.
      Rule 7. The Chair will attempt to ensure that all members will be given
an opportunity to speak on a matter prior to any member speaking more than once
on the matter.
      Rule 8.    A member called to order shall immediately stop speaking,
unless permitted to explain. If there is no appeal, the decision of the chair
shall be conclusive; but if the member appeals to the city council from the
decision of the chair, the city council shall decide the matter, and the
question to be put shall be, “Shall the decision of the chair be sustained?”.
      Rule 9. No motion shall be debated or put unless it is seconded. When a
motion is seconded, it shall be stated by the chair or read by the city clerk
before a vote.
      Rule 10. After a motion is stated by the chair, it shall be deemed to be
in possession of the city council, but may be withdrawn at any time by the
maker thereof, together with the consent of the second, before a vote or
amendment.
      Rule 11. If the question in debate contains several distinct
propositions, any member may, up   on request, have the same divided, except
that an ordinance shall be considered as a single proposition, not subject to
division.
      Rule 12. When a blank is to be filled, and different sums or times are
proposed, the question shall first be put upon the smallest sum and the longest
time.
      Rule 13. When a motion has been made and seconded and is before the city
council, no motion shall be received, except as herein specified, and which
shall have precedence in the order herein stated.
         1.   To fix the time to which to adjourn.
         2.   To adjourn.
         3.   To take a recess.
         4.   To raise a question of privilege.
         5.   To call for the orders of the day.
         6.   To lay on the table.
         7.   To call for the previous question. (2/3 vote of Council)
         8.   To limit or extend limits of debates. (2/3 vote of Council)
         9.   To postpone to a certain time.
         10.   To commit or refer.
         11.   To amend.
         12.   To postpone indefinitely.
      Rule 14. The motion to adjourn or to lay on the table shall be decided
without debate, and the motion to fix the time to which to adjourn and the
motion to adjourn shall always be in order, except:
         1.   When a member is in possession of the floor.
         2.   While the members are voting.
         3.   When it has been decided that the “previous question” shall be
taken.
      Rule 15. A motion to adjourn cannot be amended; but a motion to adjourn
to a given day or time shall be open to amendment and debate.
      Rule 16. When a question is postponed indefinitely, it shall not be taken
up again before the next regular meeting.
      Rule 17. A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but a motion
to amend an amendment to an amendment shall not be in order.
      Rule 18. When amendments are offered to any motion before the city
council, the vote shall first be taken on the amendment last proposed.
      Rule 19. An amendment modifying the intention of a motion shall be in
order, but an amendment relating to a different subject shall not be in order.
      Rule 20. In all cases where a motion shall be entered in the minutes of
the city council, the name of the member moving the same, together with that of
the second, shall also be entered on the minutes.
      Rule 21. The yeas and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all
ordinances, and all propositions to create a liability against the city or for
the expenditure or appropriation of its money, and in all other cases at the
request of any member, which yeas and nays shall be entered upon the minutes,
and a concurrence of a majority of all members elected to the city council
shall be necessary to the final passage of any such ordinance or proposition.
      Rule 22. All motions referring any matter to a standing or special
committee or to staff shall specify the issues to be considered by the
committee or staff.
      Rule 23. All communications, petitions, reports or any other papers
addressed to the city council, shall be filed with the city clerk, presented to
the mayor and the city council and then referred to staff for review. The staff
shall report back to the city council on the subject matter thereof.
      Rule 24. Unless otherwise limited by applicable law, a motion to
reconsider (“Reconsider Motion”) shall be in order at the same meeting at which
the vote to be reconsidered (“Underlying Matter”) was taken or at the next city
council meeting. If the Reconsider Motion passes at the same meeting at which
the vote on the Underlying Matter was taken, the Underlying Matter can be voted
on at that same meeting or at a subsequent city council meeting. If the
Reconsider Motion passes at the city council meeting after the meeting at which
the vote on the Underlying Matter was taken, then the Underlying Matter shall
be put on the agenda for the first city council meeting following passage of
the Reconsider Motion. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Rule,
no vote on the Underlying Matter shall be taken at any special meeting unless
at such special meeting there are present as many aldermen as were present at
the meeting at which the vote on the Underlying Matter was initially taken. A
Reconsider Motion may only be made by a member of the city council who voted
with the prevailing side on the Underlying Matter.
      Rule 25. Audience members who wish to address the council about an agenda
item under consideration will have an opportunity to make comments and ask
questions after presentations by the city staff and the interested parties.
Audience members who wish to make comments about any matter not on the agenda
for council consideration may do so only during the “Public Comment” portion of
the agenda. The following specific rules and procedures apply to all public
comment, whether made during a scheduled agenda item or during the “Public
Comment” portion of the agenda:
         25.1   The Mayor will ask if anyone wishes to address the Council on a
matter and will determine the order in which speakers will be recognized.
         25.2   As the Mayor recognizes an audience member who wishes to speak,
the speaker will rise and go to the microphone. The Mayor may ask each speaker
to state his or her name, address and group affiliation, if any, but no speaker
shall be required to state his or her address.
         25.3   Each speaker shall speak clearly into the microphone.
         25.4   All speakers shall address their comments to the Council, and
not to other members of the audience.
         25.5   Statements should be kept as brief, to the point, and non-
repetitive as possible.
         25.6   An immediate response, discussion or debate on public comments
shall not be required of the Council or any member of the Council.
         25.7   Unless an exception is granted by the Mayor or the Council,
each person will be allowed up to five minutes to speak. No person will be
allowed to speak a second time on the same matter until all people who wish to
speak on that matter have been allowed to do so. The Council may end public
comment.
         25.8   Public comments shall not be discourteous, belligerent,
impertinent, threatening, disparaging, or otherwise uncivil. No person shall
interrupt the proceedings of the Council or cause any other form of disturbance
or disruption.
         25.9   Any person acting or appearing in a lewd or disgraceful manner,
or who uses opprobrious, obscene or insulting language to or about the mayor or
any member of the city council or anybody in attendance, or who does not obey
the orders of the mayor, shall be expelled from the meeting by the mayor;
provided that a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the city council may overturn the
decision of the chair to expel. By a vote of two-thirds of the city council any
such person may be expelled from the meeting, and by a majority vote of the
council present may be censured.
         25.10   When the city council is sitting as the committee of the
whole, the rules for public comment set forth in this Rule 25 shall apply.
         25.11   Rules 25.1 through 25.10 concerning public comment and
participation apply to all public bodies in the City unless a public body
adopts, or has adopted, more specific rules and procedures that provide
additional opportunities for public comment and participation, in which case
the more specific rules and procedures control. When Rules 25.1 through 25.10
are applied to a public body other than the city council, references to the
council and the mayor will be deemed to be references to the public body and
its chair, respectively. Further, references to the mayor will be deemed to
include the appropriate committee chair leading council consideration under
Subsection 1-6-3.C of these Rules.
      Rule 26. The mayor pro tem when selected from the city council, shall not
be deprived of his or her right to vote or debate, but shall have only one vote
on each matter.
      Rule 27. Whenever a question is laid on the table, it remains there until
taken from the table and the question does not die if not taken from the table
within any time limit.
      Rule 29. Whenever any alderman elects to abstain from voting on any
question which comes before the city council for its action, the alderman shall
be required to give an explanation for the abstention.
      Rule 30. Upon the request of any two aldermen present, any report of a
committee of the city council shall be deferred for final action to the next
regular meeting of the city council after the report is made.
      Rule 31. The “consent agenda” shall be the equivalent of the “omnibus
vote” as provided in 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-40. A favorable vote on a motion to
approve the consent agenda shall constitute approval of all of the matters
included on the consent agenda. The mayor, city clerk, any alderman, or any
resident of Des Plaines may direct that an item be removed from the consent
agenda. Any item removed shall be considered separately, following the
conclusion of the vote on the consent agenda. (1956 Code ch. 2; amd. Ord. M-11-
03, 2-18-2003)
1-6-4: COMMITTEES OF THE CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Standing Committees: The following shall be the standing committees of
the city council:
      Building Code
      Community Development
      Community Services
      Engineering
      Finance and Administration
      Legal and Licensing
      Public Safety
      Public Works
   B.   Composition of Standing Committees. Each Standing Committee shall
consist of three aldermen as selected pursuant to Subsection C of this Section.
Each Committee shall be comprised of a chair, a vice chair, and one other
member. The mayor and the remaining aldermen shall have the right to attend any
meeting of a standing committee and to participate in discussion, but shall not
be members of the committee. No alderman will serve as chair of more than one
committee. No alderman will serve as vice chair of more than one committee.
   C.   Committee on Committees. At the first regular meeting after a City
election, the city council shall appoint a chair for a committee known as the
“committee on committees” which shall be a committee of the whole. A date for a
meeting of the committee on committees shall be set between the first and
second regular city council meetings after a City election. The committee shall
meet and prepare a recommendation of appointments and designation of chairs and
vice chairs and members for the standing committees. At the next regular
meeting of the City council, the committee on committees shall submit a
recommended resolution to the City council designating the chairs, vice chairs,
and members of the standing committees. The City council shall, by a majority
vote of the City council, adopt a resolution designating the chairs, vice
chairs, and members of the standing committees. The standing committee
assignments shall be for two years.
   D.   Special Committees. The mayor may appoint such special committees as he
may consider necessary from time to time with the consent of a majority vote of
the city council. Each special committee shall be automatically dissolved after
three months from the date of establishment, unless the special committee is
extended by a majority vote of the city council.
   E.   Committee Duties. Each committee, whether standing or special, shall
promptly and thoroughly investigate and report to the mayor and city council
upon all matters referred to it by the city council, and shall attach to its
report all staff documents in the possession of the committee relating thereto,
and do and perform such other and further duties as the mayor and city council
may, from time to time, prescribe.
   F.   Mayor. The mayor shall be an ex officio member of each standing and
special committee, entitled to attend, participate in discussion, but not to
vote in committee.
   G.   Committee Matters: The chair of a committee may place an item for
consideration on that committee’s agenda by making a request to the city
clerk’s office by twelve o’clock (12:00) noon on the Monday preceding the day
for distribution of the packet of information for the city council. (Ord. M-24-
93, 6-7-1993; amd. Ord. M-32-99, 6-21-1999; 2002 Code)
1-6-5: ORDINANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   First And Second Reading: All ordinances shall be in writing. The city
manager shall number each proposed ordinance and place it on the agenda of a
city council meeting. The agenda shall include the ordinance number and a brief
description of the subject matter of the ordinance. An ordinance may be
approved on first reading by a majority of the city council present at the
meeting. If an ordinance is approved on first reading, the ordinance shall
advance to second reading. The city clerk shall place the ordinance on the
agenda of the next city council meeting. No ordinance may be adopted unless it
has been advanced to and approved on second reading by the city council.
Adoption of an ordinance on second reading requires the concurrence of a
majority of the city council; provided, however, that an ordinance may be
advanced to second reading for adoption at the same meeting at which first
reading was approved only upon a vote of no less than five members of the city
council or two-thirds of the corporate authorities present, whichever is
greater.
   B.   City Council Reconsideration; Passing Over Veto: Every resolution and
motion, and every ordinance which is returned to the city council by the mayor,
shall be reconsidered by the city council at the next regular meeting following
the meeting at which the veto is actually or constructively received. (Ord. M-
57-79, 12-3-1979; Ord. M-11-03, 2-18-2003)
CHAPTER 7
CITY OFFICIALS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Elected And Appointed Officers
1-7-2: Term Of Office
1-7-3: Oath Of Office
1-7-4: Official Bonds
1-7-5: Official Salaries
1-7-6: Lawsuits Involving City Officers
1-7-7: Provisions Relating To City Officers
1-7-1: ELECTED AND APPOINTED OFFICERS:
   A.   Officers Of The City:
      1.   Elected: The mayor, aldermen and city clerk shall be elected in
accordance with the provisions of the Illinois municipal code.
      2.   Appointed: All other officers provided for by the provisions of this
code shall be appointed by the mayor, with the approval of the city council,
unless otherwise provided for in the provision creating such office 1
. (Ord. M-18-81, 4-6-1981; amd. Ord. M-60-84, 1-8-1984)
   B.   Certificate Of Election Or Appointment: The mayor shall issue a
certificate of election or appointment, under the seal of the city, to the city
clerk who shall immediately notify the person elected or appointed, using the
proper form as provided by statute. Any officer of the city shall, within five
(5) days after notification and request, deliver to his successor in office or
to the city clerk all property, books and effects of every description in his
possession belonging to the city or appertaining to his office. Upon his
refusal to do so, he shall be liable for all damages caused thereby and also be
subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title; and no financial settlement between the officer and the
city shall be made until the provisions of this section are fully complied
with. (1956 Code ch. 5 art. I; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Qualifications: No person shall be eligible for an elected office
unless he is a qualified elector of the city and unless he has resided therein
at least one year next preceding his election. No appointed officer shall be
required to be a qualified elector of the city nor shall any appointed officer
be required to be a resident of the city. No person shall be eligible for an
appointed or elected office who is a defaulter to the city. (Ord. M-17-74, 4-1-
1974)
   D.   Commission Of Officers: All officers elected or appointed shall be duly
commissioned by warrant under the city's seal, signed by the mayor and the city
clerk. (1956 Code ch. 5 art. I)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5.
1-7-2: TERM OF OFFICE:
All officers appointed shall hold their offices during the calendar year in
which they are appointed and until their successors are appointed and
qualified, unless otherwise specifically provided by law or direction of the
city council at the time of such appointment. Effective upon the passage and
certification of the referendum on April 4, 2023, the number of terms of office
of each elected city official is limited to no more than two four-year terms of
office, whether consecutive or not. (Ord. M-67-03, 10-6-2003, eff. retroactive
to 11-3-1998; amd. Ord. M-84-23, 5-1-2023)
1-7-3: OATH OF OFFICE:
All officers of the city, elected or appointed, shall take and subscribe the
following oath or affirmation before entering upon the duties of their
respective offices:
   I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support the constitution of the
United States and the constitution of the state of Illinois and that I will
faithfully discharge the duties of the office of             according to the
best of my ability.
This oath or affirmation shall be filed in the city clerk's office. (1956 Code
ch. 5 art. I; amd. 1963 Code)
1-7-4: OFFICIAL BONDS:
   A.   Bonds Required: The following officers of the city shall be required to
give bonds in the following amounts:
 
Mayor                                           Not less than $3,000.00
City clerk                                      Not less than $5,000.00
Director of finance and administrative services Statutory limit 1
 
All other officers, except aldermen, shall give bond in such sums as the mayor
and city council may by resolution require at the time of their election or
appointment, or as may be required by law. (Ch. 5 Art. III, 1956 Code; amd.
1963 Code; 2002 Code)
   B.   Condition Of Bonds: The bond of each officer shall be executed and made
payable to the city and shall be a surety company bond satisfactory to and
approved by the city council. The bond shall be conditioned for the faithful
performance of the duties of his office and the payment to the proper officer
all monies coming into his hands by virtue of his office.
   C.   Filing Of Bonds: After approval as aforesaid, the city clerk shall
endorse on each bond the date thereof and file the same in his office, except
the bond of the city clerk which shall be filed with the director of finance
and administrative services.
   D.   Failure To Qualify: If any person elected or appointed to any city
office shall fail to meet the bonding requirements aforesaid before the date he
is required to enter upon the duties of his office, the office shall become
vacant. (Ch. 5 Art. III, 1956 Code; amd. 1963 Code)
   E.   Officer Not To Be Surety For Another Officer: No officer of the city
shall furnish or become surety on the official bond of any other city officer,
under a penalty as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this title. (Ch. 5 Art. I, 1956 Code; amd. 2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/5-3-9.
1-7-5: OFFICIAL SALARIES:
   A.   Mayor, Aldermen: Until the swearing in of elected officials following
the 2029 consolidated elections, the official salaries of the mayor and
aldermen are as follows:
 
Mayor    $9,600.00 per year
Aldermen $250.00 per month or a maximum per year of $3,000.00
 
      Upon the swearing in of elected officials following the 2029 consolidated
elections, the official salaries of the mayor and alderman will be as follows:
 
Mayor    $30,000.00 per year
Alderman $1,250.00 per month or a maximum per year of $15,000.00
 
      The salaries of the mayor and alderman that take effect following the
2029 consolidated elections will increase on an annual basis thereafter at a
rate of two percent per year. Effective June 5, 1989 and only until the
swearing in of elected officials following the 2029 consolidated elections,
aldermen shall also receive, not as compensation but as expenses, the sum of
one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per month representing expenses incurred as
a result of performing aldermanic duties. Effective July 1995 and only until
the swearing in of elected officials following the 2029 consolidated elections,
the mayor shall receive, not as compensation but as expenses, the sum of two
hundred dollars ($200.00) per month representing expenses incurred as a result
of performing mayoral duties.
 
   B.   City Clerk: Until the swearing in of elected officials following the
2029 consolidated elections, the official salary of the city clerk is as
follows:
 
Per year $6,000.00
 
      Upon the swearing in of elected officials following the 2029 consolidated
elections, the officials salary of the city clerk will be as follows:
 
Per year $12,000.00
 
      The salary of the City Clerk that takes effect following the 2029
consolidated elections will increase on an annual basis thereafter at a rate of
two percent per year.
   C.   Officers, Elected Officials:
      1.   All officers of the city shall receive such salaries, fees or
compensation as may be affixed by the city council, with minimum as established
by statute, if applicable. After such compensation has been fixed, it shall not
be increased or diminished so as to have any change take effect during the term
of which any officer affected by it was elected or appointed 1.
      2.   All salaries of elected officials shall be set as provided by state
law. (Ord. M-40-08, 11-3-2008)
   D.   Additional Compensation: The mayor and aldermen and city clerk shall,
during their respective terms of office, be eligible to participate, along with
their families, in the health, dental, and life insurance programs offered to
all city employees. For any such participant, the city will pay premiums for
the applicable health, dental, and life insurance program consistent with the
payments made by the city on behalf of city employees for such program, and any
such participant shall be required to pay premium costs, deductibles, copays,
coinsurance, and charges in excess of applicable coverage limitations that are
in effect from time to time during the term of their participation in the
programs as provided to all city employees. (Ord. M-9-16, 3-21-2016; amd. Ord.
M-10-25, 4-21-2025)
1-7-6: LAWSUITS INVOLVING CITY OFFICERS:
All lawsuits filed against elected or appointed city officials, in their
capacity as employees or agents of the city, shall be defended by the city. Any
judgments or expenses resulting therefrom shall be paid by the city unless a
determination or finding is made by the city council that the elected or
appointed official acted outside the scope of his position. (Ord. M-4-86, 1-20-
1986)
1-7-7: PROVISIONS RELATING TO CITY OFFICERS:
   A.   Holding Other Offices Prohibited: The mayor, aldermen and city clerk
shall hold no other office under the city government during his term of office,
unless hereinafter otherwise provided by law.
   B.   Inspection Of Records: All books, papers, vouchers, warrants,
correspondence, entries, accounts and memoranda of each and every officer
having any reference to city matters may be examined at any time by the mayor
or any member of the city council or any person whom the city council may
appoint to that purpose. The city council may, by resolution, call upon any
officer to make a report in writing concerning any subject matter pertaining to
his office, and within such time as the city council may designate in the
resolution.
   C.   Interest In Contracts: No officer of the city shall be directly or
indirectly interested in any contract, work or business of the city, or the
sale of any article, the expense, price or consideration of which is paid from
the treasury or by any assessment levied by any act or ordinance; nor in the
purchase of any real estate or other property belonging to the city, or which
shall be sold for taxes or assessments or by virtue of legal process at the
suit of the city.
   D.   Assignment Of Additional Duties: Besides the specific duties required
by law or the provisions of this code, every officer shall also perform such
other duties as usually pertain to his office. The mayor or the city council
may require or establish by ordinance any additional appropriate duties, rules
and regulations for the office.
   E.   Reports Of Monies Collected: Any officer of the city in any way charged
with the collection or handling of city monies shall, on the first day of each
month or more often if required, except where otherwise provided by law, turn
over to the director of finance and administrative services all such city
monies. Anyone who shall fail to account for same when so required, or who
shall default in the payment of any monies to the city as aforesaid, shall be
subject to immediate removal from office by the mayor and the city council.
(1956 Code ch. 5 art. I)
   F.   Badges 1
: Full time and volunteer members of the police department and fire department
shall be furnished with badges (stars) displaying the suitable emblem of
authority in their respective departments, and city officials shall be issued
suitable identification cards and badges. All badges shall be furnished at the
expense of the city. (Ord. M-89-01, 12-3-2001)
 
Notes
  1. See also section
1 3-2-9 and subsection
  3-3-5A of this code.
ARTICLE A. CITY MANAGER
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Office Created
1-7A-2: Appointment And Term
1-7A-3: Bond
1-7A-4: Powers And Duties
1-7A-5: Chain Of Command
1-7A-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created the office of city manager, an administrative office of
the city. The city manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the
city. (Ord. M-14-88, 4-18-1988)
1-7A-2: APPOINTMENT AND TERM:
   A.   Appointment: The city manager shall be appointed by the mayor by and
with the advice and consent of the city council. The city manager shall be
chosen by the mayor and said choice shall be considered by the city council
solely on the basis of executive and administrative qualifications, with
special reference to actual experience in or knowledge of accepted practices in
respect to the duties of the office hereinafter set forth and such requirements
and qualifications are hereby declared to be of a nature as to require special
training, education and/or knowledge. No alderman or mayor shall receive such
appointment during the term for which he shall have been elected, nor within
one year after the expiration of that term. The city manager shall hold no
public elected office during his tenure as city manager. During the absence or
disability of the city manager, the mayor, with the advice and consent of the
city council, may designate some properly qualified person to act as city
manager pro tempore to perform the duties of the office. Upon the occurrence of
a vacancy, the mayor shall direct the human resources department to advertise
within fourteen (14) days of the vacancy, to fill the vacant city manager
position. (Ord. M-14-88, 4-18-1988)
   B.   Term Of Office: The term of office of the city manager shall be as
established through an employment contract. (Ord. M-17-92, 6-1-1992; amd. 2002
Code)
1-7A-3: BOND:
The city manager shall furnish a bond to the city conditioned for the faithful
performance of his duties and according to the provisions of section
1-7-4 of this chapter. (Ord. M-14-88, 4-18-1988)
1-7A-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The city manager shall perform such duties as herein provided:
   A.   Chief Administrative Officer: As the chief administrative officer of
the city, the city manager shall be responsible to the mayor and to the city
council for the management and operation of all of the affairs and the
departments of the city, and shall have the management and control of all
matters and things pertaining to the operation and maintenance of the
properties of the city and of all of the departments of the city. The city
manager shall also have supervision of such other administrative agencies and
departments and officers as may be hereafter created by the city council unless
the management and control of such departments and officers is expressly
delegated elsewhere. The city manager shall have access and control of all
documents, including debts, mortgages, leases, contracts, judgment orders,
notes and bonds such as are directed by law or ordinance to be deposited
elsewhere. (Ord. M-27-89, 7-17-1989; amd. Ord. M-23-91, 6-17-1991; 2002 Code)
   B.   General Duties: Specifically, but not in limitation of the above, the
city manager shall have the following additional powers and duties:
      1.   Recommend to the mayor the appointment of all officers and employees
who are required by law to be appointed by the mayor. The city manager shall
recommend removal or suspension of any such officer or employee to the mayor
and city council, when such removal or suspension shall be consistent with the
best interests of the city. All such recommendations for appointment or any
removal or suspension shall be based upon merit and upon the qualifications or
disqualifications of such employee without regard to political belief or
affiliation. (Ord. M-17-92, 6-1-1992)
      2.   Have the power to appoint and to discharge any assistant city
manager, assistant to the city manager, administrative assistant to the city
manager or any executive secretary within the city manager's department. All
such appointments or discharges shall be based upon merit and the
qualifications or disqualifications of such employee. (Ord. M-14-99, 4-19-1999)
      3.   Have the power to recommend appointments and discharges of all civil
service employees, subject to rules and regulations of the civil service
commission, exclusive of employees and officers of the police department and
exclusive of regular firefighters employed on a full time basis, and as to said
excluded employees, the city manager shall abide by the provisions of the rules
and regulations of the police and fire commission. Upon discharge of any
employee, the city manager shall submit to the city council at the next meeting
following such removal a statement concerning said removal and the reasons
therefor.
      4.   From time to time recommend the consolidation, combination or
reorganization of job descriptions, departments or employment positions to the
mayor and city council. (Ord. M-14-88, 4-18-1988)
      5.   Prepare and submit to the city council a proposed annual budget for
the city. The total projected general fund balance in the proposed budget for
the end of the fiscal year shall not be less than ten percent (10%) of the
total budgeted expenditures for that fiscal year. (Ord. M-45-93, 9-20-1993)
      6.   Recommend to the mayor and the city council the salaries to be paid
each hired and appointed employee of the city. (Ord. M-14-88, 4-18-1988)
      7.   Make all necessary purchases of supplies and equipment for all
departments of the city. (Ord. M-14-88, 4-18-1988; amd. 2002 Code)
      8.   Attend all meetings of the city council unless excused therefrom by
the mayor, except when his removal is under consideration by the city council.
The city manager shall have the privilege of taking part in the discussion of
all matters coming before the city council. (Ord. M-14-88, 4-18-1988)
      9.   Make investigations into the affairs of the city or any department
or division thereof and shall investigate all complaints in relation to matters
concerning city services and city administration. (Ord. M-17-92, 6-1-1992)
      10.   Devote his entire time to the discharge of official duties.
      11.   Perform such other duties as may be required by the city council
consistent with the city ordinances and statutes of the state of Illinois.
(Ord. M-14-88, 4-18-1988)
1-7A-5: CHAIN OF COMMAND:
A majority of the city council shall instruct the city manager to convey their
policy and directives to the department heads and others on the staff. The city
manager has all the duties prescribed in the ordinance and the aldermen all
duties prescribed by state statute and the ordinances of the city. Aldermen
shall deal with the administrative service through the city manager, and
aldermen shall not give orders to any subordinates of the city manager, either
publicly or privately. (Ord. M-27-89, 7-17-1989)
ARTICLE B.CITY CLERK
SECTION:
1-7B-1: Qualifications And Duties
1-7B-2: Authority
1-7B-3: Principal Duties And Responsibilities
1-7B-1: QUALIFICATIONS:
The city clerk shall be a qualified elector of the city who shall have resided
within the city at least one (1) year next preceding the clerk’s election.
(Ord. M-15-19, 6- 3-2019; amd. Ord. M-5-25, 3-17-2025)
1-7B-2: AUTHORITY:
   A.   City Clerk: The city clerk shall work with the employees of the City
Clerk’s office to maintain and update the city's record keeping and to
undertake the other duties and responsibilities of the City Clerk as set forth
in this Article. Within limits of approved policies, procedures and programs,
the city clerk has authority to accomplish such duties in connection with the
keeping of public records as shall be ordained by state statutes, this code or
by direction of the city council. All employees of the City Clerk’s office
shall be under the supervision and control of the City Manager, or the
Manager’s designee.
   B.   Deputy City Clerk: The city clerk is authorized to appoint one deputy
clerk from city employees and the deputy clerk shall be empowered to affix the
deputy clerk’s authenticated signature to any and all necessary documents. Upon
such appointment, the city clerk shall report the same to the city council and
shall require the genuine signature of the deputy clerk to be inserted in the
journal of proceedings. In the absence of the city clerk, the deputy city clerk
is authorized to perform all duties of the city clerk to ensure continuity of
operations. (Ord. M-15- 19, 6-3-2019; amd. Ord. M-5-25, 3-17-2025)
1-7B-3: PRINCIPAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The city clerk shall have the following duties and functions:
   A.   Functions: The city clerk:
      1.   Shall be known as the secretary of the city council, and shall
handle all correspondence regarding city council activities.
      2.   Will work with the City Manager or the Manager’s designee on
processes and identifying efficiencies pertaining to the Clerk’s
responsibilities or duties, which may be delegated by the Clerk to the deputy
city clerk or other employees in the City Clerk’s office.
   B.   Meetings: The city clerk shall:
      1.   Attend all meetings of the city council and keep a full record of
its proceedings in the journal and prepare and distribute meeting minutes.
      2.   Issue notices of all regular, special and committee meetings of the
city council in compliance with the open meetings act requirements.
      3.   Prepare and publish annual calendar of meetings, post notices and
notifications to the press of all meetings of the city council, boards and
commissions.
   C.   Filing and Certification of Records and Documents: The city clerk
shall:
      1.   Keep all records of the city, including, but not limited to,
minutes, ordinances, resolutions, agreements, bonds, contracts, plats, deeds,
insurance policies, annexations, city owned property and maps, the custody and
control of which are not given to other officers. The city clerk shall be
responsible for the disposal of official records as allowed by law.
      2.   Be the official custodian of the city seal and certify documents
with the city seal, when applicable.
      3.   Obtain necessary signatures on City Council approved documents
related to Resolutions and Ordinances.
      4.   Prepare documents for recording, when applicable.
      5.   File applicable documents with county and state officials,
including, without limitation, tax levy, tax abatements, annexations and annual
treasurer's report, as required by law. Before filing, publish annual
treasurer's report in any newspaper of general circulation in the city, by June
30.
      6.   Responsible for the archiving of all city records as required.
      7.   Publish legal notices and all documents, which by law are required
to be published, in a newspaper of general circulation in the city.
      8.   Maintain and codify all codes and ordinances and provide for the
distribution of supplements.
      9.   Receive and distribute all communications addressed to the city
council or other city officials. The city clerk shall receive and distribute to
proper city officials all lawsuits served upon the city.   
   D.   Bidding Procedures: The city clerk shall:
      1.   Publish legal notice for bids.
      2.   Open all bids publicly at the designated time and place and in the
manner provided in the purchasing policy.
   E.   Elections: The city clerk shall:
      1.   Serve as the local election authority and perform such duties as set
forth by state statutes, the Cook County clerk and the city, including, without
limitation, register voters, process candidate petitions and local referendums.
      2.   Within five days after the result of any election is declared or
appointment is made, notify all persons elected or appointed.
      3.   Keep a record of the election or appointment of all officers
including Boards and Commissions of the city to include each officer's name,
office, the date of election or appointment, and date of death, resignation,
removal from office or expiration of term of office.
   F.   State and City Law Responsibilities: The city clerk shall:
      1.   Process all requests received under the freedom of information act.
      2.   Comply with state ethics legislation requirements, including,
without limitation, prepare list of city personnel required to file statement
of economic interest and certify the list to Cook County.
      3.   Comply with city ethics legislation requirements, maintain records
of ethics statements and other employment disclosure statements of all
applicable city officials (including, without limitation, the mayor, city
clerk, aldermen, department heads and any person acting as a department head,
along with appointed members of the planning and zoning board and the library
board). (Ord. M-15-19, 6-3-2019; amd. Ord. M-5-25, 3-17-2025)
CHAPTER 8
POSITION GRADE AND COMPENSATION PLAN
SECTION:
1-8-1: Grades
1-8-2: Application And Interpretation Of Position Grade And Compensation Plan
1-8-3: Administration And Maintenance Of The Position Grade And Compensation
Plan
1-8-4: Compensation Plan
1-8-5: Reserved
1-8-6: Administration And Maintenance Of Compensation Plan
1-8-1: GRADES:
   A.   Grades Of Positions: All nonunion full time positions, defined as
working 37.5 or more hours per week, in the City service shall be allocated to
grades, and each grade shall include those positions sufficiently similar in
respect to their duties and responsibilities so that similar requirements as to
training, experience, knowledge, skill, ability, and similar rates of
compensation are applicable thereto.
   B.   Classified Service: The classified service shall consist of those
nonunion positions in the grades set forth in the City's Personnel Policy
Manual. All union positions shall also be considered part of the classified
service and shall be as set forth in the applicable collective bargaining
agreements. Any changes to the classified service shall be made by amendments
to the City's Personnel Policy Manual, or pursuant to collective bargaining
agreements or amendments thereto.
   C.   Unclassified Service: The unclassified service shall consist of the
following positions, with such changes as may be approved by the City Council
by amendments to this chapter:
      Officers of the City elected by the people, including specifically:
      Mayor
      City Clerk
      Aldermen
   D.   Adoption Of Grade And Compensation Plan: The grades of classified
nonunion positions as set forth in Appendix U of the City's Personnel Policy
Manual, and the salary schedules for the associated positions. (Ord. M-11-19,
4-15-2019)
1-8-2: APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION OF POSITION GRADE AND COMPENSATION PLAN:
Position descriptions for all positions shall be prepared by the Director of
Human Resources and shall be approved by the City Manager. These position
descriptions shall define the duties, responsibilities, and qualification
requirements of all positions. Each position description for nonunion positions
shall identify in which grade the position falls. (Ord. M-11-19, 4-15-2019)
1-8-3: ADMINISTRATION AND MAINTENANCE OF THE POSITION GRADE AND COMPENSATION
PLAN:
Responsibility: The Human Resources Director, under the direction of the City
Manager, is responsible for the administration and maintenance of the position
grade and compensation plan. (Ord. M-11-19, 4-15-2019)
1-8-4: COMPENSATION PLAN:
The compensation plan with annual rates for all nonunion classified positions
shall be contained in the City's Personnel Policy Manual. (Ord. M-11-19, 4-15-
2019)
1-8-5: RESERVED:
(Ord. M-24-13, 10-21-2013)
1-8-6: ADMINISTRATION AND MAINTENANCE OF COMPENSATION PLAN:
   A.   The annual pay range (minimum and maximum) of each grade and longevity
pay shown in Appendix U of the Personnel Policy Manual, shall be changed only
by the City Council through the annual budget adoption or via a separate
Resolution.
   B.   The Director of Human Resources, under the direction of the City
Manager, shall be responsible for the administration and maintenance of the
compensation plan. Changes in the compensation plan shall be made so as to
maintain the differentials between the grades and to reflect general increases
and changes in prevailing rates of pay for comparable positions outside the
City service. (Ord. M-11-19, 4-15-2019)
CHAPTER 9
CODE OF ETHICS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Policy Statement
1-9-2: Applicability
1-9-3: Definitions
1-9-4: Responsibilities Of Public Office
1-9-5: Disclosure
1-9-6: Conflict Of Interest
1-9-7: Gifts And Favors
1-9-8: Abuse Of Position
1-9-9: Confidential Information
1-9-10: Enforcement And Penalties
1-9-11: City Of Des Plaines Employment
1-9-12: Political Activities
1-9-13: Representation Before City Bodies Or Courts
1-9-14: Postcity Employment Restrictions
1-9-15: Validity Of Contract
1-9-16: Invalid Actions
1-9-17: Other Remedies
1-9-18:    Sexual Harassment Training, Reporting And Investigation
1-9-1: POLICY STATEMENT:
   A.   It is the policy of the city that, in all cases, its city officials and
employees perform their duties for the benefit of the citizens of the city.
They shall conduct the government of the city with integrity and impartiality,
without allowing prejudice, favoritism or the opportunity for personal gain to
influence their decisions or actions or to interfere with serving the public
interest.
   B.   The purpose of this chapter is to establish ethical standards of
conduct for all "city officials" as defined in section
1-9-3 of this chapter, by setting forth those acts or actions that are
incompatible with the best interests of the citizens of the city and by
directing disclosure by all city officials of private financial or other
interests in matters which may affect the city. (Ord. M-15-95, 3-27-1995)
1-9-2: APPLICABILITY:
All of the provisions of this chapter, except as otherwise indicated, apply to
all city officials, whether paid or unpaid. With the exception of section
1-9-12 of this chapter, the provisions of this chapter do not apply to
independent contractors. (Ord. M-28-16, 11-21-2016)
1-9-3: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
AFFILIATED SUBCONTRACTOR: Any person or organization who performs more than
either one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or fifty percent (50%) of a city
contractor's sales, contracts, leases, or purchases to, from, or with the city
or any city agency. This definition shall include an entity and its
subsidiaries, parent company, or otherwise affiliated companies and affiliated
subcontractors, and any of their employees, officers, directors and partners
who makes a political contribution for which they are reimbursed by a city
contractor or affiliated subcontractor.
CANDIDATE FOR CITY OFFICE: Any person who seeks nomination for election,
election to or retention in any elected office of the city, whether or not such
person is elected. A person seeks nomination for election, election or
retention if he or she: a) takes the action necessary under the laws of the
state of Illinois to attempt to qualify for nomination for election, election
to or retention in public office, or b) receives contributions or makes
expenditures, or gives consent for any other person to receive contributions or
make expenditures with a view to bringing about his or her nomination for
election or election to or retention in such office. For purposes of this
definition, the term "expenditure" has the meaning ascribed to that term in
article 9 of the Illinois election code, 10 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/9-1 et
seq.
CITY: The city of Des Plaines.
CITY APPOINTEE: Any member of a board or commission of the city appointed or
approved to serve on that board or commission by the mayor or city council.
CITY CONTRACTOR: Any person or organization doing business with the city. This
definition shall include an entity and its subsidiaries, parent company, or
otherwise affiliated companies and affiliated subcontractors, and any of their
employees, officers, directors and partners who make a political contribution
for which they are reimbursed by a city contractor or affiliated subcontractor.
CITY OFFICIALS: The mayor, city clerk, eight (8) aldermen, department heads and
any person acting as a department head. For purposes of this chapter only,
"city officials" also includes the appointed members of the planning and zoning
board.
COMMITTEE OR POLITICAL COMMITTEE: As defined in article 9 of the Illinois
election code, as amended.
CONTRIBUTION: As defined in article 9 of the Illinois election code, as
amended.
DOING BUSINESS: Any one or any combination of sales, contracts, leases, or
purchases to, from, or with the city or any city agency in an amount in excess
of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
EMPLOYEE: Any individual compensated directly by the city in exchange for work
performed directly for the city (other than those employees covered in the
definition of "city officials" in this section) who, in the regular course of
his duties, assists and acts in a confidential capacity to persons who
formulate, determine and effectuate management policies with regard to city
business or who, in the regular course of his duties, has authorized access to
confidential information relating to the effectuation or review of the city's
policies.
EXPENDITURE: A payment, distribution, loan, advance, deposit or gift of money
or anything of value.
FINANCIAL INTEREST:
   A.   Any interest as a result of which the owner currently receives or is
entitled to receive in the future more than two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00) per year; or
   B.   Any interest with a cost or present value of five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) or more; or
   C.   Any interest representing more than ten percent (10%) of a corporation,
partnership, sole proprietorship, firm, enterprise, franchise, organization,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust or any legal entity
organized for profit; provided, however, financial interest shall not include:
      1.   Any publicly held stock traded on a recognized exchange;
      2.   The authorized compensation paid to an official or employee for his
office or employment;
      3.      Any economic benefit provided equally to all residents of the
city;
      4.   A time or demand deposit in a financial institution;
      5.   An endowment or insurance policy or annuity contract purchased from
an insurance company.
SEEKING TO DO BUSINESS:
   A.   Taking any action within the past six (6) months to obtain a contract
or business from the city when, if such action were successful, it would result
in the person's doing business with the city;
   B.   The contract or business sought has not been awarded to any person; or
   C.   Any matter that was pending before the city council in the six (6)
months prior to the date of the contribution if that matter involved the award
of loan funds, grant funds or bond proceeds, bond inducement ordinances,
leases, land sales, zoning matters, the creation of tax increment financing
districts, concession agreements or the establishment of a class 6(b) or
similar Cook County property tax classification. (Ord. M-28-16, 11-21-2016)
1-9-4: RESPONSIBILITIES OF PUBLIC OFFICE:
City officials and employees of the city are agents of public purpose and hold
office or are employed for the benefit of the public. They are bound to uphold
the constitution of the United States and the constitution of the state and to
carry out impartially the laws of the nation, state, and of the city, and thus
foster respect for all government. They are bound to observe in their official
acts the highest standards of morality and to discharge faithfully the duties
of their office regardless of personal considerations, recognizing that the
public interest must be their primary concern. Their conduct in both official
and private affairs should be above reproach. (Ord. M-15-95, 3-27-1995)
1-9-5: DISCLOSURE:
   A.   Statement Of Economic Interest: All city officials required to file a
statement of economic interest with the Cook County clerk shall file a copy of
that statement with the city clerk by May 1 of each year.
   B.   Disclosure And Abstention: Any city official or employee who has an
interest in any proposed contract, work, business or land use application with
the city shall publicly disclose the nature and extent of such interest and
shall not deliberate or vote on the matter in his official capacity. The same
restrictions shall apply to any city official or employee whose spouse has an
interest in any proposed contract, work, business or land use application with
the city.
   C.   Other Employment:
      1.   All city officials shall annually submit a signed and notarized
statement indicating all current employment and all employment for the previous
calendar year. Such statement shall include the name of the employing entity
and the nature of the services rendered in the course of employment.
      2.   The statement shall also disclose whether the city officials
directly or indirectly were associated with or employed by a corporation, sole
proprietorship or partnership which performs services for the city. (Ord. M-15-
07, 4-16-2007)
   D.   Current Address: Elected city officials, planning and zoning board
members, and department heads shall have the affirmative duty of notifying the
city clerk, by notarized statement in writing, of any change of address for
themselves. This affirmative duty may not be delegated to any other individual
or family member. Aldermen must reside in the ward they were elected to
represent for their entire term. (Ord. M-15-07, 4-16-2007; amd. Ord. Z-29-15,
10-5-2015)
   E.   Failure To File; Penalty: On or before March 15 of each year, the city
clerk shall notify the persons required to file disclosure statements of their
duty to do so and of the provisions of this section. Any person who takes
office or otherwise becomes required to file a statement of economic interests
within thirty (30) days prior to May 1 of any year may file his or her
statement at any time on or before May 31 without penalty. If such person fails
to file such statement by May 31, the city clerk shall, within seven (7) days
after May 31, notify such person by certified mail of his or her failure to
file by the specified date. Such person shall file his or her statement of
economic interests on or before June 15 with the city clerk together with a
fifteen dollar ($15.00) late filing fee. Any such person who fails to file by
June 15 shall be subject to a penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day
for each day from June 16 to the date of filing, which shall be in addition to
the fifteen dollar ($15.00) late filing fee specified above. Failure to file by
June 30 shall constitute abandonment of office pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5-3.1-10-50 and a forfeiture of office pursuant to 5 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 420/4A-105 et seq.
   F.   Appeals Process For Failure To File Ethics Statement: Any person who
fails to file within the requisite time as stated in subsection E of this
section, may file a written appeal with the city clerk stating the reasons for
their failure to timely file the ethics statement. The city council shall
conduct a hearing and enter such findings either absolving the person of the
penalty for failure to file or setting forth penalties within the parameters
allowed in subsection E of this section. The decision of the city council shall
constitute final administrative action pursuant to 735 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/3-101. (Ord. M-15-07, 4-16-2007)
1-9-6: CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
   A.   No city official shall engage in any business or transaction or shall
have a financial or other personal interest, direct or indirect, which is
incompatible with the proper discharge of his official duties or which may tend
to impair independence of judgment or action in the performance of official
duties. Personal as distinguished from financial interest includes an interest
arising from blood or marriage relationships or close business or political
association.
   B.   No city official shall engage in employment other than by the city
which will cause a conflict with or impair the proper discharge of official
duties. (Ord. M-15-95, 3-27-1995)
1-9-7: GIFTS AND FAVORS:
   A.   No city official or employee shall directly or indirectly solicit,
accept, or receive any valuable gift or benefit, whether in the form of money,
services, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing, or promise, or any
other form, under circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred that
the gift or benefit was intended as a reward for an official action or was
intended to influence the city official, or could reasonably be expected to
influence him in the performance of official duties.
   B.   Neither police nor fire charity functions are covered by this section
and are specifically exempted herefrom. (Ord. M-15-95, 3-27-1995)
1-9-8: ABUSE OF POSITION:
   A.   No city official shall use the prestige or power of his office or
employment for private gain or benefit, financial or otherwise, or for the
private gain or benefit, financial or otherwise, of another. All city officials
are also prohibited from using their positions to gain undue influence over
subordinates.
   B.   No city official shall request or permit the unauthorized use of city
owned vehicles, equipment, materials, or property for personal convenience or
profit or political purposes. (Ord. M-15-95, 3-27-1995)
1-9-9: CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION:
   A.   No city official or employee shall, without proper legal authorization,
disclose confidential information concerning the property, government or
affairs of the city. City officials and employees are prohibited from using
such confidential information to advance the financial or other private
interests of themselves or others. For purposes of this section, "confidential
information" means any information that may not be obtained pursuant to the
Illinois freedom of information act 1
. A list of items which comprise "confidential information" is made a part of
this chapter.
   B.   Any employee found to have knowingly violated any provisions of this
chapter shall be subject to employment sanctions, including discharge. (Ord. M-
15-95, 3-27-1995)
   C.   Any city official or member of the planning and zoning board found to
have knowingly violated any provision of this chapter shall be subject to such
penalty as may be determined by the city council within its authority to mete
out disciplinary measures. (Ord. M-15-95, 3-27-1995; amd. Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-
2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
1-9-10: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Any employee found to have knowingly violated any provision of this
chapter shall be subject to employment sanctions, including discharge, as
allowed by collective bargaining agreements and the city's personnel policy
manual as currently exists or may be amended from time to time. (Ord. M-17-07,
5-7-2007)
   B.   Any city official or member of the planning and zoning board found to
have knowingly violated any provision of this chapter shall be subject to such
penalty as may be determined by the city council within its authority to mete
out disciplinary measures. (Ord. M-17-07, 5-7-2007; amd. Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-
2015)
   C.   In addition to the foregoing, any person found by a court to be guilty
of violating any of the provisions of this chapter, upon conviction thereof
shall be punished by a fine as set out in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this title for each day of violation.
   D.   An ethics officer is hereby created who is hereby empowered to take any
written complaints of any violation of provisions of this chapter. The ethics
officer shall be entitled to investigate and make a written determination upon
the alleged ethical violation. The ethics officer may make any such
recommendations, as he or she may deem appropriate, to the corporate
authorities. The ethics officer shall be appointed by the city manager for a
term of one year and may be reappointed thereafter as the city manager deems
appropriate. (Ord. M-17-07, 5-7-2007)
1-9-11: CITY OF DES PLAINES EMPLOYMENT:
No city official or employee may collect payment from more than one employment
classification unless such person is appointed to an acting, interim or
temporary position requiring additional duties. (Ord. M-15-95, 3-27-1995)
1-9-12: POLITICAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Political Activity:
      1.   No city official or employee shall use the prestige or power of his
position on behalf of any city political party or for any political purposes in
a city campaign.
      2.   No city official or employee may conduct political activities while
on city time, or may use city equipment or facilities to campaign for any
candidate for any office. All political activity, if any, must be conducted on
one's own time after or before scheduled work hours.
      3.   Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary, a
limited exception to the foregoing is created for candidate forums held in city
hall. To be an exception, such forums must be sponsored by outside nonpartisan
or bipartisan groups for the purpose of allowing the public to meet and greet
candidates or hear them in a public forum to discuss campaign issues.
Invitations should be sent to all candidates on the ballot for city offices,
unless a separate forum is held for mayoral or clerk candidates, in which case
all candidates for that office shall be invited. Such candidates are
specifically allowed to bring campaign materials to city hall to supply
information to the citizens attending the forum. The forum shall not be
utilized by candidates for distribution of large quantities of campaign
literature, brochures or materials.
      4.   City staff may post notice through government access, cable, press
release, website, or other electronic means of such meetings. (Ord. M-17-09, 3-
16-2009)
   B.   Political Contributions:
      1.   No candidate for elected city office during a single candidacy, no
elected official of the city during any reporting year of his or her term, and
no official or employee of the city who is seeking election to any other
office, may solicit or accept cash or in-kind contributions from any: a) city
contractor who has done business with the city within the current or any of the
preceding four (4) reporting years, b) city appointee, or c) any person or
organization seeking to do business with the city.
      2.   No city contractor who has done business with the city within the
current or any of the preceding four (4) reporting years, city appointee, or
any other person or organization seeking to do business with the city shall
make cash or in- kind contributions to: a) any candidate for city office during
a single candidacy; b) an elected official of the city during any reporting
year of his or her term; or c) any official or employee of the city who is
seeking election to any other office.
      3.   For purposes of this section, all contributions to a candidate's
authorized political committees shall be considered contributions to the
candidate; and a reporting year shall be from January 1 to December 31.
      4.   Any person who solicits, accepts, or makes a financial contribution
that violates the provisions of this section shall be subject to the penalties
provided in subsections B5 and B6 of this section; provided, however, such
person shall not be deemed in violation of this section if such person returns
or requests in writing the return of such financial contribution within ten
(10) calendar days of the recipient's or contributor's knowledge of the
violation.
      5.   Any person who knowingly makes, solicits, or accepts a political
contribution in violation of this section shall be subject to a fine of not
less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and up to the higher of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or three (3) times the amount of the improper
contribution that was accepted for each violation of this section and any such
contribution shall be returned.
      6.   Any city contractor or person or organization seeking to do business
with the city who violates any of the provisions of this section shall be
disqualified from serving as a city contractor for a period of twelve (12)
months after the violation determination.
      7.   The provisions of this section shall apply to contributions made or
accepted on or after November 21, 2016, being the effective date hereof,
adopting amendments to this section. (Ord. M-28-16, 11-21-2016)
1-9-13: REPRESENTATION BEFORE CITY BODIES OR COURTS:
   A.   No city official or employee who is an attorney licensed to practice
law in the state shall represent any private interests before any city body or
in any action or proceeding against the interests of the city in any matter in
which the city is or could become a party. (Ord. M-60-95, 12-4-1995)
   B.   No city official or employee shall accept a retainer or compensation
that is contingent upon a specific action by a city body.
   C.   In the course of his duties, a city official or employee may appear on
behalf of constituents as a representative of the electorate or in the
performance of public or civic obligation as long as the city official receives
no compensation. Also, a city official may appear on behalf of himself, his
spouse, or minor children before any city body, administrative body, or court
of law. (Ord. M-15-95, 3-27-1995)
1-9-14: POSTCITY EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Former city officials are permanently barred from representing any
private entity before the city after leaving city employment regarding any
matter he participated in as a city official. Former city officials are barred
from representing any private entity before the city for a period of twelve
(12) months after their employment terminates.
   B.   All city officials are prohibited from negotiating future employment
with any person or entity who has a matter pending before the city official or
body of which the city official is a member. (Ord. M-15-95, 3-27-1995)
1-9-15: VALIDITY OF CONTRACT:
Any contract negotiated, entered into, or performed in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be voidable by the city. (Ord. M-15-95, 3-27-
1995)
1-9-16: INVALID ACTIONS:
   A.   All city contracts shall include a provision requiring compliance with
this chapter.
   B.   Any contracts negotiated, entered into, or performed in violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be voidable by the city.
   C.   Any permit, license, ruling, determination or other official action of
a city agency applied for or in any other manner sought, obtained or undertaken
in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, shall be invalid and
without any force or effect whatsoever. (Ord. M-15-95, 3-27-1995)
1-9-17: OTHER REMEDIES:
Nothing in this chapter shall preclude the city from maintaining an action for
an accounting for any pecuniary benefit received by any person in violation of
this chapter or other law, or to recover damages for violation of this chapter.
(Ord. M-15-95,
1-9-18: SEXUAL HARASSMENT TRAINING, REPORTING AND INVESTIGATION:
Elected city officials shall complete an annual training program designated by
the City concerning the prevention of discrimination and harassment, including
sexual harassment. Allegations of sexual harassment by an elected city official
by another elected city official shall be reported to the ethics officer, who
will provide for the conducting of an independent review of any such
allegations. (Ord. M-4-20, 2-3-2020)
CHAPTER 10
PURCHASING POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
1-10-1: General
1-10-2: Competitive Bidding
1-10-3: Purchasing Authority And Contract Award
1-10-4: Rejection Of Bid Proposals
1-10-5: Performance And Payment Bonds
1-10-1: GENERAL:
   A.   Compliance With Chapter And Purchasing Policy: The procurement and
purchase of all personal property, services, and work by or on behalf of the
city must comply with the all of the provisions of this chapter and of chapter
VII of the city of Des Plaines "Financial Policy And Procedure Manual"
("purchasing policy"). In the event of a conflict between a provision of this
chapter and a provision of the purchasing policy, this chapter will control.
   B.   Amendment Of Purchasing Policy: The city manager or his designee is
authorized to amend the purchasing policy from time to time, so long as the
provisions of the amendments to the purchasing policy do not conflict with any
provision of this chapter.
   C.   Administration And Enforcement Of Purchasing Policies And Procedures:
The city director of finance is responsible for administering and enforcing all
of the provisions of this chapter and of the purchasing policy.
   D.   Appropriation Of Funds: All purchases of personal property, services,
and work by or on behalf of the city must correspond to funds appropriated and
budgeted by the city council for the fiscal year in which the purchase is made;
provided, however, that the city may enter into multiyear contracts for the
purchase of personal property, services, and work if the purchases contemplated
in future fiscal years are expressly subject to, and contingent upon, the
appropriation of funds by the city council for those purchases during the
fiscal year in which the purchases are contemplated. (Ord. M-9-15, 4-6-2015)
1-10-2: COMPETITIVE BIDDING:
   A.   When Required; Process: Except as provided in the purchasing policy,
all purchases of personal property, services, and work that may exceed the
amount of twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000) must be procured through
competitive bidding in accordance with the procedures set forth in the
purchasing policy. Public notice of all invitations to bid must be published at
least once in a newspaper of general circulation within the city at least ten
(10) days before the date that all bids must be submitted to the city. The city
council must award all contracts procured through competitive bidding to the
lowest responsible bidder or the bidder whom the city council determines is in
the best interest of the city.
   B.   Responsible Bidder For Certain Construction Contracts: A bidder on a
construction contract that exceeds the amount of twenty five thousand dollars
($25,000.00) will not be deemed to be a responsible bidder unless the bidder
satisfies all of the following standards:
      1.   The bidder complies, and agrees to comply in the future, with all
applicable laws prerequisite to doing business in the state of Illinois;
      2.   The bidder provides the city with evidence acceptable to the city
of:
         a.   The bidder's federal employee tax identification number or social
security number (for individuals); and
         b.   Compliance with section 2000(e) of chapter 21 of title 42 of the
United States Code and federal executive order 11246, as amended by federal
executive order 11375 (known as the "equal opportunity employer provisions");
      3.   The bidder provides to the city certificates of insurance acceptable
to the city evidencing the following coverages: general liability, workers'
compensation, completed operations, automobile, hazardous occupation, product
liability, and professional liability;
      4.   The bidder complies, and agrees to comply in the future, with all
provisions of the Illinois prevailing wage act, 820 Illinois Compiled Statutes
130/0.01 et seq.; and
      5.   The bidder actively participates, and has actively participated for
at least 12 months before the date of the bid opening, in apprenticeship and
training programs approved and registered with the United States department of
labor bureau of apprenticeship and training for each of the trades of work
contemplated under the awarded contract for all bidders and subcontractors. For
the purposes of this subsection, a bidder or subcontractor is considered an
active participant in an apprenticeship and training program if all eligible
employees have either: (i) completed such a program, or (ii) were enrolled in
such a program prior to the solicitation date and are currently participating
in such program. (Ord. M-9-15, 4-6-2015; amd. Ord. M-7-20, 5-4-2020; Ord. M-37-
22, 12-5-2022)
1-10-3: PURCHASING AUTHORITY AND CONTRACT AWARD:
   A.   City Manager: The city manager or his designee may authorize and award
all contracts for purchases of personal property, services, and work that do
not exceed the amount of $25,000.00.
   B.   City Council: The city council must authorize and award, by resolution
duly adopted, all contracts for purchases of personal property, services, and
work that: 1) exceed the amount of $25,000.00, or 2) have not been authorized
by the city manager. (Ord. M-9-15, 4-6-2015; amd. Ord. M-37-22, 12-5-2022)
1-10-4: REJECTION OF BID PROPOSALS:
   A.   The city manager is authorized to reject any bid submitted in response
to an invitation to bid issued by the city pursuant to the city's competitive
bidding process if:
      1.   The bidder has defaulted: a) on the payment of taxes, licenses, or
other monies due to the city, or b) in the performance of any existing or
previous contract with the city; or
      2.   The bid submitted is nonresponsive, incomplete, or improperly
prepared or executed.
   B.   Except as provided in subsection A of this section, the city council
has the exclusive authority to reject bids submitted in response to an
invitation to bid issued by the city pursuant to the city's competitive bidding
process. (Ord. M-9-15, 4-6-2015)
1-10-5: PERFORMANCE AND PAYMENT BONDS:
   A.   All bidders selected by the city to perform construction work that is
subject to the Illinois public construction bond act, 30 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 550/0.01 et seq., must, before the commencement of any work, submit to
the city a performance bond and a labor and material payment bond that each
comply with the requirements of the Illinois public construction bond act, as
this act may be amended from time to time.
   B.   All other bidders, vendors, contractors, and consultants selected by
the city must, before commencing performance under any contract with the city,
submit to the city a performance security and a labor and material payment
security if and when required by, and in accordance with, the purchasing
policy. (Ord. M-9-15, 4-6-2015)
CHAPTER 11
CITY ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-11-1: Election Wards
1-11-2: Interpretation Of Ward Boundaries
1-11-1: ELECTION WARDS:
   A.   Wards. For the purpose of all elections and referenda held in the city
of Des Plaines, the city shall be and is hereby divided into eight wards with
the locations and boundaries shown on the ward map entitled "City of Des
Plaines Ward Map", which Map was adopted and approved by the City Council
pursuant to Ordinance No. M-17-22, and which Map is, by reference, incorporated
as part of this code.
   B.   Maintenance and Availability of Official Ward Map: The official copy of
the City of Des Plaines Ward Map shall be maintained by the City Clerk and
shall be made available for public inspection during city business hours at the
Office of the City Clerk and shall also be published on the City's website.
(Ord. M-30-12, 9-17-2012; amd. Ord. M-17-22, 5-16-2022)
1-11-2: INTERPRETATION OF WARD BOUNDARIES:
   A.   Any part of the city that has not been included in one of the wards on
the City of Des Plaines Ward Map described in this chapter is included within
the ward that: 1) is contiguous to the part; and 2) contains the least
population of all wards contiguous to the part according to the 2020 decennial
census.
   B.   If any uncertainty exists with respect to the intended boundaries of
the wards shown on the City of Des Plaines Ward Map described in this chapter,
the following rules will apply:
      1.   The ward boundaries are the centerlines of highways, streets,
alleys, waterways, railroads, and other rights of way unless otherwise
indicated. When the designation of a boundary line on the Ward Map coincides
with the location of any right of way, the centerline of the right of way will
be construed to be the boundary of the ward;
      2.   When a ward boundary does not coincide with the location of the
centerline of any right of way but does coincide with a lot line, such lot line
shall be construed to be the boundary of the ward. (Ord. M-30-12, 9-17-2012;
amd. Ord. M-17-22, 5-16-2022)
CHAPTER 12
CITY PROPERTIES
SECTION:
1-12-1: Corporate Limits
1-12-2: City Seal
1-12-3: City Datum
1-12-4: Disposition Of Public Personal Property
1-12-5: Disposition Of Interest In Real Property
1-12-1: CORPORATE LIMITS:
The corporate limits of the city shall be as provided on the latest official
map on file in the office of the city clerk. (1963 Code; amd. 2002 Code)
1-12-2: CITY SEAL:
The seal heretofore provided and used by and for the city, circular in form,
one and three-fourths inches (13/4") in diameter, the impression on which are
the words STATE OF ILLINOIS, COOK COUNTY, around the outer edge, and the words
CITY SEAL, DES PLAINES, in the central part thereof, shall be and is hereby
established and declared to be the official seal of the city, and shall remain
in the custody and control of the city clerk, to be used by him as required by
law and the provisions of this code. (Ch. 6 Art. V, 1956 Code)
1-12-3: CITY DATUM:
The base or datum for the levels of the city shall be and the same is the mark
set by the United States geological survey and shown on a standard tablet four
feet (4') above concrete foundation of the six (6) story municipal building,
two hundred fifty nine feet (259') southeasterly of Graceland Avenue, thirteen
and four-tenths feet (13.4') northeasterly of the public walk on Miner Street
in the northwest face of said building. The mark is six hundred forty six and
sixteen-hundredths feet (646.16') above mean sea level. (2002 Code)
1-12-4: DISPOSITION OF PUBLIC PERSONAL PROPERTY:
   A.   The city manager may dispose of any personal property, including
materials, supplies and equipment, owned by the city with a current estimated
value equal to or less than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) that, in the
city manager's determination, is no longer necessary or useful to the city in
the manner that provides the greatest economic value to the city. If the city
manager determines that the personal property has no economic value, he may
dispose of the personal property in the most efficient manner possible.
   B.   The city council may dispose of any personal property, including
materials, supplies and equipment, owned by the city with a current estimated
value greater than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) that, in the city
council's determination, is no longer necessary or useful to the city by
ordinance duly adopted. The ordinance may direct a specific method of disposal
or grant the city manager the authority to dispose of the surplus property by
any manner the city manager determines will provide the greatest economic value
to the city.
   C.   The city council may authorize the donation of any personal property,
including materials, supplies and equipment, owned by the city that, in the
city council's determination, is no longer necessary or useful to the city by
ordinance duly adopted. (Ord. M-9-15, 4-6-2015)
1-12-5: DISPOSITION OF INTEREST IN REAL PROPERTY:
   A.   Disposition Of Property: Whenever the corporate authorities determine
that real property or an interest in real property is no longer necessary,
appropriate, required for the use of, profitable to or for the best interests
of the city, they may dispose of and convey said real property or an interest
therein by the passage of an ordinance passed by the affirmative vote of at
least a majority of the corporate authorities then holding office. The vote
shall be taken by ayes and nays and entered upon the record.
   B.   Terms Of Disposition: The ordinance shall establish the consideration
to be paid for said real property or interest therein, shall specify the
purchaser thereof as determined by the corporate authorities and shall specify
such conditions with respect to further use as the corporate authorities may
deem necessary and desirable to the public interest.
   C.   Deed: When the ordinance has been adopted and the consideration paid
the mayor and the city clerk shall convey the real estate or interest therein
and transfer it by proper deed of conveyance with the seal of the city. (Ord.
M-9-76, 4-19-1976)
CHAPTER 13
EMERGENCY TELEPHONE ANSWERING SYSTEM - 911
SECTION:
1-13-1: Authority
1-13-2: Purpose
1-13-3: Availability
1-13-4: Administration
1-13-5: Funding
1-13-6: Reserved
1-13-7: Reserved
1-13-8: Reserved
1-13-9: Reserved
1-13-10: Reserved
1-13-11: Severability
1-13-1: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is enacted under the authority of the Emergency Telephone System
Act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 750/0.01 et seq. (Ord. M-10-17, 5-1-2017)
1-13-2: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted for the purpose of authorizing the operations of
emergency telephone answering system. The intent of this system is to allow any
telephone located within the City of Des Plaines and connected to the public
telephone network access to emergency services by dialing the numbers 9-1-1.
(Ord. M-10-17, 5-1-2017; amd. Ord. M-21-24, 10-21-2024)
1-13-3: AVAILABILITY:
The features offered by the emergency telephone answering system shall be
available twenty four (24) hours per day, seven (7) days per week. (Ord. M-10-
17, 5-1-2017)
1-13-4: ADMINISTRATION:
The city's emergency telephone answering system may be administered by an
intergovernmental agreement with any agency authorized by the Illinois Commerce
Commission to operate an emergency telephone system and an emergency telephone
system. (Ord. M-10-17, 5-1-2017; amd. Ord. M-21-24, 10-21-2024)
1-13-5: FUNDING:
If authorized by 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 750/15.3, the City of Des
Plaines shall impose a surcharge on monthly billed subscribers of
telecommunication carriers at a rate per network connection in order to
implement and maintain a 9-1-1 emergency telephone system.
A surcharge is hereby imposed on monthly billed subscribers of
telecommunications carriers residing within the corporate limits of the City at
a rate of zero dollars ($0.00) per month, per network connection. Said
surcharge shall be collected by the telecommunications carriers. For purposes
of computing the surcharge imposed, the network connections to which the
surcharge shall apply shall be those in-service network connections, other than
those network connections assigned to the City, where the subscriber service
address for each such network connection(s) is located within the corporate
limits of the City. (Ord. M-10-17, 5-1-2017)
1-13-6: RESERVED:
(Ord. M-10-17, 5-1-2017)
1-13-7: RESERVED:
(Ord. M-10-17, 5-1-2017)
1-13-8: RESERVED:
(Ord. M-10-17, 5-1-2017)
1-13-9: RESERVED:
(Ord. M-10-17, 5-1-2017)
1-13-10: RESERVED:
(Ord. M-10-17, 5-1-2017)
1-13-11: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, provision or portion of this chapter shall be adjudged invalid
by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not
be affected thereby. (Ord. M-10-17, 5-1-2017)
CHAPTER 14
STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT
SECTION:
1-14-1: Regulations
1-14-1: REGULATIONS:
   A.   The regulations of section 5-15 1
and article 10
 2
of the state officials and employees ethics act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes
430/1-1 et seq., (hereinafter referred to as the "act" in this section) are
hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the officers and employees
of the city to the extent required by 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5.
   B.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the act, by any officer or any employee of the city, is hereby
prohibited.
   C.   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the city under the act, is hereby prohibited.
   D.   The participation in political activities prohibited under the act, by
any officer or employee of the city, is hereby prohibited.
   E.   For purposes of this section, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall
be defined as set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(c).
   F.   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as those
penalties set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for similar
violations of the act.
   G.   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of city officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
70-5(a).
   H.   Any amendment to the act that becomes effective after the effective
date hereof shall be incorporated into this section by reference and shall be
applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of gifts and to
prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes its
provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated
into this section by reference without formal action by the corporate
authorities of the city.
   I.   If the Illinois supreme court declares the act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
supreme court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the city if the act is found unconstitutional by
the Illinois supreme court.
   J.   If the Illinois supreme court declares part of the act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the act, or does not
address the remainder of the act, then the remainder of the act as adopted by
this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
section relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the city. (Ord.
M-33-04, 5-17-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/5-15.
2 2. 5 ILCS 430/10-10 – 10-40.
CHAPTER 15
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS
AND RESPONSIBILITIES
SECTION:
1-15-1: Title
1-15-2: Scope
1-15-3: Definitions
1-15-4: Notices
1-15-5: Late Payment
1-15-6: Payment
1-15-7: Certain Credits And Refunds
1-15-8: Audit Procedure
1-15-9: Appeal
1-15-10: Hearing
1-15-11: Interest And Penalties
1-15-12: Abatement
1-15-13: Installment Contracts
1-15-14: Statute Of Limitations
1-15-15: Voluntary Disclosure
1-15-16: Publication Of Tax Ordinances
1-15-17: Liens
1-15-18: Application
1-15-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the LOCALLY IMPOSED AND
ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY ORDINANCE. (Ord. M-81-00, 12-18-
2000)
1-15-2: SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the city's procedures in
connection with all of the city's locally imposed and administered taxes. (Ord.
M-81-00, 12-18-2000)
1-15-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them as
follows:
ACT: The local government taxpayers' bill of rights act.
CITY: The city of Des Plaines, Illinois.
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The city's mayor and city council.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The city's director of finance and administrative
services is charged with the administration and collection of the locally
imposed and administered taxes, including staff, employees or agents to the
extent they are authorized by the local tax administrator to act in the local
tax administrator's stead. The local tax administrator shall have the authority
to implement the terms of this chapter to give full effect to this chapter. The
exercise of such authority by the local tax administrator shall not be
inconsistent with this chapter and the act.
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the city that
is collected or administered by the city not an agency or department of the
state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
property tax code or fees collected by the city other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the city's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the city that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered tax
and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is
placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
city. (Ord. M-81-00, 12-18-2000)
1-15-4: NOTICES:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the
day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the local
tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as
follows:
   A.   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address, or
   B.   Personal service or delivery. (Ord. M-81-00, 12-18-2000)
1-15-5: LATE PAYMENT:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the city
pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: a)
physically received by the city on or before the due date, or b) received in an
envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated on
or before the due date, properly addressed to the city with adequate postage
prepaid. (Ord. M-81-00, 12-18-2000)
1-15-6: PAYMENT:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: a) first to the tax due for the applicable period; b) second
to the interest due for the applicable period; and c) third to the penalty for
the applicable period. (Ord. M-81-00, 12-18-2000)
1-15-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   A.   The city shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid without
written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally imposed and
administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional by a court
of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed to have paid
the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts upon which to
protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid the taxes
under duress.
   B.   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
four (4) or less years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in
error was made. The city shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed
and administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the city.
   C.   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
         d.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the city.
      2.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the local tax administrator
of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of three percent (3%) per annum, based
on a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days
elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund
check or the grant of a credit. (Ord. M-81-00, 12-18-2000)
1-15-8: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this chapter.
   A.   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   B.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within thirty
(30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal business
hours.
   C.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the local tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the
event the taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question,
the taxpayer may request another date within the thirty (30) days, approved in
writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   D.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer's
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the city.
   E.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the city. If the taxpayer fails to
provide the documents necessary for audit within the time provided, the local
tax administrator may issue a tax determination and assessment based on the tax
administrator's determination of the best estimate of the taxpayer's tax
liability.
   F.   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within forty five (45)
days of the city's determination of the amount of overpayment.
   G.   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax. (Ord. M-81-00, 12-18-2000)
1-15-9: APPEAL:
   A.   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local tax administrator's issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      4.   The obligations of the city during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   B.   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax administrator
of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the local tax
administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting forth the
basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written protest and petition
for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within forty five
(45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   C.   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the local
tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written protest and petition for
hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   D.   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
forty five (45) day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall
become a final bill due and owing without further notice.
   E.   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than ninety (90) days after the expiration of the forty five
(45) day period. (Ord. M-81-00, 12-18-2000)
1-15-10: HEARING:
   A.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under section
1-15-9 of this chapter, the local tax administrator shall conduct a hearing
regarding any appeal.
   B.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance is
absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of preparation
shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted shall not
exceed fourteen (14) days.
   C.   At the hearing the local tax administrator shall preside and shall hear
testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit or
assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   D.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision. (Ord. M-81-00, 12-18-2000)
1-15-11: INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing, through
audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the time
frame otherwise indicated.
   A.   Interest: The city hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be one
percent (1%) per month, based on a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days
and the number of days elapsed.
   B.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be shown as due
on a return shall be imposed, and a late payment penalty of five percent (5%)
of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or
manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the city issuing
a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file
penalty shall be assessed equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the total tax
due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was required to be
filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a failure to file
penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance. (Ord. M-81-00, 12-18-2000)
1-15-12: ABATEMENT:
The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any late
filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the local
tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or failure
to make a filing. (Ord. M-81-00, 12-18-2000)
1-15-13: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The city may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) business days to cure any delinquency. If the
taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen (14) day period or
fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with
the local administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without
further notice to the taxpayer. (Ord. M-81-00, 12-18-2000)
1-15-14: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
The city, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax returns in
a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due and owing.
The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice of the
reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still
due and owing.
   A.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years maximum after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   B.   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the city
the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due, the
statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed.
   C.   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer. (Ord. M-81-00, 12-18-2000)
1-15-15: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure
application may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for
any period before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer
incorrectly determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is
liable for the underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid
tax, unless the underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the
taxpayer, in which case the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The
payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days
after the filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to
by the local tax administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord. M-81-00, 12-18-
2000)
1-15-16: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the city
clerk's office. (Ord. M-81-00, 12-18-2000)
1-15-17: LIENS:
The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at the city's expense;
   B.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   C.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (Ord. M-
81-00, 12-18-2000)
1-15-18: APPLICATION:
This chapter shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of
the city's tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in conflict
with or inconsistent with this chapter, this chapter shall be controlling.
(Ord. M-81-00, 12-18-2000)
CHAPTER 16
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS PROGRAM
SECTION:
1-16-1: Creation And Purpose
1-16-2: Jurisdiction
1-16-3: Division Of Administrative Hearings
1-16-4: Division Administrator; Powers And Duties
1-16-5: Administrative Hearing Officer
1-16-6: Rules And Regulations
1-16-7: Authorization To Issue Administrative Citations
1-16-8: Notice Of Violation
1-16-9: Service Of Violation Notice
1-16-10: Subpoenas
1-16-11: Representation At Hearings
1-16-12: Conduct Of Hearings
1-16-13: Testimony And Evidence
1-16-14: Orders
1-16-15: Fines
1-16-16: Administrative Hearing Program Procedures Not Exclusive
1-16-17: Appeal
1-16-1: CREATION AND PURPOSE:
   A.   There is hereby established an administrative hearings system which is
authorized to conduct administrative hearings on citations charging violations
of municipal ordinances of the city of Des Plaines.
   B.   The city adopts the following Illinois Compiled Statutes: 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1-2.1-1 et seq., 5/1-2.2-1 et seq., 5/11/31.1-1 et seq.;
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-201 et seq., as it may be amended from time
to time. In the event of a conflict between said statutes and this chapter,
this chapter shall prevail. (Ord. M-101-07, 12-17-2007; amd. Ord. M-22-08, 6-
16-2008)
1-16-2: JURISDICTION:
Matters subject to the administrative hearings system provided for by this code
are charges of violation of any ordinance (alternatively, "city code", "code")
of the city of Des Plaines so long as the charge is not a "moving traffic
violation", the relief sought is not a penalty of incarceration or a fine in
excess of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), excluding allowable costs. The
maximum monetary fine under section
1-16-5 of this chapter shall be exclusive of costs of enforcement or costs
imposed to secure compliance with the municipality's ordinances and shall not
be applicable to cases to enforce the collection of any tax imposed and
collected by the municipality.
Whenever a provision of this code authorizes a city official or employee to
institute a court proceeding or seek an order from a judge regarding the
violation of a city ordinance, the official or employee is also authorized to
institute an administrative hearing in the administrative hearings program in
accordance with the rules herein set forth. (Ord. M-5-09, 2-2-2009)
1-16-3: DIVISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS:
There is hereby established within the city attorney's office, a division of
administrative hearings, the function of which is to expedite the prosecution
and/or correction of code violations subject to the jurisdiction of the
administrative hearings system. The division is authorized to conduct and
manage administrative hearing proceedings in the manner provided for in this
code. The division will consist of a division administrator and such other
persons as the city manager appoints to assist with the administrative hearing
system provided for in this code. (Ord. M-101-07, 12-17-2007; amd. Ord. M-22-
08, 6-16-2008)
1-16-4: DIVISION ADMINISTRATOR; POWERS AND DUTIES:
The city attorney or his designee shall be the division administrator. The
division administrator's responsibilities shall include:
   A.   Operating and managing the administrative hearing system;
   B.   Recommending the appointment and removal of administrative hearing
officers, as necessary;
   C.   Promulgating rules and regulations in the conduct of administrative
hearing proceedings. (Ord. M-101-07, 12-17-2007; amd. Ord. M-22-08, 6-16-2008)
1-16-5: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING OFFICER:
   A.   Creation And Qualifications: The position of administrative hearing
officer is hereby created. The administrative hearing officer shall be
appointed by the mayor with the consent of the city council. The term of the
administrative hearing officer shall be one year. The number of administrative
hearing officer positions and compensation shall be approved by the city
council. The administrative hearing officer shall be an attorney admitted to
the practice of law in the state of Illinois with at least three (3) years of
active practice experience. Prior to conducting administrative hearings,
administrative hearing officers shall have successfully completed a formal
training program as set forth in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2.1-4(c).
   B.   Powers: The administrative hearing officer shall have all powers
necessary to conduct fair and impartial hearings including, but not limited to,
the power to:
      1.   Hold conferences for the settlement or simplification of the issues;
      2.   Administer oaths and affirmations;
      3.   Hear testimony;
      4.   Issue subpoenas;
      5.   Rule upon motions, objections, and the admissibility of evidence;
      6.   At the request of any party or on the administrative hearing
officer's own motion, subpoena the attendance of relevant witnesses and the
production of relevant books, records, or other information;
      7.   Preserve and authenticate the record of the hearing and all exhibits
and evidence introduced at the hearing;
      8.   Regulate the course of the hearing in accordance with this chapter,
or other applicable law;
      9.   Issue a final order which includes findings of fact and conclusions
of law;
      10.   Impose penalties and fines, per violation per day to a maximum of
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) exclusive of costs as set forth in section
1-16-2 of this chapter, issue orders that are consistent with applicable code
provisions and assess costs upon finding a party liable for the charged
violation. In no event shall an administrative hearing officer have the
authority to impose a penalty of imprisonment. (Ord. M-5-09, 2-2-2009)
1-16-6: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The rules and regulations promulgated for the conduct of administrative
adjudication hearings shall be published and kept on file in the office of the
city clerk where they shall be available to the public for inspection and
copying at nominal rates during normal business hours. (Ord. M-101-07, 12-17-
2007; amd. Ord. M-22-08, 6-16-2008)
1-16-7: AUTHORIZATION TO ISSUE ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS:
The following departments and department personnel are hereby authorized to
issue administrative citations in accordance with this chapter:
   A.   Police Department: All sworn police personnel, community service
officers, and citizens on patrol are hereby authorized to issue administrative
hearing citations for violations of the following provisions of this code:
Title 4, "Business Regulations", in its entirety.
Title 5, "Public Health And Safety", in its entirety.
Title 6, "Police Regulations", in its entirety.
Title 7, "Motor Vehicles And Traffic", in its entirety.
Title 8, "Public Ways And Property", in its entirety.
Title 10, "Construction Regulations", in its entirety.
Said administrative hearing citations shall be issued in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
The traffic compliance administrator is hereby authorized to issue red light
violation notice citations in accordance with the provisions of
title 7, chapter 12 of this code. (Ord. M-69-14, 12-1-2014)
   B.   Community Development: All building officials, building inspectors,
housing inspectors, sanitarians and the senior clerk in charge of business
licensing are hereby authorized to issue administrative hearing citations for
violations of the following provisions of this code:
Title 4, "Business Regulations", in its entirety.
Title 5, "Public Health And Safety", in its entirety.
Title 6, chapter 1, "Animal Control".
Title 6, chapter 1, article A, "Dogs And Cats".
Title 8, "Public Ways And Property", in its entirety.
Title 10, "Construction Regulations", in its entirety.
Title 13, chapter 1, "General Subdivision Provisions", in its entirety.
Title 13, chapter 2, "Procedures And Plats", in its entirety.
Title 14, "Flood Control", in its entirety.
Said administrative hearing citations shall be issued in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. M-68-11, 1-3-2012; amd. Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-
2014)
   C.   Finance Department: The director of the finance department and the
assistant director of the finance department are hereby authorized to issue
administrative hearing citations for violations of the following provisions of
this code:
Title 4, "Business Regulations".
Title 5, chapter 2, "Solid Waste, Recyclable Materials, Yard Waste, And
Composting".
Said administrative hearing citations shall be issued in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. M-68-11, 1-3-2012; amd. Ord. M-4-14, 2-3-
2014)
   D.   Consumer Protection Commission: The chairman of the consumer protection
commission is hereby authorized to issue administrative hearing citations for
violations of the following provision of this code:
Title 2, chapter 11, "Consumer Protection Commission".
Said administrative hearing citations shall be issued in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. M-5-09, 2-2-2009)
   E.   Fire Department/Fire Prevention Bureau: All sworn fire personnel are
hereby authorized to issue administrative hearing citations for violations of
the following provision of this code:
Title 10, chapter 3, "Fire Code", in its entirety.
Said administrative hearing citations shall be issued in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. M-69-14, 12-1-2014)
   F.   Department Of Public Works And Engineering: The director of public
works and engineering, the assistant director of public works and engineering,
and civil engineers are hereby authorized to issue administrative hearing
citations for violations of the following provisions of this code:
Title 8, "Public Ways And Property", in its entirety.
Title 9, "Public Utilities", in its entirety.
Title 10, "Construction Regulations", in its entirety.
Title 13, "Subdivision Regulations", in its entirety.
Title 14, "Flood Control", in its entirety.
Said administrative hearing citations shall be issued in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. M-68-11, 1-3-2012; amd. Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-
2014)
1-16-8: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
A violation notice specifying the date, time and place of the violation, the
ordinance or ordinances violated, and the identification and signature of the
person issuing the violation notice. In addition, the notice shall include the
date and location of the hearing, the legal authority and jurisdiction under
which the hearing is to be held, and the penalties for failure to appear at the
hearing. (Ord. M-101-07, 12-17-2007; amd. Ord. M-22-08, 6-16-2008)
1-16-9: SERVICE OF VIOLATION NOTICE:
Service of parking, standing, or compliance violation notice shall be effected
either by affixing the original or a facsimile of the notice to an unlawfully
parked vehicle or by handing the notice to the operator of a vehicle if he or
she is present. A parking, standing, or compliance violation notice issued,
signed and served in accordance with this chapter, or a copy of the notice,
shall be prima facie evidence of the correctness of the facts shown on the
notice. The notice or copy shall be admissible in any subsequent administrative
or legal proceedings without foundation or authentication.
The lessee of a leased vehicle shall be served in the same manner as service on
the owner and/or operator of the vehicle, and shall have the right to
participate in the administrative hearing to contest the violation as set forth
in this chapter.
Service of all other violation notices shall be in a matter reasonably
calculated to give them actual notice, including, as appropriate, personal
service of process upon a party or its employees or agents; service by mail at
a party's address; or service by posting notice on the property where the
violation is found. The signed violation notice, or a copy thereof if the
original is unavailable, shall be admissible without foundation or
authentication in any administrative or legal proceeding, and shall be prima
facie evidence of the correctness of the facts shown in the violation notice.
(Ord. M-101-07, 12-17-2007; amd. Ord. M-22-08, 6-16-2008)
1-16-10: SUBPOENAS:
   A.   Issuance: An administrative hearing officer may issue a subpoena only
if he or she determines that the testimony of the witnesses or the documents or
items sought by the subpoena are necessary to present evidence that is relevant
to the case and relates to a contested issue in the case.
   B.   Content: A subpoena issued under this chapter shall identify:
      1.   The person to whom it is directed;
      2.   The documents or other items sought by the subpoena, if any;
      3.   The date for the appearance of the witness and the production of the
documents or other items described in the subpoena;
      4.   The time for the appearance of the witness and the production of the
documents or other items described in the subpoena; and
      5.   The place for the appearance of the witness and the production of
the documents or other items described in the subpoena.
   C.   Appearance: In no event shall the date identified for the appearance of
a witness or the production of documents or other items be less than seven (7)
days after service of the subpoena.
   D.   Contesting The Subpoena: Within three (3) business days of being served
with a subpoena issued in accordance with this chapter, the recipient of the
subpoena may contest the order authorizing the issuance of the subpoena to the
administrative hearing officer, setting forth in detail the recipient's
objections to the subpoena. Upon receipt of the contest to the subpoena, the
administrative hearing officer shall review the objections and, upon review,
enter the appropriate order. (Ord. M-101-07, 12-17-2007; amd. Ord. M-22-08, 6-
16-2008)
1-16-11: REPRESENTATION AT HEARINGS:
   A.   City Representation: The case for the city may be presented by the city
attorney, assistant city attorney or by an attorney designated by the city
attorney.
   B.   Respondent Representation: The case for the respondent may be presented
by the respondent or an agent or attorney of the respondent. An agent or
attorney shall present a written authorization signed by the respondent giving
the agent or attorney power to act and to bind the respondent to any orders
entered by the administrative hearing officer. (Ord. M-101-07, 12-17-2007; amd.
Ord. M-22-08, 6-16-2008)
1-16-12: CONDUCT OF HEARINGS:
The administrative hearing officer shall conduct the hearings in an orderly
manner and insist upon proper decorum by all persons present at the hearings.
The intent of the hearings is to provide the city and the respondent a full and
fair presentation of the issues.
Hearings of red light violation notice citations shall be conducted in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter and
title 7, chapter 12 of this code. In the case of a conflict, the provisions of
title 7, chapter 12 of this code shall control. (Ord. M-63-10, 12-20-2010)
1-16-13: TESTIMONY AND EVIDENCE:
   A.   Testimony: Hearsay testimony may be admitted by the administrative
hearing officer in making his/her determination. The administrative hearing
officer shall determine the weight, if any, to be given to the testimony.
   B.   Evidence: The technical rules of evidence shall not apply. Relevant
documents may be received into evidence without formal proof of authenticity.
The administrative hearing officer shall determine the weight, if any, to be
afforded documents received into evidence.
   C.   Transcript Of Proceedings: The hearing shall be recorded. The city
shall determine the manner in which the transcript of proceedings shall occur.
Either party may request that the proceedings be taken and transcribed by a
certified court reporter. The cost of the court reporter shall be borne by the
party requesting the court reporter. The city may, at its cost, record the
proceedings. If a recording is made, a respondent may obtain a transcript at
respondent's cost.
   D.   Continuances: All administrative law hearings shall be conducted on the
date set for hearing. For good cause shown, a continuance may be granted at the
discretion of the administrative hearing officer. The purpose of administrative
hearings is to provide a prompt resolution of alleged code violations, and
accordingly, the request for and the grant of, continuances shall be granted
only for good cause shown. (Ord. M-101-07, 12-17-2007; amd. Ord. M-22-08, 6-16-
2008)
1-16-14: ORDERS:
The Administrative Hearing Officer shall issue a written order specifying the
ordinance violated, and the fine and other relief granted. The order shall also
contain the following notice:
The fines and penalties contained in this order are a debt due and owing the
city of Des Plaines and said total of fines and penalties must be paid within
30 days of the date the order is issued by the administrative hearing officer.
Failure to pay any fine or penalty due and owing the city within the
aforementioned time period may result in the city's instituting an action in
the Circuit court of Cook County to recover said fines and penalties. In
addition, the city may petition the Illinois secretary of state for a
suspension of respondent's driver's license for failure to pay parking or
compliance fines and penalties for ten (10) or more violations under 625 ILCS
6-306.5.
   A.   Final Orders: The order of the Administrative Hearing Officer becomes
final thirty (30) days following entry of the order, or thirty (30) days from a
denial of a timely filed petition to set aside the Hearing Officer's decision,
whichever occurs last.
   B.   Petition To Set Aside Determination: A petition to set aside the order
of the Administrative Hearing Officer must be filed within thirty (30) days of
entry of the Administrative Hearing Officer's order. The petition shall be
filed in the City Clerk's Office and notice shall be given to the City Attorney
within three (3) days of filing. The Administrative Hearing Officer shall set a
briefing schedule and hearing date. The grounds for the petition are limited to
the following: 1) lack of proper service, 2) the person not having been the
owner or lessee of the property cited on the date the violation notice was
issued, 3) the order is against the manifest weight of the evidence, or that
new evidence unknown to and unavailable to a party on the date of the hearing
will materially affect the order of the Hearing Officer, or 4) excusable
failure to appear at the hearing or request a new date for a hearing. In the
event the determination of parking, standing, or compliance violation is set
aside upon a showing of just cause, the Administrator shall set a hearing on
the merits for that violation at the earliest available date convenient to all
parties.
   C.   Violations Of Orders: Any person, having received notice and an
opportunity for a hearing as provided in this chapter who knowingly fails to
comply with an order issued by an Administrative Hearing Officer under this
chapter, including the issuance of a subpoena, shall, if the order is not
stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction prior to its effective date, be
guilty of contempt. Contempt shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day that the violation continues shall be
considered a separate and distinct offense. In a prosecution under this
section, it shall not be a defense that a person came into compliance with an
order, sought judicial review of it, or made efforts to comply with an order,
subsequent to its effective date. (Ord. M-101-07, 12-17-2007; amd. Ord. M-22-
08, 6-16-2008)
1-16-15: FINES:
All fines and other monies paid to the City in accordance with this chapter
shall be remitted to the City and deposited in the appropriate City account as
designated by the Director of Finance and Administrative Services. (Ord. M-101-
07, 12-17-2007; amd. Ord. M-22-08, 6-16-2008)
1-16-16: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING PROGRAM PROCEDURES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, the authority of the
Administrative Hearing Department to conduct administrative hearings in
accordance with this chapter shall not preclude the City from seeking any
remedies for Code or ordinance violations through the use of any other
administrative procedure or court proceeding.
   A.   Other Provisions Not Limiting:
      1.   Notwithstanding any other provision of the ordinances of the City or
this Code, all provisions of the Code or ordinance may be enforced by
instituting an administrative adjudication hearing with the Administrative
Hearing Department as provided in this chapter. (Ord. M-101-07, 12-17-2007;
amd. Ord. M-22-08, 6-16-2008)
      2.   Nothing in this chapter shall affect the jurisdiction of the Liquor
Control Commissioner, Human Relations Commission, Firefighters' Pension Fund,
Police Pension Fund, the Planning and Zoning Board, or the Board of Fire and
Police Commissioners, or any other commission established by this Code. (Ord.
M-101-07, 12-17-2007; amd. Ord. M-22-08, 6-16-2008; Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
   B.   Adjudication By Mail; Procedure:
      1.   Administrative hearings to review materials submitted for the
adjudication by mail of violations pursuant to this chapter shall be conducted
in accordance with this chapter.
      2.   The respondent may contest a violation, based on one or more of the
grounds provided, by mailing to the Police Department the following materials
and information: the notice of violation, the full name, address and telephone
number(s) of the respondent; any documentary evidence that rebuts the alleged
violation; and a written statement signed by the respondent setting forth facts
relevant to establishing a defense to the alleged violation. A photocopy of any
documentary evidence submitted by any party shall be accepted as the equivalent
of the original document.
      3.   No violation may be established except upon proof by a preponderance
of the evidence; provided, however, that an administrative citation notice of
violation, or a copy thereof, issued in accordance with this chapter shall be
prima facie evidence of the correctness of the facts specified therein.
      4.   Upon review of the materials submitted in accordance with this
section, the Hearing Officer shall enter a determination of no liability or of
liability and, if liability is found, the amount of the fine. Upon issuance,
such determination shall constitute a final determination for purposes of
judicial review under the Administrative Review Law of Illinois. (Ord. M-13-18,
6-18-2018)
1-16-17: APPEAL:
Any party to an administrative hearing may appeal the order of the
Administrative Hearing Officer to the Circuit Court of Cook County within
thirty five (35) days of the entry of the order. In the event that a party
files a timely petition to set aside a Hearing Officer's ruling pursuant to
subsection
1-16-14B of this chapter, a party may appeal the order within thirty (30) days
of a decision on a petition to set aside a Hearing Officer's order. Such appeal
shall be limited to a review of the official record of proceedings of the
administrative hearing. Only evidence found in the official record of
proceedings may be considered on appeal.
The cost of preparing and certifying a transcript of the administrative hearing
proceedings shall be paid by the party filing the complaint for administrative
review pursuant to the provisions of 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-109.
(Ord. M-101-07, 12-17-2007; amd. Ord. M-22-08, 6-16-2008)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
BOARD AND COMMISSION MEMBERS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Qualifications Of Members Of Boards And Commissions
2-1-2: Appointment Of Chair And Other Officers
2-1-3: Terms Of Office
2-1-1: QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS OF BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS:
In addition to the other qualifications required by the city code or any
statute in such case made and provided, no person shall be appointed as a
member of any commission or board of this city or be allowed to hold such
office, unless said person is a resident of the city, except that a person not
a resident of the city may serve on any commission or board upon a favorable
vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all aldermen. The term of any duly appointed
nonresident member shall be of the same duration as it would had a resident
been appointed to the particular office. (Ord. M-49-94, 7-5-1994)
2-1-2: APPOINTMENT OF CHAIR AND OTHER OFFICERS:
Appointments of commission or board members shall be made by the mayor with the
consent of the city council. Upon the initial creation of a commission or
board, the mayor shall appoint its chair. One year after the initial creation
of a commission or board, the commission or board shall thereafter elect a
chair from their membership by vote of their membership. Each commission or
board shall establish such other officers of the commission/board as each deem
fit. (Ord. M-34-98, 6-15-1998)
2-1-3: TERMS OF OFFICE:
   A.   Officers: Terms of all officers of such commission or board shall be
for one year unless otherwise provided in the ordinance covering each such
commission or board.
   B.   Members: Upon appointment by the mayor of the first members of the
commission/board, the terms of the members shall be as prescribed in the
ordinance covering each such commission or board. Subsequent appointments/
reappointments made upon the expiration of the term of any members shall be
made by the mayor for the unexpired term of the member whom he succeeds. (Ord.
M-34-98, 6-15-1998)
CHAPTER 2
PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD
SECTION:
2-2-1: Creation And Membership
2-2-2: Jurisdiction And Authority
2-2-3: Meetings And Rules
2-2-4: Hearings And Decisions
2-2-1: CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Creation; Appointment: The planning and zoning board ("PZB") is hereby
established pursuant to the authority granted by sections 11-13-3 and 11-12-
4 of the Illinois municipal code 1
, and the city's home rule powers. The PZB shall have seven (7) members, who
shall be appointed by the mayor with the consent of the city council from the
sitting members of the plan commission and the zoning board of appeals as of
the effective date of this amendatory provision.
   B.   Terms Of Office: The initial members of the PZB will have staggered
terms of office as designated by the mayor, with two (2) members having an
initial one year term, two (2) members having an initial two (2) year term, and
three (3) members having an initial three (3) year term. All subsequent terms
of PZB members, including renewal terms, shall be for three (3) years.
   C.   Chair And Vice Chair: One PZB member shall be designated as chair and
one PZB member shall be designated as vice chair by majority vote of the PZB's
membership. The chair, or in the absence of the chair, the vice chair, will
preside over all meetings of the PZB and may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. In the absence of both the chair and the vice chair,
the members of the PZB will select from those members present a chair pro tem
to serve for the duration of the meeting.
   D.   Removal; Resignation: The mayor shall have the power to remove any
member of the PZB for cause and after a public hearing. A member's unexcused
absence without good cause shown from four (4) PZB meetings in a six (6) month
period shall constitute grounds for removal. A member may resign after
providing notice to the mayor, and acceptance by the city council of the
resignation. Resigning members shall be deemed to serve until their replacement
has been appointed and received the consent of the city council.
   E.   Vacancies: Vacancies upon the PZB shall be filled for the unexpired
term of the members whose place has become vacant, in the manner herein
provided for the appointment of the member. (Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-13-3, 5/11-12-4.
2-2-2: JURISDICTION AND AUTHORITY:
The PZB is hereby vested with the following jurisdiction and authority:
   A.   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the zoning administrator pursuant to the zoning
ordinance.
   B.   To hear and pass upon applications for variations from the terms of the
zoning ordinance not within the jurisdiction of the zoning administrator or the
city council, and any other matters referred to it or upon which it is required
to pass pursuant to the zoning ordinance.
   C.   Hear and make recommendations to the city council on applications for
amendments to the zoning ordinance and to the zoning map, variations from the
zoning ordinance within the jurisdiction of the city council, conditional uses,
planned unit developments, localized alternative sign regulations, and any
other matters referred to it pursuant to the zoning ordinance.
   D.   Hear and decide upon applications for subdivisions in the manner and
subject to the standards set forth in the subdivision regulations of this code.
   E.   Recommend to the city council changes in or updates to the city's
comprehensive plan that are in the public interest; give aid and advice to the
officials of the city charged with the direction or projects embraced within
the comprehensive plan; and generally to promote the realization of the
comprehensive plan.
   F.   Exercise such other powers germane to the powers now or that may
hereafter be granted or as may be conferred by the city council.
   G.   To adopt rules of procedure for the PZB's meetings and hearings not in
conflict with state law or this code; provided, however, that such rules of
procedure must be ratified by the city council. (Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
2-2-3: MEETINGS AND RULES:
   A.   Time And Place: Regular meetings of the PZB shall be held on the second
and fourth Tuesday of each month commencing at the hour of seven o'clock (7:00)
P.M. in the city council chambers, and at such other times and places as may be
called by the chair, upon proper notice pursuant to the open meetings act 1
.
   B.   Conduct Of Meetings: The chair, and in the chair's absence, the vice
chair shall preside over all public meetings and hearings of the PZB. No
meeting may be conducted without the presence of a quorum, which shall consist
of a majority of the currently appointed PZB members. All meetings and hearings
shall be conducted in compliance with the open meetings act and rules of
procedure to be adopted by the PZB and ratified by the city council.
   C.   Secretary; Records: A designee(s) of the city manager shall serve as
the secretary to the PZB. The secretary of the PZB shall keep minutes of all of
the PZB's proceedings, record the vote of each member, the absence or failure
to vote of any member, and records of hearings and other official actions. If
the secretary of the PZB is absent, the city clerk or deputy city clerk shall
have the duties of the secretary under this section. All records of the PZB,
including minutes, decisions, and recommendations, shall be filed with and
maintained in the office of the city clerk and shall be public records open to
inspection and review pursuant to the freedom of information act 2
.
   D.   Necessary Vote: The affirmative vote of at least a majority of the
currently appointed PZB members shall be necessary to adopt any motion to
overturn a decision of the zoning administrator, to grant a variation that is
within the PZB's jurisdiction, or to pass upon any matter over which the PZB is
granted final authority. The affirmative vote of at least a majority of the PZB
members present shall be necessary to recommend approval of any matter referred
to the PZB solely for hearing and recommendation. Any lesser vote on any such
motions, even if a majority of those voting, shall be considered a final
decision to deny or recommend denial of such matter or application. (Ord. Z-29-
15, 10-5-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
2 1. 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
2-2-4: HEARINGS AND DECISIONS:
   A.   Hearing: All hearings by the PZB shall be noticed in accordance with
section
12-3-1 of the zoning code and conducted in accordance with the appropriate
section of chapter 3, entitled "Development Review Procedures", of the zoning
code and section
13-2-3 of this code.
   B.   Procedure At Hearings: The PZB shall adopt rules of procedure by a
majority vote of the currently appointed members to govern the conduct of its
hearings, subject to ratification by the city council. Upon the hearing, any
party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
   C.   Form Of Decisions And Recommendations: All decisions and
recommendations of the PZB shall be reduced to written form by the PZB's
secretary and shall include:
      1.   The PZB's decision or recommendation to approve, deny, or approve
with conditions the relief requested;
      2.   The specific factual findings on which the PZB has based its
determination;
      3.   Any conditions or restrictions that the PZB deemed appropriate to
impose or recommend; and
      4.   The vote of each member of the PZB, including the absence or failure
to vote of each member on the decision or recommendation.
   D.   Decisions Final: All decisions on appeal, or any other matter, over
which the PZB is granted final authority shall be subject to review under the
Illinois administrative review act, 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 et
seq. (Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS 1
(Rep. by Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 2 of this title.
CHAPTER 4
BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
2-4-1: Establishment Of Board
2-4-2: Duties
2-4-3: Superintendent Of Special Assessments
2-4-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF BOARD:
There is hereby established a board of local improvements, which shall consist
of six (6) members, of which board the director of public works shall be the
president. The other members of the board shall be the city engineer and the
city clerk. (Ord. M-29-65, 12-20-1965; amd. 2002 Code)
2-4-2: DUTIES:
The board shall perform the duties prescribed by the provisions of the Illinois
Compiled Statutes pertaining to local improvements 1
. (Ord. M-15-65, 7-19-1965)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/9-1-1 et seq.
2-4-3: SUPERINTENDENT OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS:
There is hereby created the office of superintendent of special assessments,
who shall be appointed by the mayor with the consent of the city council. It
shall be the duty of the superintendent of special assessments to make a true
and impartial assessment of the cost of local improvements upon the city and
upon the property benefited by the improvement, to apportion the cost thereof
among the public and the property to be benefited and to perform such other
acts as may be required of him by law. (Ord. M-16-65, 7-19-1965)
CHAPTER 5
HOMELAND SECURITY AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
SECTION:
2-5-1: Establishment
2-5-2: Director
2-5-3: Homeland Security Functions
2-5-4: Deputy Director
2-5-5: EMA Functions
2-5-6: Reserved
2-5-7: Agreements With Other Political Subdivisions
2-5-8: Emergency Action
2-5-9: Compensation
2-5-10: Reimbursement By State
2-5-11: Purchases And Expenditures; Waiver Of Fees
2-5-12: Oath
2-5-13: Office Of Emergency Operation Center
2-5-14: Continuity Of Government
2-5-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
There is hereby created the Des Plaines homeland security and emergency
management agency ("HSEMA"). The HSEMA is the emergency services disaster
agency for the city established to coordinate the emergency management program
of the city. The HSEMA has all the powers and duties of an emergency services
disaster agency established by ordinance within a political subdivision
pursuant to, and in accordance with, the Illinois emergency management agency
act, 20 Illinois Compiled Statutes 3305/1 et seq. ("EMA act"), and the
regulations promulgated under the EMA act. The duties of the HSEMA include,
without limitation, the preparation of an emergency operations plan for the
city in accordance with the EMA act. For the purpose of this chapter, the terms
"emergency services disaster agency", "emergency management", and "emergency
operations plan" have the same definitions as the definitions of those terms
set forth in section 4 of the EMA act, 20 Illinois Compiled Statutes 3305/4.
(Ord. M-13-15, 6-15-2015)
2-5-2: DIRECTOR:
The director of the HSEMA shall be, and shall have all the powers and duties
of, the "coordinator", as that term is used in the EMA act, of the HSEMA. In
accordance with the EMA act, the director shall be appointed by the mayor and
shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration,
training, and operation of the HSEMA, subject to the direction and control of
the mayor, or his designee. In the performance of his or her duties, the
director must consult and cooperate with the city's mayor, city manager, chief
of police, fire chief, and incident management team to assure that the
emergency management activities of the HSEMA are: a) coordinated with the
operations of the city's police department and fire department, and b) comply
with the regulations promulgated under the EMA act and federal regulations
regarding national incident management system.
The director is responsible for coordinating all components of the emergency
management program for the city. The director serves as the key leader in
planning, the coordinator of operations, and the city liaison to other
jurisdictions related to emergency management matters to build the emergency
management program and coordinate all aspects of the city's preparedness,
response, mitigation and recovery capabilities.
The management of resources and establishment of response and recovery
strategies during periods of major emergency and disaster require careful
coordination and direction. To ensure this coordinated effort, an incident
management team, headed by the director, or his designee, shall be established
and consist of city officials and department and agency heads.
The director shall have direct responsibility for the development, coordination
and implementation of a comprehensive strategy for homeland security and
emergency management for the protection of Des Plaines from terrorist threats,
attacks, natural or manmade disasters. The director shall perform the functions
necessary to carry out this mission, including the functions specified in
section
2-5-3 of this chapter. (Ord. M-13-15, 6-15-2015)
2-5-3: HOMELAND SECURITY FUNCTIONS:
The HSEMA shall coordinate with all city departments and agencies, state and
local governments, and private entities to develop a city strategy for
detecting, preparing for, preventing, protecting against, responding to, and
recovering from terrorist threats or attacks within the city of Des Plaines and
to periodically review and coordinate revisions to that strategy as necessary.
The HSEMA shall work with federal, state, and other local agencies, as
appropriate, to:
   A.   Facilitate collection of information from state and local governments
and private entities pertaining to terrorist threats or activities within the
city;
   B.   Assist the chief of police to coordinate and prioritize the city's
requirements for intelligence relating to terrorism;
   C.   Coordinate efforts to ensure that city officials and departments
responsible for intelligence collection have sufficient technological
capabilities and resources to collect intelligence and data relating to
terrorist activities or possible terrorist acts within the city;
   D.   Ensure that, to the extent permitted by law, all appropriate and
necessary intelligence and law enforcement information relating to homeland
security is disseminated to and exchanged among appropriate city officials,
departments and agencies responsible for homeland security and, where
appropriate for reasons of homeland security, promote the exchange of such
information with and among state and other local governments and private
entities. (Ord. M-13-15, 6-15-2015)
2-5-4: DEPUTY DIRECTOR:
The deputy director of the HSEMA shall be appointed by the city manager and
report to the director.
The deputy director shall assist the director with the organization,
administration, training and operation of the Des Plaines emergency management
program. (Ord. M-13-15, 6-15-2015)
2-5-5: EMA FUNCTIONS:
The HSEMA shall perform state and federal emergency management functions within
the city, as shall be prescribed in and by the city's emergency operations
plan. The HSEMA will also carry out plans and programs prepared by the director
and deputy director and such orders, rules and regulations as may be
promulgated by the mayor, city manager, and chief of police. In addition the
HSEMA shall perform such duties outside the corporate limits of the city, as
may be required pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with any other political
subdivision, as provided for in the EMA act and the regulations promulgated
under the EMA act. (Ord. M-13-15, 6-15-2015)
2-5-6: RESERVED:
(Ord. M-13-15, 6-15-2015)
2-5-7: AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS:
The director, in consultation with the city manager, may negotiate mutual aid
agreements with other governmental departments or agencies, but no such
agreement shall be effective until it has been approved by the mayor, city
manager, city attorney, and city council. (Ord. M-13-15, 6-15-2015)
2-5-8: EMERGENCY ACTION:
If a disaster or emergency exists in the city resulting from enemy sabotage or
other hostile action, from manmade or natural disaster, or any Illinois
homeland security advisory system notification, the city's incident management
team will coordinate the city's response effort in accordance with the city's
emergency operation plan. (Ord. M-13-15, 6-15-2015)
2-5-9: COMPENSATION:
Members of the HSEMA who are paid employees or officers of the city, if called
for training by, or designated as members of a state mobile support team
created by, the Illinois emergency management agency, shall receive for the
time spent in such training or service on a mobile support team the same rate
of pay as is attached to the position held; members who are not such city
employees or officers shall receive for such training time such compensation as
may be established by the city council. (Ord. M-13-15, 6-15-2015)
2-5-10: REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE:
The finance director may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund any
reimbursement by the state to the city for expenses incident to training
members of the HSEMA as prescribed by the Illinois emergency management agency.
This also includes compensation for services and expenses of members of a
mobile support team while serving outside the city in response to a call by the
governor or the Illinois emergency management agency, as provided by law, and
any other reimbursement made by the state incident to the HSEMA's activities as
provided by law. (Ord. M-13-15, 6-15-2015)
2-5-11: PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES; WAIVER OF FEES:
Notwithstanding any other section of this code, upon the issuance of a
proclamation by the mayor declaring a disaster, as that term is defined by the
Illinois emergency management agency act, 20 Illinois Compiled Statutes 3305/4,
within the city, the city manager shall have the following emergency powers:
   A.   Purchases And Expenditures: The city manager may execute any documents
approved by the general counsel and authorize any expenditures necessary for
the purchase and procurement of any and all equipment, goods, and services
reasonably necessary for the city to effectively respond to, mitigate, and
recover from the declared emergency; and
   B.   Waiver Of Fees: The city manager may authorize the waiver of any city
fees as the city manager deems is reasonably necessary to assist the residents,
business owners, and property owners of the city to respond to, mitigate, and
recover from the declared emergency. (Ord. M-15-13, 7-1-2013)
2-5-12: OATH:
Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the HSEMA shall, before
entering upon his/her duties, subscribe to the following oath, which shall be
filed with the director and the city clerk:
I,                    , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and
defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United
States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory,
institutions and facilities thereof, both public and private, against all
enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any
mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully
discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or
affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I, nor have I been a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of this State by force or violence; and that during
such time as I am affiliated with the City of Des Plaines Homeland Security and
Emergency Management Agency, I will not advocate nor become a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of this State by force or violence.
(Ord. M-13-15, 6-15-2015)
2-5-13: OFFICE OF EMERGENCY OPERATION CENTER:
The city manager is authorized to designate space for the HSEMA as its office
and emergency operation center. (Ord. M-13-15, 6-15-2015)
2-5-14: CONTINUITY OF GOVERNMENT:
   A.   Line Of Succession For Mayor: In accordance with the Illinois emergency
executive succession act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 275/1 et seq., the mayor
shall designate by title (if feasible) or by named person not less than three
(3) and not more than seven (7) emergency interim successors and specify their
order of succession. In the event that the mayor is unavailable during an
emergency, the powers and duties of the office of mayor will be exercised and
discharged by his designated emergency interim successors in the order
specified until such time as the mayor becomes available to exercise and
discharge the powers of the office or until any vacancy which may exist has
been filled in accordance with the constitution and applicable statutes and
ordinances.
   B.   Continuity Of Operations Of City Departments: The city's emergency
operations plan developed by HSEMA shall provide for the maintenance of
continuity of essential city governmental functions and services during an
emergency.
   C.   Preservation Of Vital Records: In consultation with the director, the
city clerk shall identify city records that are vital to maintaining the
continuity of essential city governmental functions and services during an
emergency. The city clerk shall store such records in secure locations and
shall keep and maintain a record of the locations where such records are
stored. (Ord. M-13-15, 6-15-2015)
CHAPTER 6
BOARD OF FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
2-6-1: Establishment Of Board
2-6-2: Membership; Term Of Office; Oath And Bond; Removal; Vacancy
2-6-3: Attorney For Board
2-6-4: Officers; Recordkeeping; Secretary
2-6-5: Rules And Meetings
2-6-6: Jurisdiction And Purpose
2-6-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF BOARD:
   A.   At a special election on March 8, 1935, the voters of the city approved
the adoption of the provisions of an act entitled "an act to provide for the
appointment of a board of fire and police commissioners in all cities, villages
and incorporated towns of this state", and which prescribed the powers and
duties of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners ("BFPC"). The first BFPC
was appointed by the mayor and was confirmed by the city council on March 18,
1935.
   B.   The BFPC is governed by the provisions of this Chapter, as adopted
pursuant to the City's home rule authority, and Division 10-2.1 of the Illinois
Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-1 et seq. In the event of any conflict between
the provisions of this Chapter, and Division 10-2.1 of the Illinois Municipal
Code, the provisions of this Chapter shall control. (Ord. M-14-21, 11-16-2021)
2-6-2: MEMBERSHIP; TERM OF OFFICE; OATH AND BOND; REMOVAL; VACANCY:
   A.   The BFPC shall consist of three voting members appointed in the manner
provided in Section
2-1-2 of this Code.
   B.   The term of appointment for each BFPC member shall be three years.
   C.   Each member of the BFPC shall take oath (or affirmation) and give bond
in the same manner as other appointive officers of the city, as provided by
statute.
   D.   The mayor may remove any member for incompetence, neglect of duty, or
malfeasance in office, subject to (i) written notice to the Council with the
reasons for the removal, and (ii) consent of the Council after no less than 30
days' notice to the subject member and an opportunity to be heard before the
Council.
   E.   Any vacancy in the BFPC shall be filled by appointment by the mayor,
with the advice and consent of the Council, for the remainder of the unexpired
term. (Ord. M-14-21, 11-16-2021)
2-6-3: ATTORNEY FOR BOARD:
The city attorney shall be the attorney for the BFPC. However, in the event of
a conflict of interest and/or potential or perceived conflict of interest, the
City Council may employ an attorney of its own choosing to represent the BFPC.
(Ord. M-14-21, 11-16-2021)
2-6-4: OFFICERS; RECORDKEEPING; SECRETARY:
   A.   The Chairman of the BFPC will be appointed by the Mayor with consent of
the City Council pursuant to Sections
2-1-2 and
2-1-3A of this Code.
   B.   Pursuant to the City's home rule authority, and notwithstanding the
provisions of Section
2-1-2 of this Code, the City Manager shall select a member of City staff to
serve as Recording Secretary of the BFPC. The Recording Secretary shall, in
addition to the duties set forth in 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-20, have the following
duties:
      1.   Keep the minutes of all meetings of the BFPC;
      2.   Serve as the custodian of all records pertaining to the business of
the BFPC, the originals of which must be kept and remain on file and secure at
City Hall;
      3.   Keep a record of all examinations held;
      4.   Post eligible registers that have been created by the BFPC from the
results of examinations for positions under the jurisdiction of the BFPC;
      5.   Perform such duties as may be prescribed in the BFPC rules as
approved by the City Council pursuant to Section
2-6-5A of this Code;
      6.   Prepare and post agendas for BFPC meetings;
      7.   Attend all meetings of the BFPC, including closed session meetings;
      8.   Prepare the annual calendar for BFPC meetings, and
      9.   Coordinate with City staff and the BFPC, including the BFPC
Secretary, concerning the preparation and presentation of materials for
consideration by the BFPC. (Ord. M-14-21, 11-16-2021)
2-6-5 RULES AND MEETINGS:
   A.   The BFPC and its members will perform their duties, as provided in this
Chapter and Division 10-2.1 of the Illinois Municipal Code, in compliance with
rules approved by the City Council, by resolution duly adopted. The BFPC will
prepare proposed amendments to the rules and present proposed amendments to the
City Council for consideration and approval, in whole or in part. In the event
of any conflict between the BFPC rules and this Chapter, the provisions of this
Chapter shall control.
   B.   Two members of the BFPC will constitute a quorum of the BFPC for the
transaction of business thereof. (Ord. M-14-21, 11-16-2021)
2-6-6: JURISDICTION AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Subject to, and as may be limited by, the rules approved by the City
Council pursuant to Section
2-6-5A of this Code, the BFPC has the following authority:
      1.   To grant preference points to applicants for certain educational and
training courses and degrees for original appointment to the fire department.
      2.   To extend promotional examinations through all the orders of rank in
the Des Plaines fire or police department services and then to the general
public.
      3.   To suspend a member of the fire or police department for a period
not to exceed ninety (90) days if the board determines that the pending charges
warrant dismissal or if the member charged has previously served a thirty (30)
day suspension and the pending charges warrant a suspension greater than thirty
(30) days; to impose fines; and to order forfeitures of leave time.
      4.   To grant to the chiefs of the fire and police departments the power
to impose fines, suspend without pay or order forfeitures of leave time, but
not to exceed an equivalent of five (5) days' pay.
      5.   In the event a member has been suspended without pay pending a
hearing, at the request of said member, the board may grant one continuance for
purposes of conducting discovery. If one such continuance has been granted, and
said member requests a further continuance for the purposes of conducting
discovery, then the board may not grant said request unless the member
stipulates that no compensation shall be paid to said member during the period
of the additional continuance.
      6.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Illinois municipal
code, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/10-2.1-1 et seq., an eligibility list of
candidates for original appointment to the position of firefighter or police
officer shall be valid and effective for a period of two (2) years from the
date of posting or publication of the list, or until the date the list is
exhausted (as provided for in the rules and regulations of the board of fire
and police commissioners), whichever shall occur first. Any person whose name
is on the current list of eligible candidates as of the date of adoption hereof
shall remain on the list until the list expires unless appointed to a position
or removed from the list as provided for in the rules and regulations of the
board of fire and police commissioners.
   B.   The jurisdiction and powers of the BFPC shall be subject to the terms
of any applicable collective bargaining agreement. (Ord. M-14-21, 11-16-2021)
CHAPTER 7
RESERVED
(Ord. Z-11-14, 4-7-2014)
CHAPTER 8
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-8-1: Establishment Of Commission
2-8-2: Members
2-8-3: Terms
2-8-4: Removal; Vacancy
2-8-5: Powers
2-8-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSION:
There is hereby created a civil service commission, as provided by an act of
the Illinois Compiled Statutes, entitled civil service in cities. (Ord. M-5-11,
7-19-2011)
2-8-2: MEMBERS:
The commission shall consist of three (3) members, who shall be appointed by
the mayor with the consent of the city council. The commissioners shall hold no
other lucrative office or employment with the United States government, the
state of Illinois or the city of Des Plaines. Each commissioner, before
entering upon the duties of his office, shall take the oath prescribed by the
constitution of the state. (Ord. M-5-11, 7-19-2011)
2-8-3: TERMS:
Upon the appointment of the first member of the commission, one shall be
appointed for three (3) years, one for two (2) years and one for one year from
the time of appointment until their respective successors are appointed and
qualified. In every year thereafter the mayor shall, in like manner, appoint
one person as the successor of the commissioner whose term shall expire in that
year, to serve for three (3) years until his successor is appointed and
qualified. Two (2) commissioners shall constitute a quorum. (Ord. M-5-11, 7-19-
2011)
2-8-4: REMOVAL; VACANCY:
The mayor may, in his discretion, remove any commissioner for incompetence,
neglect of duty or malfeasance in office. The mayor shall, within ten (10)
days, report in writing any such removal to the city council, with the reasons
therefor. Any vacancy in the commission shall be filled by appointment by the
mayor for the remainder of the unexpired term. (Ord. M-5-11, 7-19-2011)
2-8-5: POWERS:
The jurisdiction of the commission is limited to the review of the hearing of
charges, suspensions, removals and rehearings for incumbents in the following
nonrepresented positions: executive secretary in city clerk's office, executive
secretary in legal division, executive secretary in human resources, secretary
in finance department, police support services manager, police social worker,
information technology specialist, human resources specialist, and compensation
specialist, who were appointed under the auspices of the civil service
commission. Employees hired after the effective date of ordinance M-5-11 shall
not be eligible for coverage under the civil service commission. (Ord. M-5-11,
7-19-2011)
CHAPTER 9
HUMAN SERVICES ADVISORY COMMISSION
(Rep. by Ord. M-16-08, 4-21-2008)
CHAPTER 10
DES PLAINES FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE TAX BOARD
SECTION:
2-10-1: Establishment Of Board
2-10-2: Election Of Officers
2-10-3: Election Procedure
2-10-4: Powers, Duties And Procedures
2-10-5: Quorum, Special Meetings
2-10-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF BOARD:
There is hereby established the Des Plaines foreign fire insurance tax board.
This board shall be composed of seven (7) members, and shall exercise the
powers as designated herein consistent with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
10-2. (Ord. M-6-96, 2-20-1996)
2-10-2: ELECTION OF OFFICERS:
   A.   The board shall consist of seven (7) members. The members of the board
shall be designated chair, vice chair, secretary, treasurer and three (3)
trustees. Each member of the board shall be a nonprobationary, noncivilian
member of the fire department.
   B.   The members of the board shall be elected by the nonprobationary,
noncivilian members of the department.
   C.   Each member of the board shall serve a two (2) year term. In the event
no successor member assumes office prior to the expiration of the two (2) year
term, then the member shall serve until a successor member assumes office. The
initial terms of office of the members of the board shall begin thirty (30)
days after completion of the election. Each board member shall hold office
during his term unless the member resigns from the department, retires from the
department, or is discharged from the department. If any of these three (3)
events occur, the board member shall automatically be removed from the board
and the position shall be deemed vacant.
   D.   Vacancies in the board shall be filled by election by the
nonprobationary, noncivilian members of the department, and such election shall
be for the balance of the unexpired term. Any person elected to fill a board
position vacancy shall assume office immediately upon completion of the
election. (Ord. M-6-96, 2-20-1996)
2-10-3: ELECTION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Temporary Election Procedure: The Des Plaines firefighters association
shall establish a seven (7) member committee which shall be filled by
individuals selected from membership in the association. These individuals
shall adopt a procedure for the creation of the permanent board within the
meaning of the ordinance codified herein and the applicable state statute. The
temporary committee shall be responsible for organizing, conducting and
supervising the initial election of department members to serve on the Des
Plaines fire insurance tax board.
   B.   Permanent Election Procedure:
      1.   The board shall develop a procedure for governing the nomination of
members to run for the various offices to serve on the board. The nominating
procedure shall be established a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to the
expiration of the board members' terms of office.
      2.   The board shall develop a procedure for the final election of
members to the various offices on the board. The final election procedure shall
be established a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the
board members' terms of office.
      3.   The board may adopt rules and regulations governing the election of
officers of the board. All rules and regulations with respect to the election
process shall be posted throughout the department a minimum of thirty (30) days
prior to the election. (Ord. M-6-96, 2-20-1996)
2-10-4: POWERS, DUTIES AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   The board shall make all needful rules and regulations with respect to
the Des Plaines foreign fire insurance tax board and/or the management of
monies appropriated to the board.
   B.   The board shall develop and maintain a listing of those items that the
board feels are appropriate expenditures under the state statutes.
   C.   All expenditures by the board shall be in accordance with all city
ordinances, concerning the expenditure of monies. Good and sound accounting
principals shall be followed regarding the holding and spending of any monies.
   D.   The funds of the board shall be annually reviewed as part of the city
audit. The audit shall verify that purchases by the board are for the
maintenance, use and benefit of the fire department.
   E.   The treasurer of the board shall give a sufficient bond to the city.
This bond shall be approved by the director of finance and administrative
services. The bond shall be conditioned upon the faithful performance by the
treasurer or his duties under the state statutes, ordinance, and the rules and
regulations adopted by the board.
   F.   The funds received by the city pursuant to the levy of the foreign fire
insurance company tax shall be set apart and shall be appropriated annually by
the city council to the Des Plaines fire department foreign fire insurance tax
board.
   G.   The treasurer of the board shall receive funds appropriated by the city
and shall pay out money and/or otherwise make expenditures upon the order of
the board. Any expenditures made by the treasurer, pursuant to the order of the
board shall be solely for the maintenance, use and benefit of the fire
department.
   H.   The board shall establish a list of items and/or services from which it
shall select items and/or services to be purchased for the maintenance, use and
benefit of the fire department. The list shall be updated from time to time as
the board shall determine, but no less than annually on January 1 of each year.
The first such list shall be created or revised by April 1, 1996.
   I.   Prior to the purchase of any item(s) and/or service from the list which
the board intends to place within any fire station(s), the board shall submit a
written statement to the fire chief stating the descriptions of the items and/
or services and the proposed locations within any fire station(s). The fire
chief has the right to refuse to allow any such item(s) and/or service(s) into
any fire station(s). If the fire chief decides to allow any such item(s) and/or
service into any fire station, the fire chief shall also have the right to
refuse the board's proposed physical location of any such item(s) or rendering
of service in any fire station. The fire chief must respond in writing to any
written statement of the board within thirty (30) days from his receipt of same
and the fire chief must explain the basis for his decision(s). Upon the
purchase of any approved items, title to same shall be placed in the name of
the city.
   J.   The board may appeal any such decision rendered pursuant to subsection
I of this section to the city manager who shall render his decision in writing
within twenty one (21) days of his receipt of the fire chief's rejection. The
decision of the city manager may be appealed to the public safety committee of
the city council, by submission of a written request for review by the public
safety committee of the city manager's decision within twenty one (21) days of
the issuance of the city manager's decision. This written request for review
shall be submitted to the chair of the public safety committee. The public
safety committee shall consider the appeal as soon as is practicable. The
decision of the public safety committee shall be final. (Ord. M-6-96, 2-20-
1996)
2-10-5: QUORUM, SPECIAL MEETINGS:
The board shall, in accordance with the open meetings act, establish a regular
time and place for its meetings; and publish notice of same. The board shall be
subject to the provisions of the Illinois open meetings act. The chair shall
preside at board meetings, the secretary shall keep record of the proceedings
and actions of the board and may certify the same. Four (4) members of the
board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The chair may
call a special meeting at any time. A special meeting may also be called upon
the written notice of three (3) members of the board. Such notice shall be in
writing, duly signed by the board members. Such notice shall describe in brief
the nature or object of the special meeting. Any person shall be entitled to
appear and be heard on any matter before the board. Minutes of board meetings
shall be filed with the city clerk. (Ord. M-6-96, 2-20-1996)
CHAPTER 11
CONSUMER PROTECTION COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-11-1: Established
2-11-2: Chair And Other Officers
2-11-3: Removal
2-11-4: Meetings And Rules Of Procedure
2-11-5: Compensation; Expenses
2-11-6: Definitions
2-11-7: Prohibited Acts And Practices
2-11-8: Exclusions
2-11-9: Powers Of The Commission
2-11-10: Procedures And Hearings
2-11-11: Penalties
2-11-1: ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a consumer protection commission for the city. Said
commission shall consist of seven (7) members, to be appointed by the mayor
with the advice and consent of the city council, four (4) of whom shall
constitute a quorum. They shall be appointed for a term of four (4) years, or
until their successors are appointed and qualified, except that the initially
appointed commission shall consist of one member who shall serve for one year,
two (2) members who shall serve for two (2) years, two (2) members who shall
serve for three (3) years and two (2) members who shall serve for four (4)
years. The membership shall, to the best extent possible, reflect a cross
section of consumer and business interests. At least two (2) members shall,
when possible, be representative of business. At least one member shall, when
possible, be a representative of a local community organization. (Ord. M-100-
07, 1-22-2008)
2-11-2: CHAIR AND OTHER OFFICERS:
   A.   By vote of the membership, one commission member shall be elected
annually from the commission membership to act as chair of the commission.
   B.   The commission may elect from its members a secretary and such other
officers as it may deem advisable. (Ord. M-100-07, 1-22-2008)
2-11-3: REMOVAL:
The mayor may, at his discretion, remove any commissioner for incompetence,
neglect of duty or malfeasance in office. The mayor shall, within ten (10)
days, report in writing any such removal to the city council, with the reasons
therefor. (Ord. M-100-07, 1-22-2008)
2-11-4: MEETINGS AND RULES OF PROCEDURE:
   A.   All fact finding meetings of the commission shall be held at the call
of the chair and at such times as the commission may determine.
   B.   The commission shall keep minutes of its meetings which shall be
available to the mayor and city council.
   C.   The facilities of the civic center shall be available to the commission
for all meetings.
   D.   The commission may adopt rules of order and procedure for the conduct
of its business.
   E.   All hearings conducted by the commission shall be open to the public.
Any person may appear, testify, make statements or present documents at a fact
finding hearing. The chair, or in his absence the acting chair, may administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses by subpoena. Attorneys may appear
with their clients. Attorneys shall not participate in the fact finding
process, but shall be limited to advising their clients regarding their
participation in the hearing. (Ord. M-100-07, 1-22-2008)
2-11-5: COMPENSATION; EXPENSES:
The members of the commission shall serve without compensation. Expenses for
the operation and conduct of the affairs of the commission shall be paid from
the budget of the city. (Ord. M-100-07, 1-22-2008)
2-11-6: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter:
CONSUMER: An actual or prospective purchaser or lessee of property or an actual
or prospective purchaser of services in any "consumer transaction" as defined
in this section. A consumer shall also include a codebtor or surety on an
obligation of a consumer resulting from a consumer transaction, and a person to
whom an act or practice prohibited by this chapter is directed, although he is
not involved in a specific transaction.
CONSUMER TRANSACTION: Any sale or lease of property, or any contract for
services, primarily for a personal, household or family purpose, or a purchase
money security interest.
MERCHANDISE: Any property, personal or real, including, but not limited to,
goods, parts, materials and real estate.
PERSON: An individual, proprietor, partnership, corporation, firm, cooperative,
association or any other group of individuals or their agents, however
organized.
PURCHASE: Taking by sale, discount, negotiation, mortgage, lien or lease.
PURCHASE MONEY SECURITY INTEREST: A security interest that: a) is taken or
retained by the seller of the collateral to secure all or part of its price; or
b) is taken by a person who, by making advances or incurring an obligation,
gives value to enable the debtor to acquire rights in or the use of collateral
if such value is in fact so used.
SALE: Any sale, rental or distribution, offer for sale, rental or distribution
or attempt, directly or indirectly, to sell, rent or distribute.
SELLER: Any person who offers or makes available to consumers, either directly
or indirectly, merchandise, goods, services, credit or housing.
SERVICES: Work, labor or any other kind of activity furnished or agreed to be
furnished to a consumer, including, but not limited to, building and
construction services, underwriting services, the repair of automobile,
television sets and other similar commodities, the repair or installment of
plumbing, heating, electrical or mechanical devices, but not including those
services exempted by section
2-11-8 of this chapter. (Ord. M-100-07, 1-22-2008)
2-11-7: PROHIBITED ACTS AND PRACTICES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in a deceptive trade
practice whether or not any consumer has, in fact, been misled, deceived or
damaged thereby. Deceptive trade practices are:
      1.   Representations that goods or services have sponsorship, approval,
accessories, characteristics, ingredients, uses, benefits or quantities that
they do not have;
      2.   Representations that the merchant has a sponsorship, approval,
status, affiliation or connection that he does not have;
      3.   Representations that goods are original or new if they are
deteriorated, altered, reconditioned, reclaimed or secondhand;
      4.   Representations that goods or services are of particular standard,
quality, grade, style or model, if they are of another;
      5.   The misrepresentation as to a material fact which has a tendency to
mislead;
      6.   The failure to state a material fact if such use or failure deceives
or tends to deceive;
      7.   Disparaging the goods, services or business of another by false or
misleading representations of material facts;
      8.   Advertising or offering goods or services without intent to sell
them or sell them as advertised or offered;
      9.   Advertising or offering goods or services with intent not to supply
reasonably expected public demand, unless the advertisement or offer discloses
a limitation or quantity or other qualifying condition which does not have a
tendency to mislead;
      10.   Making false or misleading representations of fact concerning: the
reasons for, existence of or amounts of price reductions; or the price in
comparison to price of competitor's or one's own price at a past or future
time;
      11.   Knowingly making false statements that services, replacements or
repairs are needed;
      12.   Falsely stating the reasons for offering or supplying goods or
services at sale or discount prices;
      13.   The harassment of or threat to any person either by telephone,
cards or letters with regard to any act other than legal process;
      14.   Any deception, fraud, false pretense, false premise,
misrepresentation or the knowing concealment, suppression or omission of any
material fact with the intent that consumers rely upon such concealment,
suppression or omission in connection with the sale or advertisement of any
merchandise or with the subsequent performance of person aforesaid, whether or
not any person has, in fact, been misled, deceived or damaged thereby;
      15.   Any false, falsely disparaging or misleading oral or written
statement, visual description or other representation of any kind which has the
capacity, tendency or effect of deceiving or misleading consumers and is made
in connection with the sale, lease, rental, loan or bailment of consumer goods
or services; the offering for sale, lease, rental, loan or bailment of consumer
goods or services; the extension of consumer credit; or the collection of
consumer debts.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in an unconscionable
trade practice. Unconscionable trade practices are:
      1.   Failure to provide a written estimate of repairs, alterations,
modifications or servicing when requested by a consumer and the subsequent
repair, alteration, modification or servicing of any item without first
tendering said estimate;
      2.   Making repairs, alterations, modifications or service in exceeding
by twenty five percent (25%) or more the price quoted in a written estimate
without prior approval of a consumer;
      3.   Failure to reassemble or restore an electrical or mechanical
apparatus, appliance, chattel or other goods or merchandise to its tendered
condition unless a service or labor charge is paid, without notification prior
to receiving the tendered item of said service or labor charge;
      4.   Failure to supply to a consumer a copy of a sales or service
contract, lease, promissory note, trust agreement or other evidence of
indebtedness which that person may execute;
      5.   Making or enforcing unconscionable terms or provisions of sales or
leases. In applying this subsection, consideration shall be given to any of the
following factors:
         a.   Knowledge by the merchant at the time credit sales are
consummated that there was no reasonable probability of payment in full of the
obligation by the consumer.
         b.   Knowledge by the merchant at the time of the sale or lease of the
inability of the consumer to receive substantial benefits from the property or
services sold or leased.
         c.   Gross disparity between the price of the property or services
sold or leased and the value of the property or services measured by the price
at which similar property or services are readily obtainable in transactions by
like buyers or lessees.
         d.   The fact that the merchant contracted for or received separate
charges for insurance with respect to credit sales with the effect of making
the sales, considered as a whole, unconscionable.
         e.   The fact that the merchant has knowingly taken advantage of the
inability of the consumer reasonably to protect his interests by reason of
physical or mental infirmities, ignorance, illiteracy or inability to
understand the language of the agreement, or similar factors;
      6.   Replacing parts or components in an electrical or mechanical
apparatus, appliance, chattel or other goods or merchandise when such parts or
components are not defective unless requested by the consumer;
      7.   Falsely stating or representing that repairs, alterations,
modifications or servicing have been made and receiving remuneration therefor
when they have not been made. (Ord. M-100-07, 1-22-2008)
2-11-8: EXCLUSIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   Professional services of certified public accountants, architects,
clergymen, professional engineers, lawyers, veterinarians, insurance agents and
brokers licensed by the state, Christian Science practitioners, land surveyors
and property line surveyors, optometrists, physical therapists, podiatrists,
real estate brokers and salesmen and medical and dental practitioners engaging
in their respective professional endeavors.
   B.   Any television or radio broadcasting station or any publisher or
printer of a newspaper, magazine, or other form of printed advertising who
broadcasts, publishes or prints an advertisement which violates this chapter,
except insofar as such station or publisher or printer engages in a deceptive
or unconscionable practice in the sale or offering for sale of its own goods or
services or has knowledge of the advertising being in violation of this
chapter.
   C.   Public utility companies subject to the jurisdiction of the Illinois
commerce commission. (Ord. M-100-07, 1-22-2008)
2-11-9: POWERS OF THE COMMISSION:
The commission shall have the following powers and authority:
   A.   To receive and investigate complaints and initiate its own
investigation of deceptive or unfair trade practices against consumers; to hold
fact finding hearings, request the attendance of witnesses by subpoena,
administer oaths, take the testimony of any person under oath and, in
conjunction therewith, request the production of any evidence relating to any
matter under investigation or in question by the commission. At any hearing, a
witness shall have the right to be advised by counsel present during such
hearing.
   B.   Direct the chairman, by majority vote of the commission, to issue an
administrative hearing citation for the violations specified by the commission.
   C.   To present the interest of consumers before administrative and
regulatory agencies and legislative bodies.
   D.   To assist, advise and cooperate with better business bureaus and local,
state, and federal agencies and officials to protect and promote the interest
of the consumer public.
   E.   To assist, develop and conduct programs of consumer education and
information through public hearings, meetings, publications or other materials
prepared for distribution to the consumer public.
   F.   To undertake activities to encourage local business and industry to
maintain high standards of honesty, fair business practices and public
responsibility to the production and sale of consumer goods and services and in
the extension of credit.
   G.   To exercise and perform such other functions and duties consistent with
the purposes or provisions of this chapter which may be deemed necessary or
appropriate to protect and promote the welfare of consumers.
   H.   The consumer protection commission may require by subpoena the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary
evidence relating to cases properly brought before the consumer protection
commission. The consumer protection commission may authorize the preparation
and service of subpoenas signed by the chairperson which may be served by the
proper authorities of the city, or any person lawfully authorized to serve
subpoenas under the laws of the state. The attendance of witnesses and the
production of documentary evidence may be required at a designated place within
the municipal boundaries of the city. In case of disobedience to the subpoena,
the commission may petition the circuit court of Cook County for an order
requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses or the production of
documentary evidence or both. The court, upon the filing of such a petition,
may order the person refusing to obey the subpoena to appear at a designated
place pursuant to any investigation or hearing, or to there produce documentary
evidence, if so ordered, or to give evidence relating to the subject matter of
that investigation or hearing. Any failure to obey such order of the circuit
court may be punished by that court as a civil and/or criminal contempt upon
itself. All powers granted under this subsection shall terminate upon the
termination of commission or by city council action.
   I.   The commission shall have the power to enter into settlement agreements
for and on behalf of the parties and to enforce the provisions thereof through
the administrative hearing program. Failure to abide by the provisions of the
settlement agreement shall be conclusively deemed to be a violation of the
conditions of licensing and subject the respondent to the automatic imposition
of a minimum fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00). Continued failure to abide
with provisions of the settlement agreement and to remit the fines and costs to
the city shall be cause for the commission to recommend revocation or
suspension of the business license pursuant to the provisions of this code and
subsections
4-2-11C and F of this code.
   J.   Any licensee that does not cooperate with all of the commission's
inquiries and hearing procedures may be recommended to the mayor or the city
council for license suspension or revocation pursuant to subsection
4-2-11C or F of this code. Any fees, fine or penalty payable to the city
pursuant to the powers of the commission, as outlined hereinabove, shall be
considered an amount due to the city pursuant to the provisions of subsection
4-2-11F of this code. Any failure to pay such amount shall be deemed a
delinquency within the meaning of subsection
4-2-11F of this code empowering the mayor or city council to act thereon. (Ord.
M-100-07, 1-22-2008)
2-11-10: PROCEDURES AND HEARINGS:
   A.   Any person subjected to a deceptive trade practice or unconscionable
trade practice as set forth in section
2-11-7 of this chapter may file with the commission a complaint in writing
which shall state the name and address of the person alleged to have committed
the violation complained of and the particulars thereof.
   B.   Upon filing a complaint as set forth in this section, the commission
shall make such investigation as it deems appropriate to ascertain facts and
issues. If the commission shall determine that there are reasonable grounds to
believe a violation has occurred and is susceptible of conciliation, it shall
attempt to conciliate the matter by methods of initial conference and
persuasion with all interested parties and such representatives as the parties
may choose to assist them. Conciliation conferences shall be informal. The
commission may direct that employees of the city responsible for serving the
commission conduct the conciliation.
   C.   The terms of conciliation agreed to by the parties may be reduced to
writing and incorporated into consent agreement to be signed by the parties,
which agreement is for conciliation purposes only and does not constitute an
admission by any party that the law has been violated. Consent agreements shall
be signed on behalf of the commission by the chair of the commission.
   D.   It shall be a violation of this chapter to violate or fail to adhere to
any provision contained in a consent agreement. Any failure by the commission
to enforce violation of any provision of a consent agreement shall not
constitute a waiver of any right of the commission or provision of such
agreement.
   E.   The commission, or its authorized representative is authorized to seek
the cooperation of all departments and agencies of the city in connection with
any investigation under this chapter by the commission.
   F.   If the commission determines that the complaint lacks reasonable
grounds upon which to base a violation of this chapter, the commission shall so
inform the complainant and the commission may, at the commission's discretion
dismiss such complaint or order such further investigations as may be
necessary.
   G.   If the commission determines that one or more sections of this chapter
have been violated, and settlement attempts were unsuccessful, it may direct
the chairman to issue an administrative hearing citation to the party or
parties alleged to have violated this chapter. The citation shall be issued in
accordance with
title 1, chapter 16 of this code. All formal hearings shall be conducted in
accordance with
title 1, chapter 16 of this code. (Ord. M-100-07, 1-22-2008)
2-11-11: PENALTIES:
Any person who shall be found to have committed a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be liable for the payment to the city of a
civil penalty, recoverable in a civil action, in the sum as set forth in the
general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each such violation. In addition, any such person shall
be subject to injunctive or other appropriate action or proceeding to correct
any violation of this chapter, and any court of competent jurisdiction may
issue restraining orders, temporary or permanent injunctions or other
appropriate forms of relief. In addition, if such person wilfully ignores an
order of the commission, such person shall be liable for the payment to the
city of the city's attorney fees and costs incurred in the enforcement of the
order of the commission so ignored. The city may petition a court of competent
jurisdiction for an appropriate judgment order requiring the payment of such
sums. (Ord. M-100-07, 1-22-2008)
CHAPTER 12
CABLE SERVICES COMMISSION
(Rep. by Ord. M-14-08, 4-21-2008)
CHAPTER 13
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-13-1: Creation Of Commission
2-13-2: Intent And Purpose
2-13-3: Commission Membership
2-13-4: Meetings, Quorum, Voting
2-13-5: Records And Reports
2-13-6: Powers Of The Commission
2-13-7: Pecuniary Interest Of Members
2-13-1: CREATION OF COMMISSION:
There is hereby created a body politic and corporate to be known as the
Economic Development Commission (commission). (Ord. M-18-17, 8-21-2017)
2-13-2: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
To provide for the purpose of encouraging industrial development, commercial
business, retail and other supporting services which will provide job
opportunities, broaden the tax base, and improve the quality of living in the
City. (Ord. M-18-17, 8-21-2017)
2-13-3: COMMISSION MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   The commission shall consist of nine (9) members appointed by the Mayor
with the approval of the City Council.
   B.   Members must be a resident of the City for a minimum of two (2) years
or own a Des Plaines business and/or be in senior management of a company
conducting business within the City for a minimum of two (2) years.
   C.   Terms of incumbent membership shall commence on the date of appointment
as follows:
Five (5) members, each to serve a two (2) year term; and
Four (4) members, each to serve a four (4) year term.
Thereafter, new appointments made upon the expiration of the term of any
member, shall be made for a term of four (4) years. Any appointment to fill a
vacancy shall be for the remaining portion of such member's term.
   D.   Members of the commission shall hold office until their successors are
appointed and may serve more than one successive term.
   E.   Whenever a vacancy on the commission shall occur as a result of
resignation, death or any other reason other than expiration of the term of a
member, the Mayor shall appoint a member to complete the term of vacancy.
   F.   Members of the commission shall receive no compensation for their
services.
   G.   Removal from the commission by the Mayor shall be for cause.
   H.   The commission shall elect one member to serve as Chair and one member
to serve as Vice Chair.
   I.   The Director of Community of Economic Development, or his/her designee,
will be the staff liaison to the commission. (Ord. M-18-17, 8-21-2017)
2-13-4: MEETINGS, QUORUM, VOTING:
Regular meetings of the commission shall be scheduled on a quarterly basis at a
date and time to be determined by the commission and announced in the City
calendar and other appropriate media. Special meetings may be called by the
Mayor, City Council, or Chair of the commission or a quorum of the commission.
Five (5) members shall constitute a quorum. The Chairman shall vote with other
members of the commission. (Ord. M-18-17, 8-21-2017)
2-13-5: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
The commission shall keep written records of its proceedings, which records
shall be open at all times to public inspection. An annual report shall be made
to the City Council to include activities and matters before the commission.
(Ord. M-18-17, 8-21-2017)
2-13-6: POWERS OF THE COMMISSION:
The commission may exercise the following powers under this chapter; provided,
however, that in no event shall the commission encumber City funds or incur
City debt:
   A.   Advising the City on the development and implementation of business
retention/expansion programs;
   B.   Advising the City on the implementation of a marketing program to
attract new business and industry;
   C.   To propose and to assist in the preparation of, designation of, or
plans for, economic development projects and to assist in the undertaking and
carrying out of projects for economic development;
   D.   Monitoring business activity and trends on the local, State, and
national level;
   E.   Establishing a focal point for businesses to approach and discuss
issues that affect them; and
   F.   Engage representatives from community and regional entities such as the
Des Plaines Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Greater O'Hare Airport
Regional Business Association, Main Township School District 207; Oakton
Community College, the Des Plaines Public Library District, the Des Plaines
Special Events Commission, and other entities as appropriate on matters for
economic development. (Ord. M-18-17, 8-21-2017)
2-13-7: PECUNIARY INTEREST OF MEMBERS:
   A.   Any member of the commission who owns or controls any interest direct
or indirect in any property included in any project before the City Council or
commission shall disclose the same in writing to the commission and such
disclosure shall be entered upon the minute book of the commission.
   B.   No member of the commission shall vote or act on any project in which
said member holds an interest. (Ord. M-18-17, 8-21-2017)
CHAPTER 14
YOUTH COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-14-1: Intent And Purpose
2-14-2: Creation And Membership
2-14-3: Organization
2-14-4: Powers And Duties
2-14-5: Meetings
2-14-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
To provide for an appointive advisory body which shall promote, organize and
implement youth events as well as promote opportunities for youth to develop
youth leadership skills. The Youth Commission encourages and empowers the youth
of Des Plaines by providing fun, safe, and creative activities for them and
their families while promoting a spirit of community within the City. (Ord. M-
11-18, 6-4-2018)
2-14-2: CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP:
The Youth Commission, shall consist of nine (9) members, each of whom shall be
citizens of the City. The members of the Youth Commission shall be appointed by
the Mayor with the consent of the City Council. In addition, the Mayor shall be
an ex officio member of the Youth Commission.
   A.   1.   By vote of the membership, one commission member shall be elected
annually from the commission membership to act as Chair of the commission.
      2.   Each member shall serve for a term of four (4) years, or until his/
her successor has been duly appointed and qualified. The terms shall be
staggered so that five (5) of the originally appointed members shall each serve
a two (2) year term and four (4) of the originally appointed members shall each
serve a four (4) year term. Thereafter all appointments made upon the
expiration of the term of any member shall be for a four (4) year term.
   B.   The Mayor shall have the power to remove any member of the Youth
Commission for cause.
   C.   Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of the member or Chair
whose seat has become vacant by appointment of the Mayor with the consent of
the City Council.
   D.   When a commission member has missed four (4) meetings in one calendar
year, or four (4) consecutive meetings, the Chair shall contact said member to
discuss if said member wishes to continue serving on the commission. The Chair
shall subsequently make a recommendation to the Mayor as to the advisability of
said member's continuance on the commission. (Ord. M-11-18, 6-4-2018)
2-14-3: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Members of the Youth Commission shall serve without compensation of any
kind.
   B.   Immediately upon the creation of the Youth Commission, the members of
the commission shall select from its membership a Chair, Vice Chair and a
Secretary.
      1.   The Chair shall run all regular and special meetings of the
commission.
      2.   The Vice Chair shall serve as Acting Chair whenever the Chair is
absent from the meeting.
      3.   The Secretary shall oversee and be responsible for the record of
proceedings and shall prepare the minutes of said commission. A copy of the
minutes shall be forwarded to the City Clerk for distribution and for the
official files of the City. (Ord. M-11-18, 6-4-2018)
2-14-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the Youth Commission to develop, promote and
coordinate a series of youth oriented programming and activities.
   B.   All activities organized by the Youth Commission shall be conducted
within the financial constraints placed upon the commission, as established by
the Mayor and City Council through passage of the annual budget for the City
and in accordance with this Code, including the purchasing policies and
procedures of the City.
   C.   The Youth Commission shall prepare a calendar of events for the City.
Said calendar shall be presented to the Mayor and City Council on a quarterly
basis.
   D.   The Youth Commission shall have the power and authority to solicit and/
or accept commitments of contributions and in-kind services or products in
furtherance of the promotion and/or staging of any youth related events or
educational programming. All funds and in-kind services will be directed to and
made payable to the City of Des Plaines as coordinated by the staff liaison.
   E.   All agreements and contracts must be reviewed and approved by the City
Manager or staff liaison.
   F.   The Youth Commission may collaborate with the Des Plaines school
districts, Des Plaines Park District, Des Plaines Library and other Des Plaines
organizations for the purpose of carrying out the mission of said commission.
   G.   The Youth Commission may organize community activities, seminars,
volunteer opportunities, training/workshops for the benefit of Des Plaines
youth. (Ord. M-11-18, 6-4-2018)
2-14-5: MEETINGS:
The Youth Commission shall meet on a regular basis, as established by the
commission. Special meetings of the commission may be called by the Chair of
said commission. All meetings shall be conducted in compliance with the Open
Meetings Act. (Ord. M-11-18, 6-4-2018)
CHAPTER 15
KEEP DES PLAINES BEAUTIFUL COMMISSION
(Rep. by Ord. M-15-08, 4-21-2008)
CHAPTER 16
SPECIAL EVENTS COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-16-1: Intent And Purpose
2-16-2: Creation And Membership
2-16-3: Organization
2-16-4: Powers And Duties
2-16-5: Meetings
2-16-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
To provide for an appointive advisory body which shall promote, organize and
implement special events of civic, patriotic, educational and cultural nature
in the City of Des Plaines. (Ord. M-10-18, 6-4-2018)
2-16-2: CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP:
The Special Events Commission, shall consist of nine (9) members, each of whom
shall be citizens of the City. The members of the Special Events Commission
shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the City Council. In
addition, the Mayor shall be an ex officio member of the Special Events
Commission.
   A.   1.   By vote of the membership, one commission member shall be elected
annually from the commission membership to act as Chair of the commission.
      2.   Each member shall serve for a term of four (4) years, or until his/
her successor has been duly appointed and qualified. The terms of the members
shall be staggered so that five (5) of the originally appointed members shall
each serve a two (2) year term and four (4) of the originally appointed members
shall each serve a four (4) year term. Thereafter all appointments made upon
the expiration of the term of any member shall be for a four (4) year term.
   B.   The Mayor shall have the power to remove any member of the Special
Events Commission for cause.
   C.   Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of the member or Chair
whose seat has become vacant by appointment of the Mayor with the consent of
the City Council.
   D.   When a commission member has missed four (4) meetings in one calendar
year, or four (4) consecutive meetings, the Chair shall contact said member to
discuss if said member wishes to continue serving on the commission. The Chair
shall subsequently make a recommendation to the Mayor as to the advisability of
said member's continuance on the commission. (Ord. M-10-18, 6-4-2018)
2-16-3: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Members of the Special Events Commission shall serve without
compensation of any kind.
   B.   Immediately upon the creation of the Special Events Commission, the
members of the commission shall select from its membership a Chair, Vice Chair
and a Secretary.
      1.   The Chair shall run all regular and special meetings of the
commission.
      2.   The Vice Chair shall serve as Acting Chair whenever the Chair is
absent from the meeting.
      3.   The Secretary shall oversee and be responsible for the record of
proceedings and shall prepare the minutes of said commission. A copy of the
minutes shall be forwarded to the City Clerk for distribution and for the
official files of the City. (Ord. M-10-18, 6-4-2018)
2-16-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the Special Events Commission to develop,
promote and coordinate a series of community events for the enjoyment and
education of the residents of the City and visitors to the City.
   B.   All activities organized by the Special Events Commission shall be
conducted within the financial constraints placed upon the commission, as
established by the Mayor and City Council through passage of the annual budget
for the City and in accordance with this Code, including the purchasing
policies and procedures of the City.
   C.   The Special Events Commission shall prepare a calendar of events for
the City. Said calendar shall be presented to the Mayor and City Council on a
quarterly basis.
   D.   The Special Events Commission shall have the power and authority to
solicit and/or accept commitments of contributions and in-kind services or
products in furtherance of the promotion and/or staging of any special events.
All funds and in-kind services will be directed to and made payable to the City
of Des Plaines as coordinated by the staff liaison.
   E.   All agreements and contracts must be reviewed and approved by the City
Manager or staff liaison.
   F.   The Special Events Commission may collaborate with the Des Plaines
school districts, Des Plaines Park District, Des Plaines Library and other Des
Plaines organizations for the purpose of carrying out the mission of said
commission.
   G.   The Special Events Commission may organize community activities,
volunteer opportunities, and events for the benefit of Des Plaines residents
and visitors. (Ord. M-10-18, 6-4-2018)
2-16-5: MEETINGS:
The Special Events Commission shall meet on a regular basis, as established by
the commission. Special meetings of the commission may be called by the Chair
of said commission. All meetings shall be conducted in compliance with the Open
Meetings Act. (Ord. M-10-18, 6-4-2018)
TITLE 3
MUNICIPAL DEPARTMENTS
CHAPTER 1
CITY MANAGER'S OFFICE
SECTION:
3-1-1: Department Established
3-1-2: City Manager
3-1-3: City Attorney
3-1-4: Director Of Human Resources
3-1-5: Director Of Health And Human Services
3-1-6: Director Of Information Technology
3-1-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established the department of the city manager's office. The
department shall consist of the city manager and such other officers or
employees as may be provided for by the city council in its annual
appropriation ordinance and budget. (Ord. M-26-07, 5-5-2008)
3-1-2: CITY MANAGER:
   A.   Office Established And Appointment: There is hereby established the
office of the city manager as set forth in section 1-7A-1 of this code.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The powers and duties of the city manager are as set
forth in section 1-7A-4 of this code. (Ord. M-26-07, 5-5-2008)
3-1-3: CITY ATTORNEY:
   A.   Office Established And Appointment: There is hereby established the
office of the city attorney. The city attorney shall be licensed to practice
law in the state. The city attorney shall be appointed by the city manager.
Political considerations shall not be used in the selection or removal of the
city attorney.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The powers and duties of the city attorney shall
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   The city attorney, under the direction of the city manager, shall be
the full time legal advisor to the city and shall advise the city council and
city manager or any department head or officer of the city on all legal matters
in which the interests of the city are involved, including rendering legal
opinions when requested and trying cases. The city attorney shall review all
ordinances and resolutions required by the city council and shall attend all
meetings of the city council, and other meetings when so directed by the city
manager. All records, papers, files and other documents and materials prepared
for the city or used by the city attorney while so employed by the city are the
sole property of the city. The city attorney shall be employed in no other
business, position or occupation whatsoever, or engage in the practice of law
other than for the city; provided, however, that with the consent of the city
manager, the city attorney may be permitted to engage in limited and temporary
outside work where the same does not interfere with the duties of the position.
      2.   The city attorney shall be the head of the legal division and shall
have supervision over all employees of the division and shall be responsible
for the performance of their duties.
      3.   Any attorney other than the city attorney handling a matter on
behalf of the city shall keep for each matter handled a record in which shall
be noted all steps taken in such matter. Upon the completion of such matter or
upon the termination of employment, the attorney shall forthwith turn over to
the city attorney such record and all papers or documents belonging to the city
or prepared in connection with the matter and a statement in writing giving
such information as may be available with respect to the matter.
      4.   All attorneys representing the city shall provide quarterly status
reports on all matters handled by them to the city attorney. The city attorney
shall make quarterly reports to the city council and city manager of all
actions being handled by all attorneys representing the city. Such status
reports shall contain an update of each case, potential dollar amount demanded,
the final settlement amount unless prohibited from disclosure by law, and the
attorney assigned to each case.
      5.   The city attorney shall have settlement authority from zero dollars
($0.00) to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). For claims that exceed five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00), but do not exceed ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00), the city attorney shall recommend settlement to the city manager,
who in turn, if in agreement, will authorize the city attorney to make
settlement in that range. For claims that exceed ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00), but do not exceed fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00), the city
attorney shall recommend settlement to the mayor and the city manager, who in
turn, if they are in agreement, will authorize the city attorney to make
settlement in that range. (Ord. M-26-07, 5-5-2008)
3-1-4: DIRECTOR OF HUMAN RESOURCES:
   A.   Office Established And Appointment: There is hereby established the
office of the director of human resources. The director of human resources
shall be appointed by the city manager. Political considerations shall not be
used in the selection or removal of the director of human resources.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The powers and duties of the director of human
resources shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   Advise and make recommendations to the city council and city manager
on matters of personnel organization and administration;
      2.   Maintain and keep current the position classification and
compensation plan;
      3.   Administer a recruitment and selection program for employment in the
city classified service;
      4.   Administer the maintenance of records of all city employees;
      5.   Administrate the following employee benefit programs: health and
life insurance plan, retirement, safety and workers' compensation and
unemployment insurance;
      6.   Assist with the preparation of salary and benefit cost projections
for the annual city budget as well as ensure required federal, state and
related reports are appropriately filed;
      7.   The director of human resources shall be the head of the human
resources division and shall have supervision over all employees of the
division and shall be responsible for the performance of their duties. (Ord. M-
26-07, 5-5-2008)
3-1-5: DIRECTOR OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES:
   A.   Office Established And Appointment: There is hereby established the
office of the director of health and human services. The director of health and
human services shall be appointed by the city manager. Political considerations
shall not be used in the selection or removal of the director of health and
human services.
   B.   Duties: The duties of the director of health and human services shall
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   Administer social service programs, case management, community
education forums and act as general information and referral agency;
      2.   Administer programs of public health including education on disease
suppression and control, maternal and child health, school health and referral
to local community health programs and services;
      3.   The director of health and human services shall be the head of the
health and human services division and shall have supervision over all
employees of the division and shall be responsible for the performance of their
duties. (Ord. M-26-07, 5-5-2008)
3-1-6: DIRECTOR OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY:
   A.   Office Established And Appointment: There is hereby established the
office of the director of information technology. The director of information
technology shall be appointed by the city manager. Political considerations
shall not be used in the selection or removal of the director of information
technology.
   B.   Duties: The duties of the director of information technology shall
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   Administer the citywide computer system, which consists of servers,
numerous personnel computers, and printers;
      2.   Support the telephone system, citywide financial system, e-mail,
word processing and spreadsheet software, and various other software programs
specific to city departments;
      3.   The director of information technology shall be the head of the
information technology division and shall have supervision over all employees
of the division and shall be responsible for the performance of their duties.
(Ord. M-26-07, 5-5-2008)
CHAPTER 2
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
3-2-1: Department Established
3-2-2: Chief Of Police
3-2-3: Deputy Chiefs Of Police And Police Commanders
3-2-4: Citizens To Aid Police
3-2-5: Police To Aid Other Governmental Entities
3-2-6: General Powers And Duties
3-2-7: Reports
3-2-8: Departmental Rules
3-2-9: Uniforms And Badges
3-2-10: Auxiliary Police Officers
3-2-11: Police Dogs
3-2-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a police department for the public protection of
the city. All sworn officers of the department shall be appointed in accordance
with the provisions of the fire and police commission regulations set forth in
title 2, chapter 6 of this code, except for the exempt positions of police
chief, deputy police chief, and police commander. (Ord. M-26-07, 5-5-2008)
3-2-2: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Office Established And Appointment: There is hereby established the
office of chief of police as the chief officer of the police department. The
police chief shall be appointed by the city manager. Political considerations
shall not be used by the city manager in the selection or removal of the chief
of police.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The police chief shall superintend the police force
of the city and shall have the custody, care and control of the public property
of the department, including all firearms and other equipment thereof, subject
to the orders of the city council and city manager. The police chief shall
devote his or her sole time to preserve the peace and order of the city and
shall execute and enforce all orders of the city council, board of fire and
police commissioners and the city manager, and shall be solely responsible for
the efficient operation of the department. The police chief shall formulate and
establish a set of administrative rules and regulations to govern the operation
of the department. These rules and regulations or any subsequent changes
thereto shall be approved by the city manager before becoming effective and
copies shall be prepared for distribution to all concerned or affected thereby.
The police chief shall see that all members of the department obey these rules
and regulations. (Ord. M-26-07, 5-5-2008)
3-2-3: DEPUTY CHIEFS OF POLICE AND POLICE COMMANDERS:
   A.   Deputy chiefs of police and police commanders shall be positions exempt
from the board of fire and police commissioners' jurisdiction. Deputy chiefs of
police and police commanders shall be hired by the police chief with the
concurrence of the city manager. Selection procedures for the exempt rank of
deputy chief of police and police commander are to be determined by the chief
of police.
   B.   The duties and assignments of the deputy chiefs of police and
commanders shall be as established and determined by the police chief. The
deputy chiefs of police and police commanders shall report to the police chief
or designee as assigned.
   C.   Political considerations shall not be used by the police chief in the
selection or removal of the deputy chiefs of police or police commanders.
   D.   The deputy chiefs of police and police commanders may be removed from
the position by the police chief, with the concurrence of the city manager,
without cause at any time, whereupon said individual would return to his or her
previous rank in the classified service of the police department. (Ord. M-26-
07, 5-5-2008)
3-2-4: CITIZENS TO AID POLICE:
It shall be the duty of any person in the city, eighteen (18) years of age or
older, when called upon by any member of the police department, in case of
emergency, to promptly aid and assist such police officer in the execution of
his police duties. Any person who shall refuse to give such aid and assistance
shall be fined as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. M-26-07, 5-5-2008)
3-2-5: POLICE TO AID OTHER GOVERNMENTAL ENTITIES:
It shall be the duty of the police department to aid the fire department
clearing streets or grounds in the vicinity of the fire, so that members of the
fire department shall not be hindered or obstructed in the performance of their
duties. (Ord. M-26-07, 5-5-2008)
3-2-6: GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Serving Process: The police chief and any police officer shall have
power and authority, and it shall be his or her duty in the city, to serve and
execute warrants and other process for the apprehension and commitment of
persons charged with the violation of any city law or any crime, misdemeanor or
offense against the peace of the state or the city, or held for examination or
trial, or taken on execution for the commission of any crime, misdemeanor or
violation of any law of the city, and while serving or executing, be vested
with and have all the powers and authority conferred upon police officers by
the common law and the laws of the state.
   B.   Arrests Authorized: The members of the police department are hereby
severally authorized to arrest, with or without process, or on view, any person
who shall break the peace or be found breaking the law of the city or any
criminal law of the state, and to take such person before the proper court, or
if necessary detain such person in custody in the city jail, or any other safe
place, until they can be brought before the proper court for trial.
   C.   Serve As Witnesses: All police officers making arrests shall attend as
witnesses before the court where the trial may be had, and shall procure all
necessary evidence in their power, and furnish a list of the witnesses to the
court and the attorney. (Ord. M-26-07, 5-5-2008)
3-2-7: REPORTS:
The chief of police shall prepare the following reports, not to include the
responsibility of individuals to report accidents:
   A.   Arrests: The chief of police shall keep a record in the police
department of the names of all persons arrested or committed to the city jail.
This record shall show the date of arrest or committal, the number of days in
jail, the amount of the fine, when and to whom paid, and the date of discharge
or other disposition of the person.
   B.   Annual Reports: The chief of police shall make an annual report in
writing to the city council and city manager of the state of the police
department, with a detailed statement of the transactions of the police
department for the preceding year, with such statistics and suggestions in
regard to the requirements and improvements of the department as he may deem
advisable; and shall also make reports of any matter or thing concerning the
department whenever requested by the mayor and city council. (Ord. M-26-07, 5-
5-2008)
3-2-8: DEPARTMENTAL RULES:
The members of the police department shall be subject to and perform their
duties under rules and regulations formulated and established by the chief and
approved by the city manager. (Ord. M-26-07, 5-5-2008)
3-2-9: UNIFORMS AND BADGES:
Every member of the police department shall wear a suitable badge 1
, to be furnished by the city, and every regular police officer shall wear a
suitable uniform to be furnished as provided by this code. Any member who shall
lose or destroy the badge or other property furnished to him by the city shall
be required to pay the cost of replacing it. Whenever any member shall leave
the department, the officer shall immediately deliver his badge and all other
articles in his possession belonging to the city to the chief of police, and no
bill for final settlement between the police officer and the city shall be paid
by the city until this last provision has been complied with. (Ord. M-26-07, 5-
5-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  1-7-7F of this code.
3-2-10: AUXILIARY POLICE OFFICERS:
   A.   Appointment: The mayor is hereby authorized to appoint auxiliary police
officers as employees, upon the recommendation of the chief of police and
certification by the city clerk. Prior to appointment, all proposed auxiliary
police officers shall be fingerprinted and their fingerprints shall be checked
with the federal bureau of investigation, Washington, D.C., for any possible
criminal record. No person shall be appointed as an auxiliary police officer if
he has been convicted of a felony or other crime involving moral turpitude. The
appointment of any or all auxiliary police officers may be terminated by the
chief of police.
   B.   Requirements: Such auxiliary police officers shall not be members of
the regular police department of the city. Identification symbols worn by such
auxiliary police officers shall be different and distinct from those used by
the regular police department, and shall be selected and chosen by the chief of
police. Auxiliary police officers shall at all times during the performance of
their duties be subject to the direction and control of the chief of police.
   C.   Powers And Duties: Auxiliary police officers shall have the following
powers and duties, when properly assigned and on duty:
      1.   To aid or direct traffic in the municipality.
      2.   To aid in control of natural or manmade disasters.
      3.   To aid in case of civil disorder.
      4.   To perform normal and regular police duties when assigned by the
chief of police on occasions when it is impracticable for members of the
regular police department to perform normal and regular police duties.
   D.   Restriction: Auxiliary police officers shall not carry firearms except
with the permission of the chief of police and then only when in uniform and in
the performance of their duties.
   E.   Training Required: Prior to entering upon any of their duties,
auxiliary police officers shall receive a course of training in the use of
weapons and other police procedures by the chief of police. Such course of
training shall not be less than that which is mandated by the Illinois Compiled
Statutes.
   F.   Remuneration: Auxiliary police officers shall receive no compensation
for services performed, except in specific instances when recommended by the
chief of police and approved by the city manager. (Ord. M-26-07, 5-5-2008)
3-2-11: POLICE DOGS:
   A.   Teasing, Striking Or Tampering With Police Dog: It shall be unlawful
for any person to intentionally or maliciously:
      1.   Taunt, torment, tease, beat, strike or otherwise harass any police
canine; or
      2.   Administer or subject any desensitizing drugs, chemicals or
substance to a police canine; or
      3.   Interfere or meddle with any police canine used by any law
enforcement officer in the performance of his functions or duties within the
city or when placed in a kennel off duty.
Any person found guilty of a violation of this subsection shall be subject to a
fine as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each and every offense.
   B.   Injuring Or Killing Police Dog: It shall be unlawful for any person to
intentionally or maliciously torture, mutilate, injure, disable, poison or kill
any police canine used by a law enforcement department or agency in the
performance of functions or duties within the city or when placed in a kennel
off duty. However, a police officer or veterinarian may perform euthanasia in
emergency situations when delay would cause undue suffering and pain.
Any person found guilty of a violation of this subsection shall be subject to a
fine not to exceed the cost of replacement and training of the new police
canine. (Ord. M-26-07, 5-5-2008)
CHAPTER 3
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
3-3-1: Department Established
3-3-2: Fire Chief
3-3-3: Fire Department Personnel
3-3-4: Apparatus And Equipment
3-3-5: General Provisions
3-3-6: Enforcement
3-3-7: Emergency Response Reimbursement
3-3-8: Fire And Ambulance Service
3-3-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established the fire department for the prevention and
extinguishment of fire endangering life and property and provision of emergency
medical services within the limits of the city and beyond the city limits where
contractual fire protection agreements have been or may be made. The department
shall consist of the fire chief and such other employees as may be provided for
by the city council in its annual appropriation ordinance and budget. (Ord. M-
26-07, 5-5-2008)
3-3-2: FIRE CHIEF:
   A.   Office Established And Appointment: There is hereby established the
office of the fire chief. The fire chief shall be appointed by the city
manager. Political considerations shall not be used by the city manager in the
selection or removal of the fire chief.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The fire chief shall at all times have full control
and command over all members of the department, the fire apparatus and
equipment belonging to the city, and their usage in accomplishing the
objectives of the department. In addition, the fire chief shall be responsible
for the following activities:
      1.   Formulate and establish a set of administrative rules and
regulations to govern the operations of the department. These rules and
regulations or any subsequent changes thereto shall be approved by the city
manager before becoming effective and copies shall be prepared for distribution
to all concerned or affected thereby. The fire chief shall see that all members
of the department obey these rules and regulations.
      2.   Determine the response of fire apparatus and manpower to alarms and
shall attend those emergencies which in the fire chief's judgment require the
fire chief's presence.
      3.   Conduct suitable training and/or instructions for the members of the
department in fire suppression; emergency medical services; specialized rescue;
and fire prevention, inspection, investigation, and education, and all other
matters essential to good firemanship and the safety of life and property from
fire or other hazards. The fire chief may delegate the instruction to the
training division or other especially qualified instructors who have knowledge
and skills in particular subjects.
      4.   Keep or cause to be kept complete records of all fires, inspections,
investigations, apparatus and equipment, hose records, purchase and maintenance
costs of equipment, personnel, attendance at meetings and at fires, and all
other pertinent information about the department and its operation. A station
logbook, permanently bound, shall be kept at all fire stations by the watch
officer on duty there, showing the firefighters on duty on each shift, the
firefighters responding to alarms and drills, the firefighters out of the
station on inspection work, and all other fire station activity, all in
chronological order.
      5.   Submit a monthly report to the city manager containing information
on fire department operations, inspections, education, training, number and
types of emergency responses, and other pertinent information deemed necessary
to keep the city council up to date with fire department activities.
      6.   Render a complete annual report in writing to the city council and
city manager. Said report to include summaries of the information required in
the preceding subsections herein, together with the fire chief's
recommendations for improving the effectiveness of the department.
      7.   Consult with city officials and the police and fire commission at
all times so that the rules and regulations the fire chief may prescribe for
the governance of the department are not at variance with state law and the
rules of the commission.
      8.   Bring formal charges to the police and fire commission against any
member of the fire department for the incompetency, neglect of duty,
disobedience to orders, or flagrant violation of any rule and regulation of the
department, and pending a hearing before the commission of such charges, the
fire chief may suspend the member charged from duty until the commission can
make its investigation and adjudicate the charges.
      9.   Cause to be investigated the cause, origin and circumstances of all
fires within the department's jurisdiction. The fire chief shall immediately
report all suspicious fires to the police department for appropriate police
action.
      10.   Have authority to enter, or cause to be entered by subordinates any
and all buildings and premises for the purpose of making inspections or
investigating fires and their causes, and shall serve written notice on such
building owners or occupants of property to abate, within a specified
reasonable time, any and all fire hazards found and ordered abated.
      11.   Have the power to modify the provisions of any fire safety law when
there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter
of the law; provided, the spirit of the law is observed and the modification is
clearly stated in writing.
      12.   Execute such other duties and responsibilities as the city manager
may direct.
      13.   With the concurrence of the city manager, execute on behalf of the
city all indemnification, hold harmless and liability releases in favor of or
against the city and/or fire department in relation to any and all programs
involving the use of any and all structures, apparatus and equipment belonging
to the fire department and in relation to any and all training programs and/or
trainees. (Ord. M-26-07, 5-5-2008)
3-3-3: FIRE DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL:
   A.   Deputy fire chiefs, fire division/battalion chiefs, and training
division chief/safety officer shall be positions exempt from the board of fire
and police commissioners' jurisdiction. Deputy fire chiefs, fire division/
battalion chiefs, and training division chief/safety officer shall be hired by
the fire chief with the concurrence of the city manager. Selection procedures
for the exempt sworn ranks of deputy fire chief and fire division/battalion
chief, and for the exempt civilian position of training division chief/safety
officer are to be determined by the fire chief.
   B.   The duties and assignments of the deputy fire chiefs, fire division/
battalion chiefs, and training division chief/safety officer shall be as
established and determined by the fire chief. The deputy fire chief(s) shall
report to the fire chief. The fire division/battalion chiefs and training
division chief/safety officer shall report to the deputy fire chiefs as
assigned.
   C.   Political considerations shall not be used by the fire chief in the
selection or removal of the deputy fire chiefs, fire division/battalion chiefs,
and training division chief/safety officer.
   D.   The deputy fire chiefs, division/battalion chiefs, and training
division chief/safety officer may be removed from the position by the fire
chief, with the concurrence of the city manager, without cause at any time. In
such instance, a deputy fire chief or division/battalion chief would return to
his or her previous board of fire and police commissioners' rank in the fire
department. (Ord. M-38-11, 9-19-2011)
3-3-4: APPARATUS AND EQUIPMENT:
The city council shall determine with the advice and counsel of the fire chief,
the amount, type and size of all fire apparatus and equipment comprising the
fire department and shall purchase, repair or replace any and all fire
apparatus and equipment and accessories they deem necessary as provided by
state law. In addition:
   A.   The city council shall designate and provide safe and convenient
housing for all fire apparatus and equipment.
   B.   The city council shall establish suitable arrangements for notifying
all members of the department of alarms of fire, and it is incumbent upon
members to arrange for forwarding alarms to themselves when they are called
away from home or their place of business.
   C.   No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment of the city for any
private purpose; nor shall it be used by any other department of the city
without the express permission of the fire chief; nor shall any person wilfully
and without proper authority take away or conceal any article used in any way
by the fire department.
   D.   The mayor is hereby authorized, with the approval of the city council,
to enter into agreements with the contiguous fire protection districts,
properly formed under state law, and adjacent municipalities; provided, such
agreements shall specify that the officer in charge of the fire department
shall have the authority to refuse response to such calls if, in his or her
judgment, the absence of fire apparatus would unduly endanger the protection of
the city. (Ord. M-26-07, 5-5-2008)
3-3-5: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
The following general provisions shall apply to the operation of the fire
department:
   A.   Badge Of Office: The city shall furnish every member of the department
with a badge designating his or her rank in the department 1
.
   B.   Interference, Refuse To Aid: No person shall interfere with a
firefighter in the performance of his or her duty, nor shall they refuse or
neglect to furnish any member of the fire department any help or information
they may possess as to the cause or origin of any fire, or hinder any fire
investigation in any manner.
   C.   Fire Flow/Hydrant Test Fee: Any and all requests for hydrant tests and/
or fire flow tests, whether from an individual or outside agency, shall be made
to the fire prevention bureau and such tests shall be witnessed by the Des
Plaines fire department. Fees shall be charged for such tests as follows:
 
Telephone request for fire flow information or test results on file No charge
Request for a copy of fire flow test results of test information on $11.00
file
Fire flow/hydrant test conducted by individual/agency witnessed by  27.50
fire department
Fire flow/hydrant test conducted by individual agency using fire    55.00
department test equipment and witnessed by fire department
Fire flow/hydrant test conducted by fire department                 110.00
 
Prior to conducting any test and/or forwarding any test results, a check made
out to the city for the appropriate fees must be received by the fire
prevention bureau. (Ord. M-26-07, 5-5-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  1-7-7F of this code.
3-3-6: ENFORCEMENT:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to the general penalty provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition:
   A.   All members of the fire department are hereby given the necessary
police powers for enforcing this chapter applying at the scene of an emergency
incident.
   B.   Any member of the department violating the rules and regulations of the
department or who is guilty of the charges brought against him or her before
the fire and police commissioners may be fined, suspended for a specified time
without pay, or discharged from the department as the commission shall
determine and direct. (Ord. M-26-07, 5-5-2008)
3-3-7: EMERGENCY RESPONSE REIMBURSEMENT:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following words and
terms shall have the following meanings:
   CITY: Any department or division of the city of Des Plaines.
   COVERED EXPENSES: All costs and expenses incurred by the city and by any
mutual aid and automatic aid responders that are in any way related to a
hazardous materials incident response, including, without limitation, the
cleanup and abatement of hazardous materials, the extinguishing of any fire
involving hazardous materials, the provision of medical services, the
restoration of public and private property damaged by, or during the response
to, a hazardous materials incident, and any legal action in any way related to
or arising from a hazardous materials incident. Covered expenses include,
without limitation, actual labor costs, including, without limitation, workers'
compensation benefits, fringe benefits, administrative overhead, and attorney
fees; any medical expenses, immediate or long term, of personnel exposed to
hazardous materials; the cost of equipment operation, damage, or loss; the cost
of materials used or consumed during a response to a hazardous materials
incident; and the cost of any labor and materials furnished by any contractors
hired by the city to assist in a response to a hazardous materials incident.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location or other characteristics, is determined by the
chief of the city fire department, or his authorized representative, based upon
a reasonable degree of scientific certainty, to pose an unreasonable and
inordinate risk to the life, health, or safety of persons or property or to the
ecological balance of the environment. Hazardous materials include, without
limitation, explosives, compressed gases, asbestos, flammable and combustible
liquids, flammable and water reactive solids, oxidizers and peroxides, poisons,
radioactive materials, corrosives or other regulated materials, or any
substance determined to be hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law,
statute or regulation.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INCIDENT: Any incident involving the spill, leak,
release, seepage, emission, ignition, or combustion of any hazardous material
on public or private property.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY: Any person or entity who owns, possesses, or controls any
hazardous materials involved in a hazardous materials incident, or who in any
way caused, or contributed to the cause of, a hazardous materials incident.
Responsible parties include, without limitation, any persons or entities in
immediate control of hazardous materials involved in a hazardous materials
incident; the shipper, manufacturer, distributor, and transporter of hazardous
materials involved in a hazardous materials incident; and any other persons or
entities who caused or contributed to the cause of a hazardous materials
incident.
   B.   Hazardous Materials Incidents Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person, with or without fault, to release, emit, spill, or leak any hazardous
material on public or private property.
   C.   Reimbursement Of Covered Expenses: All responsible parties shall be
strictly liable and jointly and severally liable for all covered expenses in
any way related to any response by the city and any mutual aid or automatic aid
responders to a hazardous materials incident. Responsible parties shall
reimburse the city and any mutual aid or automatic aid responders for all
covered expenses not later than ten (10) days after receipt of notice thereof
from the city.
   D.   Use Of Reimbursement Funds: The reimbursement funds may be used by the
city and any mutual aid and automatic aid responders to offset any covered
expenses and to replace and replenish any supplies used to respond to a
hazardous materials incident. Such supplies may include, without limitation,
protective clothing, absorbants, neutralizing chemicals, detection and
monitoring equipment, firefighting foams and chemicals, and equipment and
supplies damaged or destroyed during the response to the hazardous materials
incident.
   E.   Remedies: In addition to any other remedies available to the city at
law or equity, the city may file a civil suit and obtain a judgment against any
responsible party who does not reimburse the city in accordance with the
provisions of this section. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to relieve
any party from any other obligations or responsibilities that it may have to
any other agency or party under any other law.
   F.   Penalty: In addition to any other applicable penalties, violations of
any provision of this section are punishable in accordance with section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has
been served shall be deemed a separate offense. In addition to any covered
expenses, violators of any provision of this section must reimburse the city
for all costs and expenses, including, without limitation, attorney fees, court
costs, and administrative expenses, incurred by the city to enforce the
provisions of this section and to obtain a judgment for any amounts due and
owing to the city in accordance with the provisions of this section. (Ord. M-
14-14, 5-19-2014)
3-3-8: FIRE AND AMBULANCE SERVICE:
   A.   Service Outside City:
      1.   Applicability: This subsection A shall apply to all parcels of land
bordering the corporate limits of the city that are not protected by a fire
protection district or another municipal fire department and that request and
receive service from the Des Plaines fire department. This subsection A does
not apply to parcels of land that receive service from the Des Plaines fire
department pursuant to a mutual aid fire agreement.
      2.   Fee Structure: The rates for fire and ambulance service to
properties covered by this subsection are as follows:
         a.   Three hundred thirty dollars ($330.00) for responding to a
medical emergency plus one hundred ten dollars ($110.00) per hour for each
emergency medical apparatus utilized to mitigate the emergency and the cost of
all medical supplies used because of said emergency.
         b.   Five hundred fifty dollars ($550.00) for responding to a fire,
rescue or hazardous materials emergency, plus one hundred ten dollars ($110.00)
per hour for each emergency apparatus utilized to mitigate the emergency, the
cost for all damaged, destroyed or spent equipment, the cost for utilizing city
water, and city overtime costs related to said fire, rescue or hazardous
materials emergency.
      3.   Payment: All fees for fire and ambulance service due and owing to
the city pursuant to this subsection shall be paid not later than ten (10) days
after the receipt of notice thereof.
      4.   Limitations: All laws, ordinances, and regulations relating to fire
service within the city in this chapter and in the city fire code, as they may
be amended from time to time, shall be in full force and effect in all
locations to which this subsection applies.
   B.   Ambulance Fees:
      1.   Purpose: Ambulance fees are established for the purpose of defraying
a portion of the costs incurred by the city related to the transportation,
treatment and evaluation of persons by the Des Plaines fire department.
      2.   Ambulance Fees Established:
         a.   Ambulance Service Fee: Each person who receives ambulance
transportation or emergency medical services from the City will be charged an
ambulance user fee in an amount equal to the amount listed in the most recent
Ground Emergency Medical Transport (GEMT) program report reflecting the actual
cost incurred for the treatment and transport of residents and nonresidents, as
appropriate, plus a mileage fee of $15.00 per mile traveled during the
transport of the patient. Specifically, but without limitation, all Advanced
Life Support (ALS1 and ALS2) calls will be charged at the GEMT-approved rate
for ALS service, and all Basic Life Support (BLS) calls will be charged at the
GEMT-approved rate for BLS service.
      b.   No Transport Ambulance Fee: There is hereby established an
evaluation/treatment/no-transport ambulance fee of $250.00 for patients who are
medically evaluated or treated by the fire department but who are not
transported to a medical facility.
   3.   Collection Of Fees: The director of finance shall cause a bill to be
issued and sent to the person who was transported by ambulance or evaluated/
treated and not transported and/or the person's insurance company. When the
patient is a City resident, the resident will not be billed for any remaining
charges that may exist once final payment has been received from all insurance
providers for the resident, including deductibles, copays, or any other amounts
due out of pocket. When the patient is a non-City resident, the person will be
billed for any remaining charges that might exist once final payment has been
received from all insurance providers. All fees collected in conformance with
this section shall be deposited in the general fund of the city or other fund
for the purpose of providing funds for the future replacement of life safety
vehicles or equipment as may be determined by the corporate authorities of the
city.
   4.   Collection of Unpaid Fees: The City may bring an action to collect any
unpaid ambulance service fee pursuant to City policy.
   5.   Waiver/Reduction of Fees: The city manager, or the city manager's
designee, may waive or reduce an ambulance service fee or a no transport
ambulance service fee when:
         a.   the fee is not paid in full by insurance, Medicare, Medicaid, or
public aid and there is an established hardship based upon the recommendation
of competent authority (e.g., collection agency, legal counsel, the Illinois
Health Care Services Lien Act, 770 ILCS 23/1 et. seq.); or
         b.   the patient being charged sustained no injury and suffered no
illness and did not request the ambulance service.
         c.   Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to make the City or
any of its officers, agents, or employees responsible for any damages to
persons or property by reason of the provision of paramedic service or
ambulance service as provided herein.
   C.   Lift-Assist Fee: Effective January 1, 2020, there is hereby established
a lift-assist fee to be assessed to an individual when the fire department
responds and provides lifting or moving assistance to such individual who has
not sustained or potentially-sustained an injury or acute illness but who
requests lifting or moving services of the fire department, as follows:
Number of Occurrences per Calendar Year Fee Per Occurrence
Number of Occurrences per Calendar Year Fee Per Occurrence
0-6                                     $0.00
7-9                                     $100.00
10-12                                   $150.00
13-15                                   $200.00
16-18                                   $250.00
19-21                                   $300.00
22-24                                   $350.00
Over 24                                 $400.00
 
      1.   Collection of Unpaid Fees: The City may bring an action to collect
any unpaid lift-assist fee pursuant to City policy. (Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-2014;
amd. Ord. M-8-16, 4-18-2016, eff. 5-1-2016; Ord. M-25-19, 10-21-2019; Ord. M-
14-24, 10-7-2024)
CHAPTER 4
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
SECTION:
3-4-1: Department Established
3-4-2: Director Of Finance
3-4-3: Appropriations
3-4-4: Contracts
3-4-5: Disbursements For Public Improvements
3-4-6: Annual Tax Levy
3-4-7: Bond Register
3-4-8: Disposition Of Unclaimed Property
3-4-9: Special Assessments
3-4-10: Payment Of Monies
3-4-11: Warrants; Signatures
3-4-12: Custody And Report Of Funds
3-4-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established the department of finance. The department shall
consist of the director of finance and such other employees as may be provided
for by the city council in its annual appropriation ordinance and budget. (Ord.
M-26-07, 5-5-2008)
3-4-2: DIRECTOR OF FINANCE:
   A.   Office Established And Appointment: There is hereby established the
office of director of finance. The director of finance shall be appointed by
the city manager. Political considerations shall not be used by the city
manager in the selection or removal of the director of finance.
   B.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   The director of finance shall have all powers and duties of
treasurer as set forth in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-35-40. The
director of finance shall also be ex officio city collector, but for the
service shall receive no additional compensation beyond his or her compensation
as director of finance. The director of finance shall also direct, coordinate
and be responsible for the collection, investment, budgeting and disbursement
of all city funds. The director of finance shall also exercise and perform such
further duties relating to city finances and other related duties as may be
assigned by the city manager.
      2.   The director of finance shall be the head of the department of
finance and shall have supervision over all employees of the department and
shall be responsible for the performance of their duties. (Ord. M-26-07, 5-5-
2008)
3-4-3: APPROPRIATIONS:
   A.   Appropriation Ordinance: The city council shall pass before the end of
the first quarter of the fiscal year an ordinance to be termed the "annual
appropriation ordinance"; it shall appropriate such sums of money as may be
deemed necessary to defray all necessary expenses and liabilities of the city
for the current fiscal year and in such ordinance shall specify the objects and
purposes for which such appropriations are made, and the amount appropriated
for each object and purpose. The total projected general fund balance in the
ordinance for the end of the fiscal year shall not be less than twelve percent
(12%) of the total budgeted expenditures for that fiscal year. The city's
fiscal year shall commence on January 1 of each year 1
.
   B.   Limitations On Liabilities Of Approved Appropriations: Neither the city
council nor any department or officer of the city shall exceed fund
expenditures in any one year anything over and above the amount provided for in
the annual appropriation bill of that year, except as herein otherwise
specially provided; and no expenditure for an improvement to be paid for out of
the general fund of the corporation shall exceed, in any one year, the amount
provided for such improvement in the annual appropriation bill; provided,
however, that nothing herein contained shall prevent the city council from
ordering, by a two-thirds (2/3) vote, any improvement, the necessity of which
is caused by any casualty or accident happening after such appropriation is
made. The city council may, by a like vote, order the mayor and city
administration to borrow a sufficient amount to provide for the expense
necessary to be incurred in making any improvements, the necessity for which
has risen, as is herein mentioned, for a space of time not exceeding the close
of the next fiscal year; which sum, and the interest, shall be added to the
amount authorized to be raised in the next general tax levy, and embraced
therein. Should any judgment be obtained against the corporation, the city
administration, under the authority of the city council, may borrow a
sufficient amount to pay the same, for a space of time not exceeding the close
of the next fiscal year, which sum and interest shall in like manner be added
to the amount authorized to be raised in the general tax levy of the next year,
and embraced therein. (Ord. M-26-07, 5-5-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  1-3-3 of this code.
3-4-4: CONTRACTS:
   A.   No contract shall be hereafter made by the city council, or any
committee or member thereof, and no expense shall be incurred by any of the
officers or departments of the city, whether the object of the expenditure
shall have been ordered by the city council or not, unless an appropriation
shall have been made concerning such expense, except as herein otherwise
expressly provided.
   B.   All change orders to construction contracts originally awarded by the
city council must receive approval from the city council. Bid specifications of
all construction contracts shall indicate same.
   C.   Plans and specifications being drawn for any work to be completed by
the city must be previously submitted to the permitting departments prior to
advertising for bids, for review and comment.
   D.   No claim whatsoever will be allowed to the contractor for changes,
extra work, or material not included in the contractor's original bid, or for a
greater amount of money than the contract states is to be paid, for any reason,
including, but not limited to, subsurface or latent physical conditions, or
unknown physical conditions at the site, unless the change in, or addition to
the work, and/or change in the amount of money to be paid to the contractor is
first ordered in writing by the director of engineering, and the additional
price paid is agreed to in writing by the engineer and contractor and approved
by the city council.
   E.   The contractor is responsible for making a careful examination of the
site of the proposed work, the bid documents, specifications, general
conditions, plans, special provisions and contract forms before submitting his
bid. The contractor is responsible for fully understanding the quality and
quantity of materials required and the character of the work to be performed.
The contractor shall further make an investigation of the site prior to
submitting his bid.
   F.   The provisions of this section shall apply in lieu of the provisions of
30 Illinois Compiled Statutes 557/10 and 557/20. (Ord. M-26-07, 5-5-2008)
3-4-5: DISBURSEMENTS FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
No plan, program or contract involving the installation of public improvements,
by private contract, such as streets, sidewalks, sewers, water mains and
similar facilities, shall be entered into or approved by any officer or agency
on behalf of this city unless said plan, program or contract shall require the
escrow of sufficient funds to pay for the public improvement to be installed as
a result thereof and unless the terms of the escrow agreement shall require the
approval and signature of the city engineer or, in his absence, of the city
manager before any of the funds are disbursed to any person in payment for the
improvements. (Ord. M-26-07, 5-5-2008)
3-4-6: ANNUAL TAX LEVY:
   A.   Annual Levy: The city council shall annually determine the total amount
of appropriations for corporate purpose legally made and to be collected from
the tax levy of that fiscal year; and by an ordinance specifying in detail the
purposes for which the appropriations are made, and the sum or amount
appropriated for each purpose respectively, levy the amount so ascertained upon
all the property subject to taxation within the city as the same is assessed
and equalized for state and county purposes for the current year. A certified
copy of the ordinance shall be filed with the county clerk, whose duty it shall
be to ascertain the rate percent, which upon the total valuation of all the
property subject to taxation within the city, as the same is assessed and
equalized for state and county purposes, will produce a net amount not less
than the amount so directed to be levied; and it shall be the duty of the
county clerk to extend such tax in a separate column in the books of the
collectors of the state and county taxes within the city.
   B.   Collection Of Tax: The tax so assessed shall be collected and enforced
in the same manner and by the same officers as state and county taxes, and
shall be paid over by the officers collecting the same to the director of
finance.
   C.   Uniformity Of Taxes: All taxes levied or assessed by the city, except
special assessments and special service areas shall be uniform upon all taxable
property and persons within the limits of the city, and no property shall be
exempt therefrom except such property as may be exempt from taxation under the
constitution and general laws of the state. (Ord. M-26-07, 5-5-2008)
3-4-7: BOND REGISTER:
The director of finance or designee shall keep a bond register, showing all
outstanding bonds of the city, the number, date of issuance and of expiration,
the rate of interest and date of each interest payment, the name and address of
the person to whom issued, out of which fund payable, and if payable out of a
special assessment fund, the installment number to which the bonds belong. When
any city bonds are purchased, paid, or canceled, the register shall show such
fact; and an annual report shall describe, particularly, the bonds sold or paid
during the year, the terms of sale or amount paid, and with each and every item
of expense thereof. (Ord. M-26-07, 5-5-2008)
3-4-8: DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY:
All funds and intangible personal property held for the owner by the city,
including any income or increment thereon that has remained unclaimed by the
owner for more than seven (7) years after it became payable or distributable,
is presumed abandoned and shall become property of the city. All funds shall be
deposited in the city treasury and all other abandoned property shall be sold
by the director of finance to the highest bidder at a public sale. (Ord. M-26-
07, 5-5-2008)
3-4-9: SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS:
   A.   Duties: The director of finance shall, as ex officio city collector,
preserve and execute all special assessment warrants, special tax and other
warrants which by law may be directed and delivered for the collection of city
taxes or revenues. The director of finance shall cause due publication to be
made of the receipt of the various warrants as provided by law, give proper
notification to the property owners and taxpayers of the receipt of the
warrants, prepare the necessary bills on all warrants, as required by law, in
ample time so that the bills shall all be in the mail on or before January 1 of
the year in which they become due and payable. The director of finance shall
take steps to do all acts and things necessary for the prompt collection of all
bills and special assessment taxes as the same become due and payable. Upon
receipt of the monies collected, the director of finance shall make the proper
entries showing the installment collected, the amount thereof, the amount of
interest collected, and shall also make the proper entries against each lot,
tract or parcel, upon receipt of the money collected, showing a receipt of the
same. The director of finance shall also prepare a delinquent return, including
the assessments against all property past due, and shall file the delinquent
tax list as required by law, and shall perform such other duties as now are or
hereafter may be imposed by law and the provisions of this code.
   B.   Unpaid Special Assessment Bills: Any person, applying for special
assessment bills which are past due and delinquent, shall be required to pay to
the city the sum of three dollars ($3.00) for each bill so furnished by the
director of finance.
   C.   Subdivision Plats: The director of finance shall review and, where
appropriate, sign all subdivision plats indicating that there are no
outstanding special assessments on property to be subdivided. However, in the
absence of the director of finance, the director's designee shall be authorized
for the purpose of signing such plats.
   D.   Special Assessment Funds: All money received on any special assessment
shall be held by the director of finance as a special fund, to be applied to
the payment of the improvement for which the assessment was made, and the money
shall be used for no other purpose except to reimburse the city for money
expended for such improvements. (Ord. M-26-07, 5-5-2008)
3-4-10: PAYMENT OF MONIES:
   A.   By Director: No monies shall be paid by the director of finance upon
any warrant except from the monies belonging to the particular fund or
appropriation upon which the warrant shall have been drawn; nor shall money be
transferred from one fund to another after it has been received; nor
appropriated to any other purpose than that for which it shall have been
collected or paid, without the vote of a majority of the city council.
   B.   Nonsufficient Fund Payments To City: A twenty five dollar ($25.00) fee
shall be assessed for all nonsufficient fund payments owed to the city under
this code. After a second nonsufficient fund payment, all subsequent payments
shall be paid in cash or with a certified check. (Ord. M-26-07, 5-5-2008)
3-4-11: WARRANTS; SIGNATURES:
All warrants drawn upon the treasury must be signed by the mayor and
countersigned by the city clerk, stating the particular fund or appropriation
to which the same is chargeable, and the person to whom payable; and no money
shall be paid otherwise than upon such warrants so drawn. Any money specified
in a warrant shall be paid by a check or electronic funds transfer authorized
by any two (2) of the following officers: mayor, city clerk, city manager,
assistant city manager, director of finance, assistant director of finance, or
financial analyst. (Ord. M-29-09, 6-15-2009)
3-4-12: CUSTODY AND REPORT OF FUNDS:
   A.   Custody: The director of finance shall keep all money belonging to the
city separate and distinct from any personal funds. The director of finance is
hereby expressly prohibited from using, either directly or indirectly, the city
money or warrants and keeping same for personal use and benefit or that of any
other person whomsoever. Any violation of this section shall subject the
director of finance to immediate removal from office by the city manager.
   B.   Reports: The director of finance shall, every month, render an account
under oath to the city council, and the report or account shall be delivered to
the city council chair of the finance and administration committee. The account
shall show the state of the treasury at the date of the account, the balance of
the money in the treasury and an income statement showing all the revenues and
expenditures of the city. Additionally, the director of finance shall keep an
accurate register of all warrants redeemed and paid, showing the number, date
and amount of each, the fund from which paid and the name of the person to whom
and when paid. The director of finance shall cancel all warrants as soon as
redeemed in writing and stamping across the face thereof the word "paid" with a
notation of the date paid. (Ord. M-26-07, 5-5-2008)
CHAPTER 5
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
3-5-1: Department Established
3-5-2: Director Of Community And Economic Development
3-5-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
   A.   There is hereby established the department of community and economic
development. The department shall consist of the director of community and
economic development and such other employees provided for by the city council
in its annual appropriation ordinance and budget.
   B.   All references in this code, the building, zoning, subdivision and all
other codes, ordinances, resolutions and motions, and rules and regulations of
the city to the building department, the department of municipal development,
the department of building and code enforcement, and the department of planning
and zoning shall henceforth be construed to refer to and mean the department of
community and economic development. (Ord. M-26-07, 5-5-2008)
3-5-2: DIRECTOR OF COMMUNITY AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Office Established And Appointment: There is hereby established the
office of the director of community and economic development. The director of
community and economic development shall be appointed by the city manager.
Political considerations shall not be used by the city manager in the selection
or removal of the director of community and economic development.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The powers and duties of the director shall include,
but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   Supervision of all of the duties of the director of municipal
development, director of planning and zoning and the zoning administrator as
set forth in this code, in the zoning ordinance, in the subdivision ordinance,
and in all other ordinances, resolutions and motions and rules and regulations
of the city. All references in said code, the zoning ordinance, the subdivision
ordinance and all other ordinances, resolutions and motions and rules and
regulations of the city to director of municipal development, director of
planning and zoning and zoning administrator shall henceforth be construed to
refer to and mean under the direction and supervision of the community and
economic development director.
      2.   Prepare, recommend and maintain in a continuously updated manner, a
comprehensive plan and official map and exercise all the powers conferred by 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-12-4 et seq., of the Illinois municipal code.
      3.   Administer and enforce the zoning ordinance and in furtherance of
said authority perform such duties of the zoning administrator as required by
the zoning ordinance. (Ord. M-26-07, 5-5-2008)
      4.   Administer and enforce the subdivision ordinance and in furtherance
of said authority review all plats of subdivision and submit a written
recommendation for approval or disapproval to the planning and zoning board.
(Ord. M-26-07, 5-5-2008; amd. Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
      5.   Conduct special studies relating to the development and renewal of
the municipality as may be referred from time to time by the city council or
city manager.
      6.   Review and submit recommendations to the city council upon all
proposals to amend the zoning and subdivision ordinances and other such
ordinances as the city council or city manager may refer to the department.
      7.   Advise the city council and city manager on all matters affecting
growth and development of the city when requested or required.
      8.   Review all annexation and deannexation proposals and submit, upon
request, recommendations to the city council and city manager.
      9.   a.   The director may establish such rules and regulations, policies
and procedures as he may deem necessary for the conduct of the business or
programs administered or handled by the department.
         b.   Such rules and regulations shall include, but not be limited to,
creation of any application forms for processing matters reviewed by the
department.
         c.   For the purposes of review of Cook County 6(b) property tax
abatement incentives, an administrative application fee, not exceeding seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) may be charged to the applicant.
      10.   Administer and enforce the building code and ordinance and in
furtherance of said authority the community and economic development director
shall perform such duties as set forth in the building code of the city.
      11.   Review and submit recommendations to the city council and city
manager upon all proposals to amend the building code and other such ordinances
as the city council or city manager may refer to the department.
      12.   Establish liaison and close working relationships with the other
administrative offices of the city and other area governmental agencies and
institutions in order for plans of the area to be coordinated.
      13.   The director of community and economic development shall be the
head of the department of community and economic development and shall have
supervision over all employees of the department and shall be responsible for
the performance of their duties. (Ord. M-26-07, 5-5-2008)
CHAPTER 6
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND ENGINEERING
SECTION:
3-6-1: Department Established
3-6-2: Director Of Public Works And Engineering
3-6-3: Motor Fuel Tax; Improvements
3-6-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established the department of public works and engineering. The
department shall consist of the director of public works and engineering and
such other employees as may be provided for by the city council in its annual
appropriation ordinance and budget. (Ord. M-31-09, 7-20-2009)
3-6-2: DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS AND ENGINEERING:
   A.   Office Established And Appointment: There is hereby established the
office of the director of public works and engineering. The director of public
works and engineering shall be appointed by the city manager. Political
considerations shall not be used by the city manager in the selection or
removal of the director of public works and engineering.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The duties of the director of public works and
engineering shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   Prepare or superintend the preparation of plans, specifications and
contract documents for public improvements within the jurisdiction of the city
council and the board of local improvements.
      2.   Be in charge of the inspection, field engineering and surveying
required for public improvements of the city.
      3.   Be in charge of all surveys required by the city, together with the
preparation of all maps, plats and charts required for public improvements or
the official records of the city.
      4.   Prepare or superintend the preparation of all profiles, the taking
of all levels and the establishment of all grades for public improvements,
including the establishment of street and sidewalk grades for the city.
      5.   Be the official engineer of the city council and city manager and
superintend and supervise all public improvements and work that is directed to
be performed by the city council and/or the city manager.
      6.   Assist the city attorney in the preparation, drafting and drawing of
all ordinances, resolutions and contracts for all public, semipublic or special
work and in all litigation regarding public improvements or in matters of which
the city may be interested, rendering such assistance as may be required.
      7.   Conduct such investigations, inspections, analyses and reports, and
perform such duties as may be required by the city council and city manager in
connection with rights of way, traffic, transportation and utility franchises,
buildings and structures or other public infrastructure functions of the city.
      8.   Execute on behalf of the city all grants of easement (temporary and
permanent) that are necessary for the furtherance of public improvement
projects overseen by the department of public works and engineering.
      9.   Ensure the inspection of all connections made to the sewer system
and the water supply system of the city.
      10.   Be in charge of all repairs to and maintenance of public
improvements and public works.
      11.   Regulate and control the manner of using the streets, alleys,
highways, easements and other places of the city for the erection of utility
poles or other poles and posts.
      12.   Regulate and control the laying of pipes, conduits or sewers
authorized by law or the city.
      13.   Determine the location thereof and cause the prompt repair of
streets, alleys, highways and public places when the same are taken up or
altered; provided, however, that the abatement and removal of all nuisances
affecting health shall be in the special charge and control of the city
sanitarian.
      14.   The director of public works and engineering shall be the head of
the department of public works and engineering and shall have supervision over
all employees of the department and shall be responsible for the performance of
their duties.
   C.   Enforce Regulations: It shall be the duty of the director of public
works and engineering to enforce all regulations of this or any other code of
the city relating to the water or sewer system and to perform such other duties
as may be required by enactment of the city council. Upon violation of any
provision of this or any other code, the director of public works and
engineering shall make a complaint before the proper court against all persons
found to have violated any such provisions.
   D.   Reports: The director of public works and engineering shall, when
required by the city council or city manager, inquire into and report upon any
matter pertaining to public works or engineering, and shall, from time to time,
communicate to the city council and city manager any information or suggestion
which may be deemed important in relation thereto. The director of public works
and engineering shall, when required by the city council or city manager,
report verbally or in writing to them on all matters under the jurisdiction of
the director. (Ord. M-31-09, 7-20-2009; amd. Ord. M-9-25, 4-21-2025)
3-6-3: MOTOR FUEL TAX; IMPROVEMENTS:
The director of public works and engineering shall be in charge of all public
improvement work undertaken by the city with motor fuel tax funds. The director
shall supervise and superintend the preparation of surveys, plans,
specifications, inspections and construction required on motor fuel tax
improvements. In addition, the director shall be in charge of the drafting of
all applications for public improvement work authorized by the city council in
connection with federal, state and local work programs and aid, together with
such administration thereof as may be properly construed as engineering work.
(Ord. M-31-09, 7-20-2009)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS REGISTRATION
SECTION:
4-1-1: Purpose
4-1-2: Definitions; Construction
4-1-3: Registration
4-1-4: Process
4-1-5: Registration Fee
4-1-6: Inspections
4-1-7: Registration Certificate
4-1-8: Conditions Of Registration
4-1-9: Enforcement And Penalties
4-1-10: Appeal
4-1-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the general health, safety, and
welfare of the city and its residents by identifying and registering all places
of business located within the city. The city requires the general registration
of all places of business to ensure the efficient delivery of city services,
including police, fire, and emergency medical services, and to promote
compliance with all zoning, building, fire, and health codes and any other
applicable ordinances and regulations. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-1-2: DEFINITIONS; CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   The following words and phrases as used in this chapter shall have the
following meanings, unless a different meaning is required by the context:
   BUSINESS: Any vocation, occupation, profession, enterprise, establishment,
concern, or other type of activity, together with all devices, machines,
equipment, vehicles, and appurtenances used therein.
   FLOOR AREA: The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of a
building, structure, or portion thereof, devoted to use by a business,
including accessory storage areas located within selling or working space such
as counters, racks, or closets, and any basement floor area devoted to
retailing activities, to the production or processing of goods, or to business
or professional offices.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, limited
liability company, trust, or other legal entity, except for governmental bodies
properly organized under the law of the state of Illinois or the United States
Of America.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS: Any parcel, zoning lot, building, structure, or portion
thereof, whether owned, leased, or licensed, that is used by a business for the
purpose of conducting all principal and accessory activities of the business.
   B.   With the exception of those duties and responsibilities assigned to the
mayor or the city council, wherever a responsibility is assigned to a specific
officer, official or employee of the city in this chapter, that responsibility
may be carried out by that officer, official or employee or his or her
designee. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-1-3: REGISTRATION:
   A.   Registration Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain
or operate a place of business in the city, without first having registered the
place of business in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Licenses: The conduct of certain businesses may be subject to
additional licensing regulations by the city pursuant to chapter 2 of this
title and other provisions of this title. Businesses required to obtain a
license from the city must also register all places of business.
   C.   Multiple Businesses In A Single Location: If multiple businesses
operate within a single place of business, each business will be required to
register that place of business separately, subject to permitted fee exemptions
set forth in section
4-1-5 of this chapter.
   D.   Single Businesses With Multiple Locations: If a person maintains,
operates, or manages multiple places of business throughout the city, all of
which are associated with a single business, that person will be required to
register each place of business separately. A place of business consisting of
multiple buildings or structures will be considered a single place of business
if all of the buildings or structures: 1) are under common ownership, control,
management, or operation; and 2) are located on the same parcel or zoning lot
or contiguous parcels or zoning lots and are physically connected with common
access points from the public right of way.
   E.   Exemptions: Any home occupation conducted in compliance with the
requirements and regulations set forth in the zoning ordinance shall not be
required to register its place of business. (Ord. M-75-14, 1-5-2015)
4-1-4: PROCESS:
   A.   Application: Persons seeking to register a place of business shall file
a written application with the director of community and economic development
on a form provided by the city, which application shall include the following
information:
      1.   If the applicant is an individual, the application shall include the
name, residence address, and telephone number of the applicant. If the
applicant is a partnership or firm, the application shall contain the names,
residence addresses, and telephone numbers of each of its members; if a limited
partnership, the names, residence addresses, and telephone numbers of each
general partner thereof; if a corporation, the names, residence addresses, and
telephone numbers of its principal officers; and if a limited liability
company, the names, residence addresses, and telephone numbers of each member
and/or manager. The person submitting the application shall also be required to
provide his or her name, residence address, telephone number, and driver's
license or state or federal government issued identification card number.
      2.   The name of the business as registered with the secretary of state
of Illinois as well as any assumed names under which the applicant conducts
business.
      3.   The address and telephone number of the place of business.
      4.   The business's Illinois business tax (IBT) certificate number and
the business's federal employee identification number (FEIN), if applicable.
      5.   A description of the business (nature of goods or services sold,
produced, or offered, etc.).
      6.   The floor area of the place of business in square feet and the
corresponding registration fee.
      7.   The name, address, telephone number, and e-mail address for a
designated emergency contact person and the owner of the place of business
being registered.
      8.   Any additional information that the director of community and
economic development determines is necessary for the evaluation of the
application.
All applications must be signed by a person who is authorized to make
representations on behalf of and bind the business.
   B.   Term: Business registration certificates will be issued annually for a
period commencing on January 1 and expiring on December 31. All applications
for business registration and renewals thereof must be filed with the
department of community and economic development no later than December 15 of
each year.
   C.   Approval Of Business Registration: After receiving an application for a
business registration, the director of community and economic development shall
review the application to determine if it is complete and accurate and shall
verify with the zoning administrator that the applicant's proposed use of the
place of business complies with the requirements of the zoning ordinance. If
the director of community and economic development determines that the
application is complete and that the proposed use complies with the zoning
ordinance, the director shall recommend that the city manager issue a business
registration certificate for the place of business subject to inspection for
compliance with all zoning, building, fire, health codes and any other
applicable ordinances and regulations. The city manager shall sign and issue a
business registration certificate for the place of business no later than seven
(7) days after receiving a recommendation from the director of community and
economic development. The director of community and economic development shall
promptly inform the applicant of the issuance of the business registration
certificate. The business registration certificate shall include the name of
the business, the address of the place of business, the date of expiration and
bear the signatures of the city manager and the city clerk. A copy of each
business registration certificate issued by the city will be maintained by the
director of community and economic development.
   D.   Denial Of Business Registration: In the event the director of community
and economic development determines that the applicant or the application does
not meet the standards and requirements for the approval of a business
registration as described in this section, the director shall recommend that
the city manager not issue a business registration certificate for the place of
business. Upon receiving such a recommendation, the city manager will issue a
written notice of denial to the applicant no later than seven (7) days after
receiving a recommendation from the director of community and economic
development. The notice of denial will state the grounds for denial. Grounds
for denial of a business registration may include the following:
      1.   Fraud, misrepresentation of a material fact, or false statement by
the applicant on the application;
      2.   The existence of any outstanding indebtedness of the business to the
city, in the form of any unpaid fees, taxes, or fines that are in arrears more
than thirty (30) days from the date accrued;
      3.   A determination by the zoning administrator that the business or use
proposed is not a permitted or approved conditional use of the place of
business pursuant to the zoning ordinance; and
      4.   The presence of a violation of any zoning, building, fire, or health
code or any other applicable ordinances and regulations at the place of
business.
An applicant may submit a revised application after correcting any of the
deficiencies or issues identified in the notice of denial and, if the original
registration fee has been refunded, paying a registration fee in the full
original amount set forth in section
4-18-1 of this title for a new application. An applicant may appeal a decision
to deny a business registration in accordance with the procedures set forth in
section
4-1-10 of this chapter.
Whenever a business registration is not approved and the applicant has not
commenced operation of the place of business sought to be registered, the
registration fee paid in advance shall be refunded to the applicant by the
director of finance.
   E.   Renewal: Applications for renewals of business registration shall be
made in the same manner as described for new applications in this section.
Applications for renewals must clearly state if any information has changed
since the original application.
   F.   Transfer Of Registration: No business may assign, sell, loan, convey,
or transfer its registration to any other person, even if such other person
intends to conduct the same business at place of business. Such other person
must apply and pay the fee for a new registration in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-1-5: REGISTRATION FEE:
   A.   Annual Fee: The annual fee for a business registration must be paid at
the time an application or renewal application is submitted. In the event that
a business registration cannot be issued at the time application for same is
made, the director of community and economic development shall issue a receipt
to the applicant for the fee paid in advance. All such receipts shall have
plainly indicated thereon that the receipt of payment of the business
registration fee is not to be construed as the approval of a business
registration. No such receipt, or the payment of any fee in advance of the
issuance of the business registration certificate in due form, shall entitle or
authorize any person to any of the rights or privileges conferred by the
issuance of a business registration certificate or to the operation or
maintenance of any place of business contrary to any provision of this code.
The annual fee for a business registration will be as set forth in the fee
schedule in section
4-18-1 of this title and calculated based on the floor area of the place of
business that is devoted to use by the applicant's business. All measurements
of floor area shall be rounded to the nearest integral square foot; if a
fraction is one-half (1/2) square foot or more, the floor area will be rounded
up to the next highest integral square foot.
   B.   Late Filing Penalty: A late filing penalty in the amount of twenty five
percent (25%) of the applicable annual fee will be applied to applications for
business registration, or renewals thereof, submitted more than thirty (30)
days after the filing deadline set forth in subsection
4-1-4B of this chapter. A failure to file an application for a business
registration within sixty (60) days after the filing deadline, except as
specifically permitted in subsection D of this section, shall be considered a
failure to register the place of business and will constitute a violation of
this chapter.
   C.   Fee Exemptions: The following types of businesses will be exempt from
paying the annual fee for business registration, but shall still be required to
register their places of business:
      1.   Religious corporations registered with the state of Illinois;
      2.   Charitable organizations registered with the Illinois attorney
general pursuant to the Illinois solicitation for charity act 1
;
      3.   Additional businesses located in a place of business already
registered, on the condition that: a) all businesses located in a single place
of business are owned, controlled, and operated by the same person and b) there
be no discernible distinction or physical separation between portions of the
place of business used by the respective businesses; and
      4.   All governmental bodies, including agencies, departments, and
political subdivisions of the state of Illinois or the United States Of
America. (Ord. M-75-14, 1-5-2015)
   D.   Proration: Any applicant seeking to register a new place of business
shall be required to pay the full annual business registration fee set forth in
section
4-18-1 of this title if the business registration application is made on or
between January 1 and June 30 of any year. If a business desires to commence
operation in a place of business after July 1 of any year, the fee to register
that place of business will be reduced by fifty percent (50%) for that
registration period.
   E.   No Refund: In no event shall the nonuse of the place of business or
discontinuance of operation of the business entitle an applicant to a rebate or
refund of any portion of an annual fee paid for a business registration.
   F.   Moving A Place Of Business: In the event a business moves from one
place of business in the city to another, separate place of business in the
city during the term of a business registration period, the business will be
required to apply for a new business registration corresponding to the new
place of business and pay the required annual fee all in accordance with the
provisions set forth in this chapter. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 460/0.01 et seq.
4-1-6: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Compliance Inspections: The city manager shall make or cause to be made
all inspections of a registered place of business that he determines to be
necessary to ensure that the place of business is maintained and operated in
compliance with all zoning, building, fire, and health codes and any other
applicable ordinances and regulations.
   B.   Consent To Inspection: By submitting an application for a business
registration, the applicant shall consent to inspection of the place of
business by city officers or employees for the purpose of verifying compliance
with all zoning, building, fire, and health codes and any other applicable
ordinances and regulations. It shall be the duty of the applicant to admit any
officer or employee of the city who is duly authorized to conduct an inspection
into the place of business for the purpose of conducting such inspection at any
reasonable time that such entry and inspection is requested by the city. (Ord.
M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-1-7: REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE:
   A.   Display Of Certificate: A business must display its current and
effective business registration certificate in a prominent location in its
place of business at all times. It shall be unlawful to display an expired,
revoked or suspended business registration certificate. The city has the right
to enter upon a registered place of business at any time for the purpose of
removing an expired, revoked or suspended business registration certificate.
   B.   Replacement Of Lost Or Damaged Certificate: In the event a business
loses or damages its business registration certificate, it must promptly
request a duplicate of the certificate from the director of community and
economic development and provide an affidavit attesting to the loss or damage
to the original certificate. The business will be required to pay a fee for a
duplicate business registration certificate in the amount set forth in section
4-18-1 of this title.
   C.   Transfer Of Registration Certificate: No business may assign, sell,
loan, convey, or transfer its business registration certificate to any other
person, even if such other person intends to conduct the same business at the
same place of business. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-1-8: CONDITIONS OF REGISTRATION:
No registered place of business in the city may be operated or used:
   A.   In a manner that constitutes a nuisance in fact;
   B.   In violation of any local zoning, building, fire, or health codes or
any other applicable ordinances and regulations, or any state or federal laws,
rules, or regulations;
   C.   In an unsanitary or unsafe manner, or
   D.   Without first obtaining all required licenses or certificates required
by the State of Illinois. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013; amd. Ord. M-9-22, 4-4-2022)
4-1-9: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   General Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this chapter,
where no other penalty is specifically provided, shall be fined as provided in
the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   B.   Emergency Suspension Of Business Registration: When the operation of
any place of business shall constitute a nuisance in fact and a clear and
present danger to the public health, safety, or general welfare, the city
manager shall be authorized to summarily order the cessation of business, the
closing of the place of business and the suspension of the business
registration for a period not to exceed ten (10) days. Within seven (7) days
after he or she has so acted, the city manager shall call a hearing for the
purpose of determining whether the business registration should be suspended
for an additional period of time or revoked.
   C.   Suspension Or Revocation Of Business Registration: Business
registrations may be suspended for up to thirty (30) days or revoked by the
city manager after notice and hearing as provided below for any of the
following causes:
      1.   Fraud, misrepresentation of a material fact, or false statement by
the applicant on the application for the business registration certificate;
      2.   Any violation by the business of any zoning, building, fire, or
health code or any other applicable local, state, or federal rules, ordinances
and regulations at the place of business;
      3.   Failure to obtain and maintain in good standing all required
licenses and certificates required by the state;
      4.   Failure to pay any outstanding indebtedness of the business to the
city, in the form of any unpaid fees, taxes, or fines that are in arrears more
than thirty (30) days from the date accrued, more than ten (10) days after the
director of finance has issued a demand for payment to the business; or
      5.   Refusal to permit an inspection or any interference with a duly
authorized city officer or employee while in the performance of his or her
duties in making an inspection of the place of business.
The suspension or revocation of a business registration may be in addition to
any fine imposed pursuant to the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   D.   Effect Of Suspension Or Revocation: Any business whose business
registration is suspended or revoked shall immediately discontinue the
registered business for which the license was issued. No person whose business
registration has been revoked as herein provided shall be eligible to register
the same place of business during the period for which the revoked registration
was originally issued.
   E.   Hearings: The hearings on business registration suspension or
revocation matters shall be conducted by the city manager at a time and place
designated by the city manager. Notice of the hearing for suspension or
revocation of a business registration shall be given in writing setting forth
specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be sent by certified mail (return receipt requested)
to the business at the address of the place of business provided in the most
recently submitted business registration application no later than five (5)
days prior to the date set for the hearing. Based upon the record of such
hearings, the city manager shall make a finding and shall sustain, modify or
rescind any official notice or order considered at the hearing. A written
report of the hearing decision shall be furnished to the business. (Ord. M-19-
13, 10-7-2013; amd. Ord. M-9-22, 4-4-2022)
4-1-10: APPEAL:
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the city manager in regard to the
denial of an application for a business registration, or the suspension or
revocation of a business registration, shall have the right to appeal to the
city council. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the city manager within
ten (10) days after the notice of denial, suspension, or revocation, a written
statement under oath setting forth specifically the grounds for appeal. The
city council shall thereupon set the time and place for a hearing on such
appeal, and notice of such hearing shall be given to the business in the same
manner as provided in subsection
4-1-9E of this chapter. The decision of the city council on such appeal shall
be by a vote of a majority of all members elected to the city council and shall
be final. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
CHAPTER 2
BUSINESS LICENSES - GENERALLY
SECTION:
4-2-1: Purpose And Construction
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-3: Business Licenses
4-2-4: Application
4-2-5: Inspections, Investigations, And Bond
4-2-6: Issuance Or Denial Of License
4-2-7: License Term; Renewal
4-2-8: License Fees
4-2-9: License Certificates, Tags, And Stickers
4-2-10: Conditions Of License
4-2-11: Enforcement And Penalties
4-2-12: Appeal
4-2-1: PURPOSE AND CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter and all subsequent provisions of this title
is to regulate the manner in which certain businesses are conducted in the city
for the purpose of promoting the general health, safety and welfare of the city
and its residents.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter shall apply generally to the issuance of
business licenses, except as otherwise specifically provided for in subsequent
chapters of this title. In the event that a subsequent chapter of this title
includes a more specific or distinct process, procedure, or requirement than
those set forth in this chapter, the provisions of that chapter shall govern.
   C.   With the exception of those duties and responsibilities assigned to the
mayor or the city council, wherever a duty or responsibility is assigned to a
specific officer, official or employee of the city in this chapter or
subsequent chapters of this title, that responsibility may be carried out by
that officer, official or employee or his or her designee. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-
2013)
4-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases as used in this chapter shall have the
following meanings, unless a different meaning is required by the context:
BUSINESS: Any vocation, occupation, profession, enterprise, establishment,
concern, or other type of activity, together with all devices, machines,
equipment, vehicles, and appurtenances used therein.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, limited
liability company, trust, or other legal entity, except for governmental bodies
properly organized under the law of the state of Illinois or the United States
Of America.
PLACE OF BUSINESS: Any parcel, zoning lot, building, structure, or portion
thereof, whether owned, leased, or licensed, that is used by a business for the
purpose of conducting all principal and accessory activities of the business.
(Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-2-3: BUSINESS LICENSES:
   A.   Licenses Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct,
engage in, maintain, operate, or manage a business for which a license is
required by any provision of this code, without first having obtained a license
for such business.
   B.   Registration: Any business maintaining or operating a place of business
in the city shall also be required to register its place of business pursuant
to chapter 1 of this title.
   C.   Multiple Licenses: If any business falls into more than one of the
categories requiring a license under this title, a separate license shall be
obtained for each category. Building contractors engaging in multiple building
trades will only be required to obtain a single building contractor's license.
(Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-2-4: APPLICATION:
Persons seeking to obtain a business license shall file a written application
for the license with the director of community and economic development on a
form provided by the city, which application shall include the following
information:
   A.   If the applicant is an individual, the application shall include the
name, residence address, and telephone number of the applicant. If the
applicant is a partnership or firm, the application shall contain the names,
residence addresses, and telephone numbers of each of its members; if a limited
partnership, the names, residence addresses, and telephone numbers of each
general partner thereof; if a corporation, the names, residence addresses and
telephone numbers of its principal officers; and if a limited liability
company, the names, residence addresses, and telephone numbers of each member
and/or manager. The person submitting the application shall also be required to
provide his or her name, residence address, telephone number, and driver's
license or state or federal government issued identification card number.
   B.   The name of the business as registered with the secretary of state of
Illinois as well as any assumed names under which the applicant conducts
business.
   C.   The address and telephone number of the place of business.
   D.   The name, address, telephone number, and e-mail address for a
designated emergency contact person and the owner of the place of business
wherein the licensed business is to be conducted.
   E.   The business's Illinois business tax (IBT) certificate number and the
business's federal employee identification number (FEIN), if applicable.
   F.   A description of the business (nature of goods or services sold,
produced, or offered, etc.) and the license desired.
   G.   The license fee.
   H.   Any additional information that may be required by any other licensing
provision of this code or that the director of community and economic
development determines is necessary for the evaluation of the application.
All applications must be signed by a person who is authorized to make
representations on behalf of and bind the business. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-2-5: INSPECTIONS, INVESTIGATIONS, AND BOND:
   A.   Inspections: The city manager shall make or cause to be made all
inspections of the premises, vehicles, equipment or methods of operation used
in conducting a licensed business that he determines to be necessary to ensure
compliance with any provision of this code or to detect violations thereof.
   B.   Consent To Inspection: By submitting an application for a business
license, the licensee shall consent to inspection of the premises, vehicles,
equipment or methods of operation used in conducting a licensed business for
the purpose of verifying compliance with any provision of this code or to
detect violations thereof. It shall be the duty of the licensee or person in
charge of such premises, vehicles, equipment or methods of operation to permit,
at any reasonable time, any officer or employee of the city who is authorized
or directed to make such inspections to be admitted to such premises, to have
access to such vehicles or equipment, and to observe such methods of operation
for the purpose of making said inspections.
Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably necessary to
secure conformance with any provision of this code or to detect violations
thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee, upon request, to give any
authorized officer or employee of the city requesting the same sufficient
samples of such material or commodity for such analysis.
   C.   Investigations: Where a provision of this code authorizes or
necessitates an investigation or inspection by any department or official of
the city before the issuance of a license, and requires the approval by such
department or official regarding the character or fitness of any applicant for
a license, or regarding the proper location or condition of the premises in
which the business for which a license is applied is to be managed, conducted,
operated or carried on, or regarding the condition and nature of the equipment
and methods intended to be used by the applicant in such business, occupation
or activity, then the director of community and economic development shall
promptly transmit to each department or official charged with the investigation
and approval of any such application, such information as may be necessary in
order that the authorized or required investigation or inspection may be made.
Each such department head or official shall make any necessary investigation or
inspection, and shall note the results thereof on the license application.
Within ten (10) days after the receipt of said information from the director of
community and economic development, the department head or official shall also
note on the license application a recommendation for either approval or
disapproval of the issuance of such license. The director of community and
economic development shall then be notified accordingly.
   D.   Bond: Before a license is granted, any bond or insurance required to be
given by any person to the city under the licensing provisions of this code
shall be approved as to form by the director of finance. The director of
finance shall also cause an investigation to be made of the sureties on any
license bond, and a license shall be granted only if he shall find that such
sureties are good. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-2-6: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Issuance Of License: If the director of community and economic
development determines, based on the city's investigations, that an application
is complete and is satisfied that the applicant has complied with all
applicable provisions of this code regulating the business, the director shall
recommend that the city manager issue a business license certificate for the
business. The city manager shall sign and issue a business license certificate
for the place of business no later than seven (7) days after receiving a
recommendation from the director of community and economic development. The
director of community and economic development shall promptly inform the
applicant of the issuance of the business license certificate.
The business license certificate shall include the name of the business, the
address of the place of business, description of the license category, the date
of expiration and bear the signatures of the city manager and the city clerk. A
copy of each business license certificate issued by the city will be maintained
by the director of community and economic development.
   B.   Denial Of License: In the event the director of community and economic
development determines that the applicant or the application does not meet the
standards and requirements for the issuance of a license, the director shall
recommend that the city manager not issue a license for the place of business.
Upon receiving such a recommendation, the city manager will issue a written
notice of denial to the applicant no later than seven (7) days after receiving
a recommendation from the director of community and economic development. The
notice of denial will state the grounds for denial. Grounds for denial of a
license may include the following:
      1.   Fraud, misrepresentation of a material fact, or false statement by
the applicant on the application;
      2.   The existence of an outstanding indebtedness of the business to the
city, in the form of any unpaid fees, taxes, or fines are in arrears more than
thirty (30) days from the date they were accrued;
      3.   A determination by the zoning administrator that the business or use
proposed is not a permitted or approved conditional use of the place of
business pursuant to the zoning ordinance; and
      4.   The presence of a violation of any zoning, building, fire, or health
code or any other applicable ordinances and regulations at the place of
business.
An applicant may submit a revised application after correcting any of the
deficiencies or issues identified in the notice of denial and, if the original
license fee has been refunded, paying a license fee in the full original amount
set forth in section
4-18-1 of this title for a new application. An applicant may appeal a decision
to deny a license in accordance with the appeal procedures set forth in section
4-2-12 of this chapter.
Whenever a license is not approved and the applicant has not engaged in the
business, occupation or activity for which the license was sought, the license
fee paid in advance shall be refunded to the applicant by the director of
finance upon authorization from the city manager. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-2-7: LICENSE TERM; RENEWAL:
   A.   General; Term: Business licenses will be issued annually for a period
commencing on January 1 and expiring on December 31. All applications for
business licenses and renewals thereof must be filed with the department of
community and economic development no later than December 15 of each year.
   B.   Renewal: Applications for renewals of business licenses shall be made
in the same manner as described for new applications in this section.
Applications for renewals must clearly state if any information has changed
since the original license application. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-2-8: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Fees: All fees and charges for a business license must be paid at the
time an application or renewal application is submitted. In the event that a
license cannot be issued at the time application for same is made, the director
of community and economic development shall issue a receipt to the applicant
for the money paid in advance. All such receipts shall have plainly indicated
thereon that the receipt of payment of the license fee is not to be construed
as the issuance of a license. No such receipt, or the payment of any license
fee in advance of the issuance of the license in due form, shall entitle or
authorize any person to any of the rights or privileges conferred by the
issuance of any license or to the opening or maintaining of any business or
establishment contrary to any provision of this code. All fees and charges will
be as set forth in the fee schedule in section
4-18-1 of this title. In the event that a background check is required to be
conducted as part of a license application process, the applicant shall pay the
fee set forth in section
4-18-1 of this title for each such background check.
   B.   Late Filing Penalty: A late filing penalty in the amount of twenty five
percent (25%) of the applicable license fee or charge will be applied to
applications for licenses, or renewals thereof, submitted more than thirty (30)
days after the filing deadline set forth in subsection
4-2-7A of this chapter. A failure to file an application for a business license
within sixty (60) days after the filing deadline, except as specifically
permitted in subsection C of this section, shall be considered a failure to
obtain or renew the license and will constitute a violation of this chapter.
   C.   Proration: An applicant for a license for a new business shall be
required to pay the full annual license fee specified in this code if
application for a license is made on or between January 1 and June 30 of any
year. If an applicant seeks to commence operation of a business after July 1 of
any year, the license fee will be reduced by fifty percent (50%) for that
license period.
   D.   No Refund: In no event shall the discontinuance of operation of the
business entitle an applicant to a rebate or refund of any portion of an annual
fee paid for a business license. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-2-9: LICENSE CERTIFICATES, TAGS, AND STICKERS:
   A.   Display:
      1.   A business must display its current and effective business license
certificate in a prominent place at its place of business at all times. It
shall be unlawful to display an expired, revoked or suspended business license
certificate. The city has the right to enter upon a licensed place of business
at any time for the purpose of removing an expired, revoked or suspended
business license certificate.
      2.   For business licenses associated with vehicles, machinery, or
equipment, the director of community and economic development shall furnish
each licensee with a certificate, tag or sticker for each vehicle or piece of
machinery or equipment licensed. The licensee shall post each such certificate,
tag, or sticker in a conspicuous place on or inside the licensed vehicle, piece
of machinery or equipment.
   B.   Replacement: In the event a business loses or damages a license
certificate, tag, or sticker, it must promptly request a duplicate of the
certificate, tag, or sticker from the director of community and economic
development and provide an affidavit attesting to the loss or damage to the
original. The business will be required to pay a fee for a duplicate license
certificate, tag, or sticker in the amount set forth in section
4-18-1 of this title.
   C.   Transfer: No licensee may assign, sell, loan, convey, or transfer a
business license certificate, tag, or sticker to any other person, even if such
other person intends to conduct the same business as the licensee at the
location used by the licensee.
   D.   Alteration; Removal:
      1.   No person may add to, alter, deface, forge or counterfeit any
license certificate or tag, or sticker which has been issued by the city.
      2.   No person may destroy, obliterate, take, remove or carry away
without the consent of the owner any license certificate, tag, or sticker which
has been issued by the city except that said certificate, tag, or sticker may
be removed after the licensed business has been discontinued or the licensed
premises have been abandoned. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-2-10: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Prohibited Operations: No licensed business in the city may be
operated:
      1.   In a manner that constitutes a nuisance in fact;
      2.   In violation of any zoning, building, fire, or health codes or any
other applicable ordinances and regulations; or
      3.   In an unsanitary or unsafe manner.
   B.   Change Of Location: If a licensee desires to change the location of the
place of business of the licensed business before the expiration of the license
term, the licensee must provide the director of community and economic
development with written notice no less than ten (10) days in advance of such
proposed move. No licensed business shall be engaged in or conducted at a new
location until notice of such change has been given as herein provided, and
until such licensee shall have complied with all the provisions of this code
relating to the conduct of such business at such new location, including the
approval of the department head or official of the city who originally approved
the application for said license and including compliance with all applicable
zoning, building, fire, or health codes or other ordinances and regulations.
(Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-2-11: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   General Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this chapter,
where no other penalty is specifically provided, shall be fined as provided in
the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   B.   Emergency Suspension Of Business License: When the operation of any
place of business shall constitute a nuisance in fact and a clear and present
danger to the public health, safety, or general welfare, the city manager shall
be authorized to summarily order the cessation of business, the closing of the
place of business and the suspension of the business license for a period not
to exceed ten (10) days. Within seven (7) days after he or she has so acted,
the city manager shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether
the business license should be suspended for an additional period of time or
revoked.
   C.   Suspension Or Revocation Of Business License: Business licenses may be
suspended for up to thirty (30) days or revoked by the city manager after
notice and hearing as provided below for any of the following causes:
      1.   Fraud, misrepresentation of a material fact, or false statement by
the applicant on the application for the business license;
      2.   Any violation by the business of any zoning, building, fire, or
health code or any other applicable ordinances and regulations by the business;
      3.   Upon conviction of the licensee of violation of any provision of
this code or any statutes of the state relating to the business for which such
license was issued;
      4.   Upon conviction of the licensee of any felony or of a misdemeanor
when such conviction indicates the licensee's inability to operate a safe,
honest, or legitimate business operation;
      5.   Failure to pay outstanding indebtedness of the business to the city,
in the form of any unpaid fees, taxes, or fines that are in arrears more than
thirty (30) days from the date they were accrued, more than ten (10) days after
the director of finance has issued a demand for payment; and
      6.   Refusal to permit an inspection or sampling or any interference with
a duly authorized city officer or employee while in the performance of his or
her duties in making such inspection.
The suspension or revocation of a business license may be in addition to any
fine imposed pursuant to the general penalty provisions of this code.
   D.   Effect Of Suspension Or Revocation: Any business whose license is
suspended or revoked shall immediately discontinue the business for which the
license was issued. No person whose business license has been revoked as herein
provided shall be eligible for a new license during the period for which the
revoked license was originally issued.
   E.   Hearings: The hearings on business license suspension or revocation
matters shall be conducted by the city manager at a time and place designated
by him. Notice of the hearing for suspension or revocation of a business
license shall be given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the
complaint and the time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be sent by
certified mail (return receipt requested) to the business at the address of the
place of business provided in the most recently submitted business license
application no later than five (5) days prior to the date set for the hearing.
Based upon the record of such hearings, the city manager shall make a finding
and shall sustain, modify or rescind any official notice or order considered at
the hearing. A written report of the hearing decision shall be furnished to the
business.
   F.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this chapter, where no
other penalty is specifically provided, shall be fined as provided in the
general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord.
M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-2-12: APPEAL:
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the city manager in regard to the
denial of an application for a business licensee, or the suspension or
revocation of a business license, shall have the right to appeal to the city
council. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the city manager within ten
(10) days after the notice of denial, suspension or revocation, a written
statement under oath setting forth specifically the grounds for appeal. The
city council shall thereupon set the time and place for a hearing on such
appeal, and notice of such hearing shall be given to the business in the same
manner as provided in subsection
4-2-11E of this chapter. The decision of the city council on such appeal shall
be by a vote of a majority of all members elected to the city council and shall
be final. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
CHAPTER 3
TEMPORARY EVENT LICENSES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Purpose
4-3-2: Temporary Event Or Sale Licenses; Generally
4-3-3: Temporary Event
4-3-4: Seasonal Retail Locations
4-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to ensure that temporary events and sales,
including certain events, seasonal retail locations, and occasional residential
sales are conducted in compliance with all zoning, building, fire, and health
codes and any other applicable ordinances, and regulations, and orders so as to
promote and protect the general health, safety, and welfare of the city and its
residents. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013; amd. Ord. M-10-20, 8-3-2020)
4-3-2: TEMPORARY EVENT OR SALE LICENSES; GENERALLY:
   A.    License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to own, promote,
conduct, engage in, operate or manage a temporary event, seasonal retail
location, or occasional residential sale described in this chapter without
first having obtained a license.
   B.    Applications for License: Applications for temporary event or sale
licenses shall be made in conformity with the general requirements of this code
relating to applications for licenses. Applications must be submitted to the
director of community and economic development no later than fourteen (14) days
prior to the date the temporary event or sale is to commence. Additional
application requirements for the various types of temporary event or sale
licenses are set forth more specifically in this chapter.
   C.    Fee: The license fees for the various types of temporary events and
sales are set forth in section
4-18-1 of this title. Such fees shall not be applicable to any governmental
bodies, including agencies, departments, and political subdivisions of the
state of Illinois or the United States of America.
   D.   Conditions of License for Temporary Events and Sales: No temporary
event or sale conducted in the city may be operated:
      1.   In a manner that constitutes a nuisance as defined in Section
5-3-1 of this Code or results in nuisance in fact due to a negative impact on
the public health, safety or welfare;
      2.   In violation of any zoning, building, fire, or health codes or any
other applicable ordinances and regulations or lawful order of the Mayor issued
in response to a civil emergency; or
      3.   In an unsanitary or unsafe manner. including, without limitation,
the potential to spread contagious or infectious diseases during a pandemic,
epidemic, or other declared emergency.
   E.   Penalty: Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to the following penalties:
      1.   A fine in the amount set out in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense;
      2.   Immediate suspension and revocation of any temporary event or sale
license issued by the City; provided, however, that licensees shall be entitled
to a hearing before the City Manager prior to revocation of a suspended
temporary event license pursuant to the provisions of Section
4-2-11 of this Code; and
      3.   Prohibition of the issuance of additional temporary event or sale
licenses for the violating premises for a period of one year.
A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues. Owners of property hosting a temporary event or
sale as well as the recipient of the temporary event or sale license shall be
jointly and severally liable for all penalties issued pursuant to this Section.
(Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013; amd. Ord. M-75-14, 1-5-2015; Ord. M-10-20, 8-3-2020)
4-3-3: TEMPORARY EVENT:
   A.   Definition: For the purposes of this chapter "temporary event" is
defined as:
      1.   Any exhibition, performance, presentation or show, or organized
gathering offered for public participation, including, but not limited to, any
theatrical, dramatic, musical, athletic, spectacular performance; or
      2.   Any entertainment, political, recreational, religious activity
offered for public participation that will be conducted on public property or
on private property that is outdoors, not specifically classified for such use
under the city's zoning ordinance, in a facility that does not maintain a
business license or registration contemplating public gatherings, or is
reasonably anticipated to increase demand on City services, including police,
fire, and traffic control. Temporary events include, but are not limited to,
any race/walk, festival, concert, circus, carnival, parade, rally, religious
service, company or organization picnic, and fireworks display.
   B.   Supplemental Application Requirements: In addition to the general
license application requirements, persons seeking a temporary event or sale
license for a temporary event must also provide the director of community and
economic development with the following as part of their application
submission:
      1.   An agreement to indemnify and hold the city, its officials,
officers, employees and agents harmless from any claims arising from the
issuance of the temporary event or sale licenses in a form approved by the city
attorney;
      2.   A copy of the applicant's valid and effective certificates of
insurance indicating that the applicant has both commercial general liability
and workers' compensation insurance coverage; provided, if the temporary event
will be conducted on public property, that the city be named as an additional
insured;
      3.   A site plan or diagram of the location or the route on which the
temporary event will be held showing all buildings, structures, proposed
temporary improvements, and seating areas;
      4.   If the temporary event will involve seating for members of the
public, the seating capacity of the location in which the temporary event will
be conducted;
      5.   If the temporary event is to be conducted on, or requires the use
of, public property, a maintenance deposit in the amount set forth in section
4-18-1 of this title; and
      6.   The application fee in the amount set forth in section
4-18-1 of this title.
   C.   Additional Requirements:
      1.   Inspection: The city manager shall make or cause to be made all
inspections of the premises, vehicles, equipment or methods of operation to be
used in conducting the temporary event that he determines to be necessary to
ensure compliance with all zoning, building, fire, or health code or any other
applicable ordinances or regulations.
      2.   Investigation: The chief of police shall make or cause to be made
such investigation of the applicant, as he determines to be necessary including
the fingerprinting of the applicant/owner, manager or any employee, agent, or
subcontractor of the applicant to determine whether the applicant is qualified
to engage in business. No license shall be issued to any applicant who does not
comply with the applicable requirements of this code. The chief of police shall
indicate on the application for a license the results of his investigation, and
his recommendation to approve or deny the application. In addition to any other
fees assessed in this chapter, a fee in the amount set forth in section
4-18-1 of this title shall be paid by the applicant to cover the cost of each
background check conducted.
      3.   Maintenance Deposit: Applicants for temporary event or sale licenses
to conduct a temporary event on, or requiring the use of, public property shall
be required to post with the director of finance a maintenance deposit in the
form of a certified or cashier's check in the amount set forth in section
4-18-1 of this title. This maintenance deposit shall be forfeited to the city
on the fifth day after termination of the temporary event, unless the director
of public works certifies in writing to the director of finance that all waste
and trash created by operation of the temporary event has been removed from the
site and that no public property was damaged as a result of the temporary
event. The city may retain all or any portion of a maintenance deposit as
reimbursement for any costs it incurs cleaning, repairing, or restoring public
property that is damaged as a result of a temporary event.
   D.   Term Of License: Unless a longer term is expressly approved by the
director of community and economic development in writing, the maximum term of
a license for a temporary event shall not exceed five (5) consecutive days.
(Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013; amd. Ord. M-10-20, 8-3-2020)
4-3-4: SEASONAL RETAIL LOCATIONS:
   A.   Definition: For the purposes of this chapter "seasonal retail
locations" are defined as retail sale activities traditionally associated with
a specific season or holiday that are open to the public and conducted for no
more than ninety (90) consecutive days in any twelve (12) month period, or such
longer period as may be approved by the director of community and economic
development in writing. Seasonal retail locations include, but are not limited
to, Christmas tree lots, pumpkin patches which include the sale of pumpkins,
farmers' markets, and Halloween costume stores.
   B.   Supplemental Application Requirements: In addition to the general
license application requirements, persons seeking a temporary event or sale
license for a seasonal retail location must also provide the director of
community and economic development with the following:
      1.   A site plan, floor plan, or diagram of the location at which the
seasonable retail location will be operated showing all buildings, structures,
and proposed temporary improvements; and
      2.   A list of all of the vendors who will be selling goods at the
seasonal retail location.
   C.   Inspection: The city manager shall make or cause to be made all
inspections of the premises, vehicles, equipment or methods of operation to be
used in conducting, engaging in, operating or managing a seasonal retail
location that he determines to be necessary to ensure compliance with all
Zoning, Building, Fire, or Health Code or any other applicable ordinances or
regulations.
   D.   Term Of License: The term of a license for a seasonal retail location
shall not exceed ninety (90) consecutive days in any twelve (12) month period.
(Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013; amd. Ord. M-10-20, 8-3-2020)
CHAPTER 4
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
4-4-1: Right To Sell
4-4-2: Definitions
4-4-3: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
4-4-4: Classification Of Licenses; Description
4-4-5: License Fees And Number
4-4-6: Beer Kegs
4-4-7: Application For License
4-4-8: Notice Of Pending Liquor License
4-4-9: Conditions Of License
4-4-10: Hours Of Sales
4-4-11: Premises Restrictions
4-4-12: Sanitary Regulations
4-4-13: Inspections
4-4-14: Employment
4-4-15: Acts Of Agent Or Employee
4-4-16: Prohibited Sales, Acts
4-4-17: Possession, Drinking In Public Places
4-4-18: Entertainment Restrictions
4-4-19: Alcohol Awareness Training
4-4-20: Delivery To Residential Premises
4-4-21: Revocation Of License
4-4-22: Penalties And Costs
4-4-1: RIGHT TO SELL:
Only such persons as shall be granted a liquor license in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter shall be permitted to sell or offer for sale,
alcoholic liquors in the city. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   The words and phrases defined in 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-3,
as amended (liquor control act of 1934), are hereby made a part of this
chapter.
   BREWERY: Any class of brewer or craft brewer licensed to manufacture beer
under the Illinois liquor control act of 1934, 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/1 et seq. When a brewery is the principal use, it may include a "tavern" or a
class A restaurant, as those terms are defined in section
12-13-3 of the zoning code, as accessory uses. A brewery with an accessory
tavern is eligible to obtain the following classes of liquor licenses
authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor by the tavern, provided that the
tavern complies with the applicable requirements set forth in section
4-4-4 of this chapter: class A, class AB, class F, and class H. A brewery with
an accessory class A restaurant is eligible to obtain the following classes of
liquor licenses authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor by the class A
restaurant, provided that the class A restaurant complies with the applicable
requirements set forth in section
4-4-4 of this chapter: class E, class F, and class H. A brewery is not eligible
to obtain a class J license under any circumstance.
   BREWPUB: A "tavern" or class A restaurant, as those terms are defined in
section
12-13-3 of the zoning code, that includes a brewery as an accessory use and
that satisfies the definition of "brew pub" set forth in the Illinois liquor
control act of 1934, 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq. When a tavern
is the principal use, a brewpub is eligible to obtain the following classes of
liquor licenses authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor by the tavern,
provided that the tavern complies with the applicable requirements set forth in
section
4-4-4 of this chapter: class A, class AB, class F, and class H. When a class A
restaurant is the principal use, a brewpub is eligible to obtain the following
classes of liquor licenses authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor by the
class A restaurant, provided that the class A restaurant complies with the
applicable requirements set forth in section
4-4-4 of this chapter: class E, class F, and class H. A brewpub is not eligible
to obtain a class J license under any circumstance.
   COFFEE SHOP: A place of business that: 1) is registered in accordance with
chapter 1 of this title; 2) opens to the public for business each day not later
than seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and remains open to the public for business
continuously for not less than ten (10) hours; and 3) is engaged in the primary
business of the sale, over a counter located at the point of sale where
customers place orders, of: a) coffee, tea, coffee based beverages, tea based
beverages, and other beverages prepared on the premises for consumption on or
off the premises where served; and b) food items, including baked goods,
sandwiches, and salads, primarily prepared off premises for consumption on or
off the premises where served. The sale or service of alcoholic liquor at any
coffee shop located within the city is prohibited except pursuant to a class P
coffee shop license. No coffee shop located within the city is eligible for any
class of liquor license other than a class P coffee shop license.
   DISTILLERY: Any class of distiller or craft distiller licensed to
manufacture spirits by distillation under the Illinois liquor control act of
1934, 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq. When a distillery is the
principal use, it may include a "tavern" or a class A restaurant, as those
terms are defined in section
12-13-3 of the zoning code, as accessory uses. A distillery with an accessory
tavern is eligible to obtain the following classes of liquor licenses
authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor by the tavern, provided that the
tavern complies with the applicable requirements set forth in section
4-4-4 of this chapter: class A, class AB, class F, and class H. A distillery
with an accessory class A restaurant is eligible to obtain the following
classes of liquor licenses authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor by the
class A restaurant, provided that the class A restaurant complies with the
applicable requirements set forth in section
4-4-4 of this chapter: class E, class F, and class H. A distillery is not
eligible to obtain a class J license under any circumstance. (Ord. M-11-16, 4-
4-2016)
4-4-3: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
   A.   The mayor shall be the local liquor control commissioner for the city.
This office may also be referred to in this code as "liquor control
commissioner" or "local liquor control commissioner", or the "city's local
liquor control commissioner". (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
   B.   All applications for licenses shall be under oath and be filed with the
local liquor control commissioner. The local liquor control commissioner, or
his authorized agent, may require the applicant, or any owners, officers,
directors, managers or members of the applicant for an alcoholic beverage
license to be fingerprinted and investigated by the police department for the
purpose of verifying individual qualifications for such license. Thereafter,
the local liquor control commissioner shall make a recommendation to the city
council. (Ord. M-29-16, 11-7-2016)
   C.   The local liquor control commissioner may appoint a person or persons
to assist him in the exercise of the powers and the performance of his duties.
(Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-4-4: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES; DESCRIPTION:
The city's classes of liquor licenses are as follows:
Class A (A-1) (A-2)    Tavern liquor dealer's license
Class AB (AB-1) (AB-2) Tavern and bulk sales dealer's license
Class B (B-1)          Bulk sales dealer's license
Class C                Club liquor license
Class D                Special occasion license
Class E                Restaurant and dining room license
Class F                Beer only license
Class G                Banquet hall liquor license
Class H (H-1) (H-2)    Beer and wine only license
Class I                Religious society license
Class J                Special four A.M. liquor license
Class K (K-subsidiary) Governmental facilities license
Class L                Wine sales license
Class M                Gas station license
Class N                Casino liquor license
Class O                Casino special occasion license
Class P                Coffee shop license
 
CLASS A, A-1 AND A-2 TAVERN LIQUOR DEALER'S LICENSE: Authorizes the sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises where sold as well as the
restricted sale of alcoholic liquor not for consumption on the premises where
sold. It shall be unlawful to display, advertise or promote the sale of
alcoholic liquor not for consumption on the premises where sold, but such sale
shall be permitted only as incidental to the sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises where sold.
Class A provides for seating for two hundred fifty (250) persons or less in the
establishment, class A-1 for more than two hundred fifty (250) persons but not
exceeding five hundred (500) persons, and class A-2 for more than five hundred
(500) persons.
CLASS AB, AB-1 AND AB-2 TAVERN AND BULK SALES DEALER'S LICENSE: Authorizes the
sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises where sold as well as
the sale of alcoholic liquor in containers for consumption off the premises
where sold.
Class AB provides for seating for two hundred fifty (250) persons or less in
the establishment, class AB-1 for more than two hundred fifty (250) persons but
not exceeding five hundred (500) persons, and class AB-2 for more than five
hundred (500) persons.
CLASS B AND B-1 BULK SALES DEALER'S LICENSE: Authorizes the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor in original containers only, for consumption off the premises
where sold. It shall be unlawful for any alcoholic liquor to be consumed in any
place of business for which a class B license is issued. Such license shall be
only authorized in locations where the sale of package liquor is the main or
principal business.
Class B-1 license shall authorize the sale of alcoholic liquor in original
containers only, and not for consumption on the premises where sold. Such B-
1 license shall be also governed by the following rules:
   A.   Such license shall be authorized only at such locations where
prepackaged food is also sold.
   B.   Such license shall be issued only for such locations which have a
minimum of one thousand three hundred (1,300) square feet on the inside of the
building with the further provisions that no more than one-third (1/3) of the
total square feet of the establishment be allocated to the sale of alcoholic
beverages.
   C.   Such license shall be issued only for those locations which provide a
separate area for the purveying of said alcoholic liquor, except as follows:
      1.   In stores where prepackaged food is sold, greater than ten thousand
(10,000) gross square feet above grade, on the inside of the building, beer and
wine only may be displayed for sale outside of the separate area for purveying
of alcoholic liquor. Promotional "tasting" or sampling activities may only
occur in the separate area for purveying of alcoholic liquor.
      2.   In such stores of greater than ten thousand (10,000) gross square
feet above grade the area for "cross merchandising" of beer and wine only shall
not exceed ten percent (10%) of the gross above grade square feet of the entire
premises.
      3.   In the context of this section, "cross merchandising" means the
display, for sale, of beer and wine only, in portions of the store not
separately set aside for the purveying of alcoholic liquor.
      4.   Such "cross merchandising" shall be limited to "end caps" areas at
the end of an aisle, or in small freestanding displays or other display areas
immediately adjacent to the areas for which food is offered for sale. In no
event shall such "cross merchandising" be conducted outside of the building
premises.
   D.   Such license shall not be issued for any areas in which the primary
products for sale include petroleum products sold either inside or outside of
the premises.
   E.   All sales of alcoholic liquor for all class B licenses shall be carried
out by persons twenty one (21) years of age who shall ensure that the patrons
are also at least twenty one (21) years of age.
CLASS C CLUB LIQUOR LICENSE: Authorizes the sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises where sold. It shall be unlawful to display,
advertise or promote the sale of alcoholic liquor not for consumption on the
premises where sold, but such sale shall be permitted only as incidental to the
sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises where sold.
No license shall be issued to a club unless the club has the qualifications as
set forth by state law; and it shall be unlawful for any liquor to be sold at
the club to anyone other than the bona fide members and guests of the club;
provided, said liquor is only sold upon the premises where the regular meetings
of the club are held.
CLASS D SPECIAL OCCASION LICENSE: Authorizes any club, organization or combined
group of individuals desiring to sell alcoholic liquors at special occasions to
its members and guests for consumption upon the premises where its special
function is held.
CLASS E RESTAURANT AND DINING ROOM LICENSE: A license for the sale of liquor
may be granted upon compliance with the other provisions hereof to any
restaurant or dining room engaged primarily in the sale of food for consumption
on the premises; providing, that the same shall serve food at tables only and
shall regularly have, on the premises, tables and chairs capable of comfortably
seating not less than fifty (50) persons, and provided further, that no such
license shall be granted to any establishment maintaining a bar or counter at
which either food or liquor is sold or consumed over the counter; it being the
intent and purpose of this section to permit the sale of liquor as an incident
or accompaniment to the serving of meals at tables only in dining places of
reasonable size and of good repute. All liquor sold under this license shall be
for consumption upon the premises in the restaurant or dining room only, and it
shall be unlawful and cause for revocation of the license to sell any alcoholic
liquor over the counter, at a bar, or in packages. No license shall be issued
under any circumstances to any establishment maintaining a bar or counter, as
aforesaid.
CLASS F BEER ONLY LICENSE: Authorizes the sale of beer for consumption on the
premises where sold.
CLASS G BANQUET HALL LIQUOR LICENSE:
   A.   A license for the sale or consumption of alcoholic liquor may be
granted to any person owning and operating a banquet hall facility.
   B.   As used herein, "banquet hall facility" shall mean a business conducted
on premises at which the exclusive activity is the catering of private parties
whereat there is service for consumption at tables of a full multiple course
meal at a prearranged fixed unit price, or hors d'oeuvres, buffet or
smorgasbord, and at which alcoholic liquor may be served or sold as an incident
to such food service; provided, that each of such private parties is
prearranged under the sponsorship of a particular person or organization,
including, but not limited to, wedding dinners, school graduation dinners,
periodic dinner meetings of service organizations and similar affairs, as
contrasted to restaurants, cafeterias or other food or beverage service
establishments open to the public. No such banquet hall facility shall have a
cocktail lounge, or other similar area devoted primarily to the service and
consumption of alcoholic liquor only.
   C.   A class G liquor license holder may conduct up to a maximum of twelve
(12) events under its own sponsorship consistent with subsection B under this
classification.
   D.   The sale and consumption of alcoholic liquor under a class G license
shall be on the banquet hall facility premises only, and it shall be unlawful
to sell alcoholic liquor of any kind for carryout or consumption off such
premises. It shall also be unlawful for any class G license holder to sell,
offer to sell, give away or otherwise deliver any alcoholic liquor to any
person other than a guest present at such banquet.
CLASS H-1 AND H-2 BEER AND WINE ONLY LICENSE: Class H-1 license shall authorize
the sale of beer and wine for consumption on the premises where sold.
Class H-2 license shall be established for the sale of beer or wine, in
original containers only, not for consumption on the premises. Such license
shall be issued only for such locations which have a minimum of one thousand
three hundred (1,300) square feet on the inside of the building, with the
further provision that no more than one-third (1/3) of the total square feet of
the establishment be allocated to the sale of beer and wine. Such license shall
not be issued for any areas in which the primary products for sale include
petroleum products sold either inside or outside of the premises.
CLASS I RELIGIOUS SOCIETY LICENSE: Any nonprofit church, synagogue, or the like
desiring to sell alcoholic liquors on its premises to its members and guests
for consumption upon its premises. If a religious society was organized
primarily to acquire the class I religious society liquor license, no class I
religious society liquor license shall be issued to it. Subsections
4-4-5B and
4-4-7A5 of this chapter are inapplicable to class I religious society liquor
licenses and no interpretation of these provisions shall serve to deny a class
I liquor license.
CLASS J SPECIAL FOUR A.M. LIQUOR LICENSE: Authorizes the sale of alcoholic
liquor until four o'clock (4:00) A.M. for consumption on the premises where
sold as well as the sale of alcoholic liquor not for consumption on the
premises where sold.
The holder of a tavern liquor dealer's license by virtue of his status as a
holder of a tavern liquor dealer's license shall not be automatically entitled
to a special four A.M. liquor license. However, no one shall hold a special
four A.M. liquor license unless he holds a tavern liquor dealer's license. If
the applicant for a special four A.M. liquor license was an existing liquor
license holder whose liquor establishment was annexed to the city of Des
Plaines, the annual fee for the special four A.M. liquor license shall be
prorated over the remainder of the year of annexation. In all other
circumstances, the fee for the special four A.M. liquor license shall not be
apportioned.
The fee for a special four A.M. liquor license shall be in addition to, not in
substitution of, the annual fee for a tavern liquor dealer's license.
CLASS K GOVERNMENTAL FACILITIES LICENSE: This license may be granted to a
municipal corporation, unit of local government, school district or special
district (the "governmental body") and shall authorize the sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption in buildings owned or leased by such governmental body
(the "facility"), subject to the applicable provisions of this section. A class
K license shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the
premises of the facility identified in the liquor license and only when food
service is available. A representative or employee of the governmental body
must be present on the licensed premises at all times that alcoholic liquor is
served in accordance with section
4-4-10 of this chapter.
   A.   No such facility shall have a cocktail lounge or other similar area
devoted primarily to the service and consumption of alcoholic liquor only, and
it shall be unlawful to sell alcoholic liquor of any kind for carryout
consumption off such premises.
   B.   For purposes of the application required by section
4-4-7 of this chapter, the applicant shall be the governmental body. The
application shall state the office address of the applicant, the names and
residence addresses of all members of the governing board, and the names and
residence addresses of the officers or employees who are authorized to be
present on the licensed premises. Subsections
4-4-7A2, A3, A7, A8 and A9 of this chapter shall not apply to class K licenses,
but shall apply to class K - subsidiary licenses.
   C.   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to class K licenses insofar
as they may be applicable to a governmental body.
CLASS K - SUBSIDIARY LICENSE: Any caterer providing alcoholic liquor for
consumption in the facility must apply to the local liquor control commissioner
and obtain a class K - subsidiary license. Each class K - subsidiary license
shall be independent of the class K license for purposes of enforcement. No
class K - subsidiary license shall be issued unless a class K license has been
issued. If a class K license is canceled, no class K - subsidiary license for
that governmental body's facilities shall be renewed.
CLASS L LICENSE: Authorizes the sale of wine, beer, and alcoholic cider by the
individual glass for consumption on the premises where sold as well as the
incidental sale of wine, beer, and/or alcoholic cider not for consumption on
the premises. A class L license shall permit the sale of wine, beer, and
alcoholic cider for consumption on the premises where sold only when the
service of food prepared on the premises is available and operational.
CLASS M GAS STATION LICENSE: Authorizes the retail sale of beer and wine from
gas stations with the following restrictions: in original containers only, and
not for consumption on the premises where sold. Such class M license shall also
be governed by the following rules:
   A.   Such license shall be issued only for such establishments that sell
prepackaged food items in an area no less than one thousand three hundred
(1,300) square feet on the inside of the building with the further provisions
that no more than one-third (1/3) of the total square feet of the establishment
be allocated to the sale of alcoholic beverages.
   B.   The hours of sale for alcoholic beverages for a class M gas station
license will be in accordance with special restrictions present in subsection
4-4-10D of this chapter.
   C.   Beer and wine shall only be sold in original packages. Sales, by class
M licensees, of single cans or bottles of beer and sales of containers or
bottles of wine of less than seven hundred fifty milliliters (750ml) are
strictly prohibited.
CLASS N CASINO LIQUOR LICENSE: Authorizes the retail sale of alcoholic liquor
for sale by the drink for consumption on the premises where sold and not for
resale. Such class N license shall also be governed by the following rules:
   A.   Such license shall be issued only to persons, firms or corporations
holding a casino owner’s license (also referred to in this title as an “owner’s
license”) issued by the Illinois gaming board to conduct gambling operations
pursuant to the Illinois Gambling Act 1 . Any liquor license issued by the
local liquor license commission shall be valid only during such periods as the
owner’s license is not terminated, suspended, revoked, expired or nonrenewed. A
casino owner licensee may hold more than one class N liquor license.
   B.   A class N license may be issued for one or more premises in a building
having limited and secure access points through which individuals may be
admitted and through which individuals may obtain egress under the supervision
or control of the licensee or its designees and in which building gambling
activity is subject to regulation by the Illinois gaming board pursuant to the
Illinois Gambling Act 2
.
   C.   Consumption of alcoholic liquor shall be limited to:
      1.   Those areas designated as the licensed premises by the city's local
liquor control commissioner; and
      2.   Any contiguous premises to a premises holding a class N license; and
      3.   Any contiguous premises to a premises licensed solely by the
Illinois liquor control commission for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for
sale by the drink for consumption on the premises where sold and not for
resale.
   D.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as prohibiting a purchaser
of alcoholic liquors from carrying that purchase to or from any contiguous
premises holding a class N license and to or from any contiguous premises
licensed by the Illinois liquor commission for the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor for sale by the drink for consumption on the premises where sold and not
for resale. This provision shall not be construed to authorize a purchaser of
alcoholic liquors from a holder of a class N license to carry, consume or
possess that alcoholic liquor at any location on the premises or elsewhere
other than one covered by a class N license or by a license issued solely by
the Illinois liquor control commission.
CLASS O CASINO SPECIAL OCCASION LICENSE: Authorizes the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor for sale by the drink for consumption on the premises where
the special function is held where sold and not for resale on special
occasions. Such O license shall also be governed by the following rules:
   A.   Such license shall be issued only to persons, firms or corporations
holding an owner's license issued by the Illinois gaming board to conduct
gambling operations pursuant to the Illinois Gambling Act 3
, which license is not terminated, suspended, revoked, expired or nonrenewed.
   B.   A class O license may be issued for a premises which is: 1) owned or
controlled by the holder of an owner's license issued by the Illinois gaming
board and which is 2) within an area of land in Des Plaines bounded on the east
by Des Plaines River Road, on the south by the north line of Devon Avenue, on
the west by the east line of the Northern Illinois Toll Highway Tri-State
Tollway maintained by the Illinois toll highway authority and on the north by a
line running in an approximate east-west direction parallel to and one thousand
three hundred fifteen feet (1,315') north of the north line of Devon Avenue.
   C.   A premises for which a class O license is issued may be a portion of a
parking garage, or parking lot but during those periods for which the license
is issued, the premises must be within an area controlled by limited and secure
access points through which individuals may be admitted and through which
individuals may obtain egress under the supervision or control of the licensee
or its designees.
   D.   Alcoholic liquor may only be consumed on the premises where the special
function is held and may not be carried or otherwise transported by a purchaser
outside the premises except to a contiguous premises, if any, for which a class
O license has been issued and is then in effect.
   E.   The licensee is not authorized to sell alcoholic liquor during any
hours when it does not also offer food for consumption on the premises.
   F.   No more than eight (8) such class O licenses shall be granted, and they
shall not exceed a total of ten (10) days, for any one such premises or to any
one such licensee in any calendar year.
   G.   The local liquor control commissioner may prescribe the kinds of
alcoholic liquors that may be sold, the hours during which same may be sold and
such other reasonable conditions as he may deem appropriate under the
circumstances. The fee to be paid for a special occasion license shall be set
forth in section
4-4-5 of this chapter.
CLASS P COFFEE SHOP LICENSE: Authorizes the retail sale of solely wine and beer
at a coffee shop, solely for consumption on the premises where sold, subject
to, and in accordance with, the following conditions and restrictions:
   A.   The sale of wine or beer is prohibited at any time before two o'clock
(2:00) P.M. and after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on Mondays through Fridays, and
before twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on
Saturdays and Sundays.
   B.   Wine and beer may be sold by single serving or by the bottle, but beer
must be consumed from a single serving, transparent container that does not
exceed twelve (12) ounces in volume, and wine must be consumed from a single
serving, transparent container that does not exceed five (5) ounces in volume.
   C.   Wine and beer must be ordered by patrons at, and sold and served over,
the counter of the coffee shop at the point of sale.
   D.   The sale of more than one single serving or bottle of wine or beer to
each patron during a single point of sale transaction is prohibited. Each and
every patron who desires to consume wine or beer (including, without
limitation, a portion of wine or beer sold by the bottle), must: 1) be
physically present at the counter during the point of sale transaction during
which the wine or beer is purchased; and 2) present a form of valid
photographic identification issued by a state government or the United States
government. For the purpose of the class P coffee shop license, "point of sale"
transaction means each instance when a patron or group of patrons purchases
food and beverages at the counter of a coffee shop, whether or not the
purchases are processed or documented as a single transaction by the coffee
shop.
   E.   All employees of a coffee shop that has obtained a class P coffee shop
license who are on duty during the hours when wine or beer may be served must
have completed state BASSET training.
   F.   All employees of a coffee shop that has obtained a class P coffee shop
license who sell or serve wine or beer must be twenty one (21) years of age or
older.
   G.   The sale of wine or beer through a drive-through window is prohibited.
(Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013; amd. Ord. M-16-15, 9-8-2015; Ord. M-10-16, 4-4-2016;
Ord. M-8-20, 5-4-2020; Ord. M-8-21, 6-10-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 10/1 et seq.
2 2. 230 ILCS 10/1 et seq.
3 1. 230 ILCS 10/1 et seq.
4-4-5: LICENSE FEES AND NUMBER:
   A.   Schedule Of Fees, Number Of Licenses Authorized To Be Issued: The
annual fees to be paid for all classes of liquor licenses and the number of
licenses available to be issued are set forth in section
4-18-1 of this title.
   B.   Fees Paid With Application:
      1.   All license fees shall be tendered with the application for license
and the fees shall be paid by a certified check, cashier's check, or business
check, made payable to the city. Upon the liquor control commissioner's
approving the issuance of any license, the fee for the license shall be
delivered to the director of finance to be deposited to the general corporate
fund. A separate nonrefundable license application processing fee in the amount
set forth in section
4-18-1 of this title plus reasonable additional costs shall be tendered with
each application submitted for license. Such additional costs shall include,
but are not limited to, fingerprinting fees for each applicant, manager, on
site supervisor, and bartender, and their successors and assigns in the amount
set forth in section
4-18-1 of this title. Said fee shall be paid by certified check or cashier's
check made payable to the city.
      2.   Provided, however, the fee after July 1 of a year may be
apportioned. Said apportionment shall be determined by the number of quarters
left in the applicant's licensing year. The apportionment shall be allowed as a
credit based on the number of quarters (3 month period) remaining in the
license year. If there are less than three (3) months remaining, there shall be
no apportionment of the fee; however, the license shall be good through the
following June 30 of the subsequent calendar year.
      3.   No reissuance of a liquor license shall occur if other fines or fees
are pending or unpaid.
   C.   Liquor License Fees When License Classification Increased:
      1.   Whenever a liquor license for a given premises is increased to a
less restrictive classification during the year for which another liquor
license exists for that premises, or if such change in the liquor license
classification is made in any subsequent year for said premises, the fee for
the new classification shall be that specified in this chapter for the first
year of such less restrictive classification.
      2.   Provided, however, that the liquor control commissioner may
apportion the fee of a liquor license holder when said holder applies for and
is granted a less restrictive license. Said apportionment shall be determined
by the number of quarters left in the applicant's licensing year. The
apportionment shall be allowed as a credit based on the number of complete
quarters (3 month period) remaining in the license year. If there are less than
three (3) months remaining, there shall be no apportionment of the fee as a
credit against the more expensive liquor license. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-4-6: BEER KEGS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following definition
shall apply:
   BEER KEG: A reusable container holding eight hundred forty (840) ounces or
more of beer or other similar alcoholic beverage.
   B.   Identification Tag: Any licensee who sells a beer keg shall affix to
each keg sold a tag, furnished by the city of Des Plaines liquor control
commissioner, containing an identification number enabling the purchaser to be
identified in accordance with subsection C of this section.
   C.   Record Kept: The licensee shall keep a logbook of all kegs sold,
showing the identification number on the tag affixed to each keg, and the
purchaser's name, address, telephone number, driver's license/state
identification number, date of birth, and signature. The logbook shall be
available for inspection by the liquor control commissioner or the Des Plaines
police department.
   D.   Deposits:
      1.   The licensee shall require the purchaser to deposit, at the time of
the sale of a keg, at least seventy dollars ($70.00) for sale of a keg with
pumper and at least twenty dollars ($20.00) for sale of a keg without a pumper.
The deposit shall be refunded only upon the return of the keg with the tag
properly affixed. Only one deposit fee will be required from a purchaser of
more than one keg at any one time.
      2.   The licensee shall require the purchaser, at the time of the sale,
to sign a form to be provided by the liquor control commissioner, setting forth
the provisions of this section and informing the purchaser that the deposit
will be forfeited if the keg is not returned with the tag properly affixed. The
licensee shall retain this form for ninety (90) days after the sale.
      3.   Any keg not returned with the tag properly affixed within sixty (60)
days following the date of sale shall be considered lost, and the deposit shall
be forfeited. The licensee shall notify the city of Des Plaines liquor control
commissioner on a monthly basis of all deposits that are forfeited. (Ord. M-19-
13, 10-7-2013)
4-4-7: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Contents Of Application: An applicant for license shall submit an
application, under oath, stating:
      1.   Applicant's name and residence address.
      2.   Applicant's place of birth, and if a naturalized citizen, the time
and place of naturalization.
      3.   The applicant, manager, on site supervisor and bartenders have never
been convicted of, pled guilty to, or been found guilty by a court of law of a
felony or an offense involving moral turpitude.
      4.   The location where applicant proposes to sell retail alcoholic
liquors.
      5.   The proposed location is not within one hundred feet (100') of any
church, school, hospital, home for the aged or indigent persons or for
veterans, their spouses or children, or any military or naval station. In the
case of a church, the distance of one hundred feet (100') shall be measured to
the nearest part of any building used for worship services or education
programs and not to property boundaries.
      6.   He will not violate any of the provisions of this code or the laws
of the state or the United States in the conduct of his place of business.
      7.   In case of a partnership or corporation, the information required by
this section shall be furnished as to each partner of a partnership and the
principal officers and the owners of five percent (5%) or more of the stock of
the corporation.
      8.   The applicant, manager, on site supervisor, and bartenders have
never been convicted of, pled guilty to, or been found guilty by a court of law
of pandering or other crime or misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
      9.   The applicant, manager, on site supervisor and bartenders have never
been convicted of, pled guilty to, or been found guilty by a court of law of
being the keeper and that the applicant, manager, on site supervisor, and
bartenders are not now the keepers of a house of ill fame.
      10.   The name of the owner of the real estate whereon the premises is
located, and, if the owner is a trustee of a land trust, then the identity of
each beneficiary of the land trust by name and address and a definition of the
interest of each beneficiary therein. A certified copy of the land trust
agreement shall be filed. A certified copy of the document stating the
applicant's possessory interest in the premises shall also be filed.
   B.   Corporations: No corporation shall be issued a liquor license if any
stockholder owning five percent (5%) or more of the stock is not a citizen of
the United States.
   C.   Time Limit: No application for any liquor license for one location may
be filed within one year after denial of any liquor license application for the
same applicant at the same location. However, if a new applicant files an
application for a liquor license for a location wherein a previous application
had been denied to another applicant within one year prior thereto, then upon a
two-thirds (2/3) vote of the city council said application shall be referred to
the legal and licensing committee for a hearing. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-4-8: NOTICE OF PENDING LIQUOR LICENSE:
   A.   Upon receipt of a liquor license application, the liquor control
commissioner shall cause to be posted on the premises for fourteen (14) days a
notice stating: name of applicant; license classification applied for; and, the
date the matter will be on the council agenda; and, indicating that said
premises are being sought as the location at which intoxicating liquors may be
sold or otherwise dispensed or consumed.
   B.   The only intent of the fourteen (14) day posting provision is to give
notice to adjacent residents and/or businesses of the change of ownership and/
or the opportunity to object to the location being used as a liquor
establishment. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013; amd. Ord. M-13-21, 9-20-2021)
4-4-9: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   A liquor license shall be purely a personal privilege and shall not be
transferable. A license shall be good for not exceeding the calendar year in
which it is issued unless sooner revoked for cause as provided by law. A
license may be issued to a person, a partnership or a corporation.
   B.   If a partnership is changed during a calendar year by adding a new
partner, the existing license shall terminate. However, if a partnership is
changed during a calendar year by deleting any partner, the license shall
continue. If five percent (5%) or more of the stock of a closed corporation is
transferred in any manner during a calendar year to another owner who is not
listed as a stockholder on the last annual application for license, the license
shall terminate. If twenty percent (20%) or more of the stock of a publicly
held corporation is transferred in any manner during a calendar year to another
owner who is not listed as a stockholder on the last annual application for
license, the license shall terminate. However, if any stock of any corporation
is transferred in any manner during a calendar year to another owner who is
listed as a stockholder on the last annual application for license, the license
shall continue; however, if the new owner owned less than five percent (5%) of
the stock of a closed corporation on the last annual application for license
and the ownership is increased to exceed five percent (5%), then said owner
shall be investigated and fingerprinted by the police department.
   C.   Except as provided in subsections
4-4-5B and C of this chapter, there shall be no apportioning of the fee for
fractions of a year, nor shall there be any refund in cases of revocation of
the license. All license fees are due and payable July 1 of each calendar year,
and it shall be unlawful for any place of business wherein alcoholic liquor is
sold or offered for sale, or kept for sale, to be open to the public until the
fee is paid and license issued.
   D.   No interpretation or construction of this provision shall prohibit the
proration of the fee for a special four A.M. liquor license when the
applicant's liquor establishment was annexed to the city of Des Plaines during
the year for which the applicant applied. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-4-10: HOURS OF SALES:
   A.   Generally: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for
sale any alcoholic liquor in the city after the hour of one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
and before the hour of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on Mondays, Tuesdays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Fridays, or after the hour of two o'clock (2:00)
A.M. and before the hour of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on Saturdays, or after the
hour of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and before the hour of twelve o'clock (12:00)
noon on Sundays, except for licensees who offer food consumed on the premises.
Such licensees in conjunction with the offering of food may begin on premises
consumption at the hour of ten thirty o'clock (10:30) A.M. on Sundays; except,
however, that alcoholic liquor may be sold by class B and class H-2 license
holders only, on Sundays at nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and except, however, that
alcoholic liquor may be sold or offered for sale in the city up to four o'clock
(4:00) A.M. on January 1 of each year. (Ord. M-16-15, 9-8-2015)
   B.   Special Four A.M. License: No interpretation or construction of this
provision shall prohibit the holder of a special four A.M. liquor license from
selling alcoholic beverages between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to
four o'clock (4:00) A.M. each day Monday through Saturday morning and from
twelve o'clock (12:00) noon Sunday to four o'clock (4:00) A.M. Monday.
   C.   Election Days: It is permissible to sell, or offer to sell, any
alcoholic liquor on the day of any national, state, county, township, municipal
or local election, during the hours the polls are open within the political
area in which such election is being held; subject, however, to the closing
hours set forth in this section.
   D.   Class M Specific Restrictions: For the purposes of class M licenses
only, the hours of sales shall be:
 
Monday through Friday 10:30 A.M. to 11:00 P.M.
Saturday              10:30 A.M. to 12:00 midnight
Sunday                12:00 noon to 11:00 P.M.
 
   E.   Class N Specific Restrictions: A holder of a casino owner’s license
that also holds a class N license may sell alcoholic beverages or furnish or
permit the same to be consumed on the premises from 9:30 a.m. until 4:00 a.m.
each Gaming Day as defined in the Illinois Gaming Act. Any casino owner’s
licensee that does not conduct gambling operations 24 hours a day may sell
alcoholic beverages or furnish or permit the same to be consumed on the
premises from 9:30 a.m. until one hour prior to the licensee’s close of gaming
operations that gaming day, as set forth in 86 Illinois administrative code
section 3000.930.
   F.   Days Designated To Change From Or To Standard Time: On those days
designated by law to change from or to standard time, the actual permitted
hours of operation shall not be affected and a licensed premises shall close on
such days as if the time change had not occurred.
   G.   Class P Coffee Shop License Restrictions: The sale of alcoholic liquor
by a coffee shop that has obtained a class P coffee shop license is prohibited
at any time before two o'clock (2:00) P.M. and after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
on Mondays through Fridays, and before twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and after
ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on Saturdays and Sundays. Coffee shops are not
eligible to obtain a special four A.M. license. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013; amd.
Ord. M-16-15, 9-8-2015; Ord. M-8-21, 6-10-2021)
4-4-11: PREMISES RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Location Near Churches, Schools, Etc.:
      1.   No license shall be issued for the sale of any alcoholic liquors on
any premises within one hundred feet (100') of any church, public or private
school, daycare center, hospital, home for aged or indigent persons, or for
veterans, their spouses or children, or any military or naval station provided
that this prohibition shall not apply to hotels offering restaurant service,
regularly organized clubs, or to restaurants, food shops or other places where
sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business carried on, nor to the
renewal of a license or application by new owners at a location previously
licensed for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor on premises within one
hundred feet (100') of any church or school where such church or school has
been established within such one hundred feet (100') since the issuance of the
original license. In the case of a church, the distance of one hundred feet
(100') shall be measured to the nearest part of any building used for worship
services or educational programs and not to property boundaries. The word
"premises" as used herein, shall mean the lot, plot or parcel of land upon
which alcoholic liquors are sold.
      2.   Anything in this section to the contrary notwithstanding, the liquor
control commissioner may issue special occasion licenses for the sale of
alcoholic liquors upon any premises used for church purposes and upon premises
used for private schools when such schools are owned and operated in
conjunction with a church. However, not more than eight (8) such licenses shall
be granted, and not to exceed a total of ten (10) days, for any one such
premises or to any one such licensee in any calendar year. The liquor control
commissioner may prescribe the kinds of alcoholic liquors which may be sold,
the hours during which same may be sold and such other reasonable conditions as
he may deem appropriate under the circumstances. The fee to be paid for such a
special occasion license shall be set forth in section
4-18-1 of this title.
   B.   Unobstructed View Required: In premises upon which the sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption upon the premises is licensed (other than as a
restaurant, hotel, club or any bowling alley, except where the restaurant,
hotel, club or bowling alley has windows through which the part of the premises
maintained for the sale of alcoholic liquors can be viewed from the street, the
provisions of this subsection will be in full force and effect), no screen,
blind, curtain, partition, article or thing shall be permitted in the windows
or upon the doors of such licensed premises, or inside the premises, which
shall prevent a clear view into the interior of such licensed premises from the
street, road or sidewalk at all times; and no booth, screen, partition or other
obstruction, nor any arrangement of lights or lighting shall be permitted in or
about the interior of such licensed premises which shall prevent a full view of
the entire interior of such premises from the street, road or sidewalk, and
said premises must be so located that there shall be a full view of the entire
interior thereof from the street, road or sidewalk. All rooms where liquor is
sold for consumption upon the premises shall be continuously lighted during
business hours by natural light or artificial white light so that all parts of
the interior of the premises shall be clearly visible. In case the view into
any such licensed premises required by the foregoing provisions shall be
wilfully obscured by the licensee, or be permitted to be obscured or in any
manner obstructed, then such license shall be subject to revocation in the
manner herein provided. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to
class N licensees.
   C.   Sidewalk Tables: No current holder of a Des Plaines liquor license may
serve alcoholic beverages to patrons seated at tables and chairs on public
sidewalks without first obtaining a permit from the liquor control
commissioner. In addition, a permit must also be obtained from the director of
community development in compliance with subsection
8-1-8D of this code.
The liquor control commissioner shall issue rules and regulations governing the
serving of alcoholic liquor on public sidewalks.
   D.   Screening From Abutting Properties:
      1.   Any licensed establishment located on a site, lot of record or
zoning lot contiguous to property zoned or used for residential purposes must
be screened from such contiguous residential property by a solid wood, brick or
concrete view screening opaque fence or other material such as a brick wall,
six feet (6') in height. The fence must be constructed so as not to permit the
flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic between the residential area and the
licensed establishment.
      2.   Any solid wood, brick or concrete fence or wall, which was in
existence on or before October 18, 1993, and which is at least six feet (6') in
height, may remain in accordance with this subsection until such time as said
fence or wall is removed, destroyed, replaced, or substantially repaired, at
which time a conforming six foot (6') fence or wall must be installed or
constructed.
      3.   The provisions of this subsection D shall not apply to class D, I or
K licensees. The terms "lot of record" and "zoning lot" shall be defined as set
forth in the zoning code. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-4-12: SANITARY REGULATIONS:
   A.   All premises used for the sale of alcoholic liquors shall be kept in a
clean and sanitary condition. No refuse of any sort shall be permitted to
accumulate thereon, and all such premises shall be thoroughly cleaned at least
once in each twenty four (24) hours; provided, that no cleaning shall be
required on Sundays or holidays if no business is conducted on the premises on
such days.
   B.   In all premises wherein alcoholic liquors are licensed to be sold for
consumption there shall be maintained two (2) toilets, one for men and one for
women. The toilet rooms shall have a concrete floor or other floor of
waterproof material and shall at all times be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-4-13: INSPECTIONS:
All premises in the city where alcoholic liquors are sold shall be inspected at
least every six (6) months by the police department to ensure compliance with
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-4-14: EMPLOYMENT:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee or employee of the licensee to engage or
employ or permit any person under the age of twenty one (21) to tend bar and to
draw, pour or mix any alcoholic liquor in any licensed retail premises. (Ord.
M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-4-15: ACTS OF AGENT OR EMPLOYEE:
Every act or omission of whatsoever nature, constituting a violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter by an officer, director, manager or other agent
or employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of the
employer or licensee and the employer or licensee shall be punishable in the
same manner as if the act or omission had been done or omitted by him
personally. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-4-16: PROHIBITED SALES, ACTS 1
:
   A.   Sales To Persons Under Twenty One And Mental Incompetents: No licensee
nor any officer, associate, member, representative, agent or employee of such
licensee shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any person under the
age of twenty one (21) years, or to any intoxicated person or to any person
known by him to be a habitual drunkard, a spendthrift, insane, mentally ill,
mentally deficient or in need of mental treatment. No person, after purchasing
or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor, shall sell, give or deliver such
alcoholic liquor to another person under the age of twenty one (21) years,
except in the performance of a religious ceremony or service.
   B.   Premises To Display Warning To Minors: Every place in the city where
alcoholic liquor is sold shall display at all times in a prominent place a
printed card which shall be issued by the liquor control commissioner and which
shall read substantially as follows:
         WARNING TO PERSONS UNDER
         THE AGE OF TWENTY ONE
You are subject to a fine as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of the city code of the city of Des Plaines if you purchase alcoholic
liquor or misrepresent your age for the purpose of obtaining the alcoholic
liquor if you are under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   C.   Loitering By Persons Under Twenty One: No licensee shall permit any
person under the age of twenty one (21) years to be or remain in any room or
compartment adjoining or adjacent to or situated in the room or place in which
the licensed premises is located; however, this provision shall not apply to
any person under the age of twenty one (21) years who is accompanied by his
parent or guardian, or to any licensed premises which derives its principal
business from the sale or service of commodities other than alcoholic liquor.
   D.   Parental Responsibility: Any parent or guardian who shall knowingly
permit any person under the age of twenty one (21) years of which he may be the
parent or guardian to violate any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each and every such offense. For purposes of this
subsection, "knowingly" shall be defined as in section
6-3A-1 of this code.
   E.   Misrepresentation Of Age: It shall be unlawful for any person under the
age of twenty one (21) years to misrepresent his age for the purpose of
purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor in any place in the city where
alcoholic liquor is sold.
   F.   Application Of Provisions To Minors: No person under the age of twenty
one (21) years shall purchase, accept as a gift, possess or consume any
alcoholic liquor in any licensed liquor premises or in any public or private
place. These prohibitions shall apply to such person on any street or highway
or in any public place or in any place open to the public and shall not apply
in the performance of a bona fide religious service or ceremony or whenever the
person is under the direct supervision and approval of a law enforcement
officer acting within his official duties. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. Offenses relating to alcoholic beverages and minors also found in
  title 6, chapter 3, article A of this code.
4-4-17: POSSESSION, DRINKING IN PUBLIC PLACES:
   A.   Definitions:
   PUBLIC WAY: Any street, sidewalk, alley, highway, public thoroughfare or
parking area available to the public, or any street, sidewalk, alley or parking
area located on private property for which the owner(s) of said property has
entered into a contract with the city for enforcement of traffic regulations
pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-209.
   B.   Public Drinking:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to drink any alcoholic beverage
on any public way or in or about any motor vehicle upon a public way in the
city.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport, carry, possess or
have any alcoholic beverage in or upon any public way or in or upon or about
any motor vehicle upon any public way in the city except in the original
package and with the seal unbroken.
   C.   Penalties: Any person in violation of any provision of this section
shall be fined as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-4-18: ENTERTAINMENT RESTRICTIONS:
No person licensed under this chapter shall permit any employee, entertainer,
model, dancer, independent contractor or patron to engage in any live act,
demonstration, performance, or exhibition on the licensed premises which:
   A.   Exposes his genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or
pubic hair region; or in which "specified anatomical areas", as more clearly
defined in section
4-16-1 of this title, are less than completely and opaquely covered; or
   B.   Exposes any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of
or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or pubic
hair region; or
   C.   Exposes any portion of the female breast at or below the areola
thereof; or
   D.   Allows the employee, entertainer, model, dancer, or independent
contractor to be no closer than six feet (6') to any patron during the
employee, entertainer, model, dancer, or independent contractor's live act,
demonstration, performance, or exhibition on the licensed premises. (Ord. M-19-
13, 10-7-2013)
4-4-19: ALCOHOL AWARENESS TRAINING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any licensed liquor establishment to sell,
deliver, serve, prepare, pour, mix or draw alcoholic liquor unless the owners
and managers who supervise the selling delivering, serving, preparing, pouring,
mixing or drawing of alcoholic beverages have successfully completed an alcohol
awareness training program accredited by the state or conducted by the police
department. Furthermore, any and all persons who are required to submit to a
background check pursuant to the Des Plaines liquor license ordinance shall
complete an alcohol awareness training program accredited by the state or
conducted by the police department within the time period set forth in
subsection F of this section. It is the responsibility of the individual to
attend and successfully complete an accredited program.
   B.   Any person successfully completing the required alcohol awareness
training program shall present proof of the successful completion of that
program to the city clerk who shall then enter that person's name on a roll of
owners and managers who will supervise the selling, delivering, serving,
preparing, pouring, mixing or drawing of alcoholic beverages in any
establishment having a liquor license under provisions of this chapter.
   C.   All license holders shall maintain proof upon the premises that the
owner and manager have successfully completed an alcohol awareness training
program accredited by the state.
   D.   Any person registered on the roll of the city clerk may have their name
suspended or stricken from the roll upon conviction of, finding of guilty or
plea of guilty to one or more of the following provisions:
      1.   Any felony;
      2.   Being a keeper or keeping a house of ill fame as described in the
Illinois Compiled Statutes;
      3.   Pandering or other crime or misdemeanor of city ordinance which is a
crime opposed to decency and morality, as defined in the Illinois Compiled
Statutes;
      4.   Sale of alcoholic beverages to a minor;
      5.   Gambling as described in the Illinois Compiled Statutes and/or
city's ordinances dealing with gambling;
      6.   Possession or sale of cannabis or controlled substances as described
in the Illinois Compiled Statutes;
      7.   Any violation of any other provisions of the Des Plaines liquor
license ordinance.
   E.   As an alternative to suspension or striking the name of the person from
the roll of the city clerk, the local liquor control commissioner may fine the
violator or licensee in a sum not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   F.   Any licensee shall have ninety (90) calendar days from the effective
date of December 7, 1998, to comply with the requirements of this section. Any
person hired subsequent to the date of December 7, 1998, shall comply with this
section within sixty (60) calendar days of their becoming an owner or of their
person becoming an owner or manager.
   G.   Sections
4-4-4 and
4-4-5 of this chapter relating to class D, I and K licenses are excluded from
the requirements of the alcohol awareness training. Section
4-4-4 of this chapter relating to class C licenses are excluded from the
requirements of the alcohol awareness training if, in the judgment of the chief
of police, the amount of liquor served, and the type of club, does not warrant
alcohol awareness training. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013; amd. Ord. M-24-24, 11-18-
2024)
4-4-20: DELIVERY TO RESIDENTIAL PREMISES:
A class B licensee may deliver alcoholic beverages to business and residential
locations under the following conditions:
   A.   The delivery is made by a driver or employee who is certified as
required by section
4-4-19 of this chapter and who makes deliveries.
   B.   The class B licensee must establish, in writing, rules and regulations
acceptable to the mayor as local liquor control commissioner which observe
statutory requirements and restrict the delivery of alcoholic beverages to
persons of legal age to consume such liquor or beverages.
   C.   Copies of said rules and regulations acceptable to the mayor as liquor
commissioner shall be approved by him or her, and shall be retained in the
files of the city as proof thereof.
   D.   The failure of a class B licensee to observe said regulations shall be
cause for the revocation of its liquor license subject to the applicable
hearing provisions as required by law. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-4-21: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Any license granted under the provisions of this chapter may be
revoked, suspended or not renewed by the liquor control commissioner upon the
violation by any licensee or his employees of any provisions of this code or
state or federal law pertaining to the sale of alcoholic liquors. Further
grounds of any such action may include, but are not limited to, violations of
any provisions of this code, state or federal law by the licensee, or his
employees, doing or permitting anything to be done in the premises so licensed
that in the opinion of the liquor control commissioner is contrary to the best
interests and good morals of the citizens of the city.
   B.   Notice of the revocation, suspension or nonrenewal of a liquor license
shall be given to the licensee as follows: by mailing said notice of revocation
by certified mail, return receipt requested; and, by posting said notice on the
door of the premises so licensed; and, by posting said notice on the bulletin
board at the entrance of the city civic center within five (5) days after the
date of revocation.
The notice of revocation, suspension or nonrenewal shall contain a brief
statement of the basis for said revocation, and advise the licensee of the
right to appeal the decision of the liquor control commissioner to revoke said
liquor license.
   C.   A licensee whose liquor license has been revoked, suspended or not
renewed may appeal said revocation by requesting a hearing, in writing, before
the liquor control commissioner. Upon receipt of a written request for a
hearing, the liquor control commissioner shall designate the time and place of
said hearing, shall notify the parties, and shall post notice of said hearing
on the bulletin board in the city civic center.
   D.   The appeal hearing shall be before the liquor control commissioner. At
the hearing, the commissioner shall hear the evidence and review the documents
presented by the city and licensee. A record of the proceedings shall be made.
Based upon the evidence of record, the commissioner shall make a finding
sustaining, modifying or rescinding the revocation, suspension or nonrenewal of
said liquor license. The decision of the liquor control commissioner shall be
forwarded to the parties.
   E.   All appeals to the state liquor control commission of any decision,
order or action by the local liquor control commissioner, or designee, having
the effect of levying a fine or refusing to levy a fine on a licensee, granting
or refusing to grant a license, revoking or suspending or refusing to revoke or
suspend a license, or refusing for more than thirty (30) days to grant a
hearing upon a complaint to revoke or suspend a license, shall be limited to
review of the official record of the formal proceedings before the
commissioner, or designee.
   F.   A certified official record of the proceedings taken and prepared by a
certified court reporter or certified shorthand reporter shall be filed by the
local liquor control commissioner within five (5) days after notice of the
filing of such appeal, if the appellant licensee pays for the cost of the
transcript. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-4-22: PENALTIES AND COSTS:
In the event that the liquor control commissioner shall find a licensee guilty
of violating any provision of this chapter, he may order the licensee to pay to
the city any one or more of the following:
   A.   A fine not to exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) for each
violation;
   B.   Reasonable attorney fees incurred by the city and the liquor control
commissioner; and
   C.   Reasonable costs, including court reporter's fees incurred at the
hearing.
The aforesaid remedies shall be in addition to all other remedies available to
the city or the liquor control commissioner, both at law or in equity and not
in lieu thereof. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
CHAPTER 5
FOOD SERVICE VEHICLES
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definition
4-5-2: License Required
4-5-3: Application
4-5-4: Inspection And Investigation
4-5-5: General Regulations
4-5-6: Periodic Inspections
4-5-1: DEFINITION:
"Food service vehicle" is defined as any vehicle, whether motorized or not,
from which pre-prepared packaged food is sold directly to customers for
immediate consumption. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall operate, use, or cause the operation or use in the city of any
food service vehicle without first having obtained a license therefor. License
fees are set forth in section
4-18-1 of this title. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-5-3: APPLICATION:
Application for a food service vehicle license shall be made in conformity with
the general requirements of this code relating to applications for licenses.
The application shall also state the type of the proposed food service vehicle.
(Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-5-4: INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATION:
The city health officer shall make or cause to be made such investigation as is
deemed necessary to determine whether the applicant's proposed food service
vehicle and operations comply with all the provisions of this code relating to
health, sanitation and food service vehicles and with all other applicable
provisions of this code. No license shall be issued to any applicant whose
proposed food service vehicle and operations do not comply with the applicable
provisions of this code. The city health officer shall indicate on the
application for a license the results of the investigation and approval or
disapproval of said application.
The chief of police shall make or cause to be made such investigation as he
deems necessary including the fingerprinting of the applicant and each vehicle
operator to determine whether the applicant is qualified to engage in business.
No license shall be issued to any applicant who does not comply with the
applicable requirements of this code. The chief of police shall indicate on the
application for a license the results of his investigation, and his
recommendation to approve or deny said application. In addition to any other
fees assessed in this chapter, a fee in the amount set forth in section
4-18-1 of this title per person shall be paid by the applicant to cover the
cost of said background check. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-5-5: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
Every holder of a food service vehicle license shall comply strictly with all
the provisions of this code relating to health, sanitation and food service
vehicles and all other applicable provisions of this code. Food service
vehicles may only sell food items that have been manufactured, prepared or
wrapped in a licensed food establishment. In no event may a food service
vehicle be used to cook or otherwise prepare and serve food items to customers.
(Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-5-6: PERIODIC INSPECTIONS:
The city health officer shall inspect or cause to be inspected as often as is
deemed necessary the vehicle and operations of every food service vehicle
operated in the city to determine whether all applicable provisions of this
code are being complied with. Such inspections shall be conducted in accordance
with the provisions of section
4-2-5 of this title. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
CHAPTER 6
FIREARMS DEALERS
SECTION:
4-6-1: General Provisions
4-6-2: Definitions
4-6-3: License Required
4-6-4: License Administration
4-6-5: Conditions Of License
4-6-6: Prohibitions
4-6-7: License Denial Or Revocation
4-6-8: Penalties
4-6-9: Appeal
4-6-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   This chapter shall be known as the DES PLAINES FIREARMS DEALER'S
LICENSE ORDINANCE.
   B.   As provided in article VII, section 6(c) of the Illinois constitution
of 1970, this chapter conflicts with an ordinance of Cook County, and therefore
this chapter shall prevail within this jurisdiction.
   C.   If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence or clause of this
chapter or the application thereof to any person is for any reason deemed to be
invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect, impair or
invalidate any remaining portion, section or part thereof or application of
this chapter to any other person. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
ENGAGED IN THE BUSINESS: The same meaning as in 18 USC section 921(a)(21).
FIREARM: See 430 Illinois Compiled Statutes 65/1.1 for meaning.
FIREARMS DEALER: Any person licensed by the federal bureau of alcohol, tobacco
and firearms as a "dealer" pursuant to section 923(a)(3)(B) or section 923(a)
(3)(C) of title 18 of the United States Code and possessing a "type 01" federal
license; and excluding any person licensed solely as a "collector" pursuant to
section 923(b) of title 18 of the United States Code and possessing only a
"type 03" federal license.
PERSON: Any individual, public or private corporation, partnership, firm,
society or unincorporated association.
PUBLIC PARK: Any land or buildings set apart for public recreation and owned by
any unit of government and any land owned by the forest preserve district of
Cook County.
SCHOOL: Any public or private elementary or secondary school, community
college, college or university. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-6-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Requirements:
      1.   Any person licensed as a firearms dealer, pursuant to federal law,
at a business premises located within the city, engaged in retail sales of
firearms or ammunition, shall apply for and obtain a city firearms dealer's
license pursuant to this chapter by January 1, 1995. A Des Plaines firearms
dealer's license shall be required in addition to any other license required by
law.
      2.   Any person who becomes a federally licensed firearms dealer after
January 1, 1995, or who is currently a federally licensed firearms dealer and
is required under this chapter to obtain a Des Plaines firearms dealer's
license, shall apply for such license within forty five (45) days of receipt of
the federal firearms dealer's license or by January 3, 1995, whichever is
sooner.
      3.   Any person licensed under federal law at more than one location
within the city must obtain a Des Plaines license for each individual location.
A separate application and license fee is required for each location.
   B.   License Fee: The license fees for a Des Plaines firearms dealer's
license are set forth in section
4-18-1 of this title.
   C.   License Application; Issuance:
      1.   Application: All applications for a license under this chapter shall
be made in writing to the city manager or his designee on a form provided for
that purpose. In addition to any other information required by the director,
each application for a license shall contain:
         a.   The applicant's full name, residence and address and telephone
number where the person is engaged in the business of dealing in firearms;
         b.   If the applicant is a corporation, the corporate name, business
and principal place of business of the applicant; the date and state of
incorporation; and the names and residence addresses of the corporate officers
and its registered agent;
         c.   If the applicant is a partnership, the name and business address
and telephone number of the principal office or place of business; the names,
addresses and telephone numbers of all partners; the name, address and
telephone number of a person authorized to receive notices issued pursuant to
this chapter;
         d.   If the applicant is a limited liability company, the name and
business address and telephone number of the principal office or place of
business; the names, addresses and telephone numbers of all managers and
members; the name, address and telephone number of a person authorized to
receive notices issued pursuant to this chapter; and
         e.   Fingerprints of owners and other background information shall be
required in the form and to the extent set forth in the rules, definitions and
regulations promulgated pursuant to section
4-6-4 of this chapter.
      2.   Federal And State Requirements: The city manager or his designee
shall not issue a Des Plaines firearms dealer's license to any person who fails
to provide proof of a valid federal firearms dealer's license and a valid
firearm owner's identification card issued by the state of Illinois.
      3.   Location: The city manager and his designee shall not issue a Des
Plaines firearms dealer's license to any person who is engaged in the business
of dealing in firearms or any other activity requiring a federal firearms
dealer's license, or indicates an intention to do so, within one-fourth (0.25)
mile of the grounds of a school or public park, measured from the property
lines of the respective properties. Firearms dealer's licenses shall only be
issued for permanent places of business and shall not be issued for temporary
sales events.
      4.   Grandfather Clause: The restriction on location contained in
subsection C3 of this section shall not apply to any person who on September 1,
1994, is engaged in the business of dealing in firearms or firearms ammunition
within one-fourth (0.25) mile of the grounds of a school or public park,
measured from the property lines of the respective properties. (Ord. M-19-13,
10-7-2013)
4-6-4: LICENSE ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Administration: The city manager or his designee shall administer the
licensing of firearms dealers. The city manager or his designee shall approve
or deny all applications for licenses. The city manager may suspend or revoke
existing licenses pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   Duties:
      1.   The city manager or his designee may promulgate reasonable rules,
definitions and regulations necessary to carry out the duties imposed by this
chapter including, but not limited to, developing reasonable procedures
consistent with existing practices of licensing persons engaged in the business
of dealing in firearms, and including seeking the assistance of the chief of
police, as necessary, to conduct investigations or inspections in connection
with this chapter.
      2.   Any rules or regulations promulgated under this chapter shall be
filed in the office of the city manager or his designee and the Des Plaines
police chief and shall be made available for public inspection. Copies shall be
made available upon request and payment of a reasonable fee as determined by
the city manager to cover the cost of providing the copy. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-
2013)
4-6-5: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Transfer: No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable or
assignable to any other person or any other location.
   B.   License Posted: Any license issued under this chapter shall be posted
and kept available on the premises covered by the license for inspection by the
Des Plaines chief of police or his officers.
   C.   Records: All sales and other business records relating to the activity
for which a federal firearms dealer's license is required shall also be made
available for inspection upon the request of the chief of police or his
officers. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-6-6: PROHIBITIONS:
Except as provided in subsection
4-6-3C4 of this chapter, the sale of firearms within one-fourth (0.25) mile of
the grounds of a school or public park is prohibited. Each sale in violation of
this section shall constitute a separate and distinct violation. (Ord. M-19-13,
10-7-2013)
4-6-7: LICENSE DENIAL OR REVOCATION:
   A.   The city manager may deny an application for a license if the applicant
fails to provide the information required by, or is otherwise not in compliance
with, any provisions of this chapter or any applicable rules or regulations.
The city manager may also deny an application if, in his opinion, it would be
in the best interest of public health, safety or welfare to do so.
   B.   The city manager may revoke or suspend the license of any person who
violates any provision of this chapter or rules or regulations adopted pursuant
to this chapter. Before any such revocation or suspension is imposed, the
licensee shall be notified by mail of the specific violation and the date for a
hearing on the matter, to occur not fewer than seven (7) days and not more than
twenty one (21) days after the mailing of the notice. The hearing shall be
conducted before the city manager. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-6-8: PENALTIES:
   A.   Failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter shall result in a
daily fine in the amount not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and not
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per day. Each day of operation in
violation of section
4-6-3 of this chapter shall constitute a separate and distinct violation.
   B.   The sale of firearms without a license as required by this chapter or
at a location prohibited by this chapter is punishable by up to six (6) months
imprisonment or a fine as provided in subsection A of this section, or both.
Each sale in violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate and distinct
violation.
   C.   The city may seek an order to restrain violations or enjoining future
operation of a firearms dealer operating in violation of this chapter or both.
(Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-6-9: APPEAL:
Persons who are denied licenses or whose licenses have been suspended or
revoked may appeal such decision in accordance with the procedures set forth in
section
4-2-12 of this title. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
CHAPTER 7
TOBACCO DEALERS
SECTION:
4-7-1: Definitions
4-7-2: Tobacco Dealer's License
4-7-3: Restrictions Relating To Minors And Underage Persons
4-7-4: Certain Free Distributions Prohibited
4-7-5: Responsibility For Agents And Employees
4-7-6: Sanitary And Health Requirements
4-7-7: Inspections
4-7-8: Penalties
4-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT: A product or device, such as an e-cigarette, not
consisting of or containing tobacco that provides for the ingestion into the
body of nicotine, whether by chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling,
snorting, sniffing, or by other means. This does not include tobacco products
as that term is defined in this section or any product approved by the United
States Food and Drug Administration as a non-tobacco product for sale as a
tobacco cessation product, a tobacco dependence product, or for other medicinal
purposes.
E-CIGARETTE: An electronic device that typically includes a mouthpiece, a
heating element or atomizer, a battery, and electronic circuits; provides a gas
derived from a liquid that includes nicotine, propylene glycol, or similar
substance and perhaps other substances; and is inhaled by a user in a manner
that simulates or resembles smoking. The term "e-cigarette" includes all manner
of these devices, regardless of the details of a device's appearance or
marketed name, that are manufactured to resemble a cigarette, cigar, pipe, or
other smoking device. The term "e-cigarette" includes the cartridges and
components of an e-cigarette, individually or in any combination.
MINOR(S): Any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
RETAIL TOBACCO DEALER: Any person selling, offering for sale, exposing for sale
or keeping, with the intention of selling or exchanging at retail, cigarettes,
cigars, snuff, chewing tobacco or tobacco in any form.
TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Any substance that contains tobacco, including, but not
limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipes, snuff, smoking tobacco or smokeless
tobacco.
UNDERAGE PERSON(S): Any person under twenty one (21) years of age. (Ord. M-19-
13, 10-7-2013; amd. Ord. M-7-18, 5-7-2018; Ord. M-1-19, 1-22-2019)
4-7-2: TOBACCO DEALER'S LICENSE:
   A.   License Required: No person shall engage in the business of a retail
tobacco dealer in the City without first having obtained a license therefor.
   B.   Application: An application for a retail tobacco dealer's license shall
be made in conformity with the general requirements of this Code relating to
applications for licenses.
   C.   License Fee: The fee for a tobacco dealer's license shall be set forth
in section
4-18-1 of this title.
   D.   Transfer Of License: The transfer of any license issued hereunder is
hereby expressly prohibited.
   E.   Investigations: The Chief of Police, or any other City official
designated by the Mayor, shall make or cause to be made such investigations as
he deems necessary to determine the character and reputation of any applicant
for a retail tobacco dealer's license and to determine whether said applicant
is a proper person to be entrusted with the sale of cigarettes, cigars or
tobacco in any form. No license shall be issued to any applicant who is not
found to be a person of good character and reputation, or to any firm,
corporation, partnership or association which is not represented in the City by
a person found to be of good character and reputation. The City official
charged with making said investigation shall indicate on the application for
license the results of his investigation and his approval or disapproval of
said application. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-7-3: RESTRICTIONS RELATING TO MINORS AND UNDERAGE PERSONS:
   A.   Restrictions:
      1.   Age Restriction: It shall be unlawful for any person, including any
licensee, to sell, offer for sale, give away or deliver tobacco products or
alternative nicotine products by any means to any person under the age of
twenty one (21) years.
      2.   Signs: Signs informing the public of the age restrictions provided
for in this section shall be posted by every licensee at or near every display
of tobacco products or alternative nicotine products for sale. Each such sign
shall be plainly visible and shall state:
The sale of tobacco products or alternative nicotine products to persons under
twenty-one years of age is prohibited by law under penalty of fines of up to
seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00). Persons under twenty-one years of
age who possess tobacco products or alternative nicotine products or
misrepresent their age by any means whatsoever are subject to assessment of
fines of two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) for each subsequent offense.
The text of such signs shall be in red letters on a white background, at least
one inch (1") high and shall be in addition to any other warnings required by
statute or ordinance.
      3.   Self-Service Sales Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to sell, offer
for sale, give away, or display tobacco products or alternative nicotine
products for sale at any location where the consumer can acquire those products
through self-service. All tobacco products or alternative nicotine products
will be displayed from behind a sales/service counter so that no consumer can
access tobacco products or alternative nicotine products without assistance by
an employee of the licensee.
   B.   Minimum Age To Sell Tobacco Products Or Alternative Nicotine Products:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee and/or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee, to engage, employ
or permit any person under twenty one (21) years of age to sell tobacco
products or alternative nicotine products in any licensed premises.
   C.   Purchase, Use Or Possession Of Tobacco Products Or Alternative Nicotine
Products By Minors Or Underage Persons Prohibited:
      1.   Except as provided in this section, it shall be unlawful for any
person under the age of twenty one (21) years to purchase, possess, or use
alternative nicotine products or tobacco products, cigarette papers or
paraphernalia that is designed for the smoking or ingestion of tobacco
products, or to misrepresent his age, or to use any false or altered
identification for the purpose of purchasing tobacco products or alternative
nicotine products.
      2.   It shall not be a violation of this section for a person under
twenty one (21) years of age to use any tobacco products or alternative
nicotine products where:
         a.   Such use takes place under the direction, supervision and
approval of the parent, parents, or legal guardian of such person; and
         b.   Such use takes place in the privacy of a home or established
place of worship or tribal meeting place; provided, however, where such use
takes place in an established place of worship or tribal meeting place such use
shall not be a violation only where use is in the performance of a religious
service or tribal ceremony and the religious group or tribe is legally
established and recognized by the State.
   D.   Penalties:
      1.   Violation Of Restrictions: Any person who violates subsection A of
this section shall be subject to a fine in accordance with the general penalty
set forth in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each and every offense.
      2.   Minimum Age To Sell; Purchase, Use Or Possession By Minors Or
Underage Persons: Any person who violates subsection B or C of this section
shall be subject to a fine of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each and
every offense.
      3.   Alternative Penalty: If the offense is related to subsection C of
this section and the minor or underage person is a first-time offender and is
enrolled as a full-time student at a school located in the City, the court or
Administrative Adjudication Hearing Officer may assign the offender to a
diversion and education program that is approved by Maine Township High School
District 207 or Township High School District 214. The violator shall pay for
the cost of the program. (Ord. M-1-19, 1-22-2019)
4-7-4: CERTAIN FREE DISTRIBUTIONS PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any person in the business of
selling or otherwise distributing, promoting, or advertising tobacco products
or alternative nicotine products, or any employee or agent of any such licensee
or person, in the course of such licensee's or person's business, to
distribute, give away or deliver tobacco products or alternative nicotine
products to any person free of charge or to any person on any publicly owned
lands or buildings or facilities within the City's corporate boundaries.
   B.   Any person who violates this section shall be punished by a fine of not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
(Ord. M-7-18, 5-7-2018)
4-7-5: RESPONSIBILITY FOR AGENTS AND EMPLOYEES:
Every act or omission of any nature, constituting a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter by any officer, director, manager or other agent or
employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of such
licensee, and such licensee shall be punishable in the same manner as if such
act or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee personally. (Ord. M-
19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-7-6: SANITARY AND HEALTH REQUIREMENTS:
It shall be the duty of all persons licensed hereunder, upon the demand of the
City Health Officer, to furnish for inspection samples of all cigarettes,
cigars or tobacco or alternative nicotine products in any form sold or offered
for sale by them, and it shall be the duty of such person to keep their
premises and buildings in a clean and sanitary condition. No person shall
expose for sale, sell or offer for sale to any person, directly or indirectly,
within the City, any cigarettes, cigars or tobacco or alternative nicotine
products in any form containing opium, morphine, jimson weed, belladonna,
strychnine, cocaine or any other poisonous or deleterious drug or drugs. (Ord.
M-7-18, 5-7-2018)
4-7-7: INSPECTIONS:
The City Health Officer shall inspect and examine, or cause to be inspected and
examined, as often as is deemed necessary, all places where cigarettes, cigars
or tobacco or alternative nicotine products in any form are licensed to be sold
at retail within the City, and all such cigarettes, cigars or tobacco or
alternative nicotine products in any form, to determine whether all applicable
laws of the State and provisions of this Code are being complied with. (Ord. M-
7-18, 5-7-2018)
4-7-8: PENALTIES:
With the exception of those provisions contained in subsections
4-7-3A and D and section
4-7-4 of this chapter, any person violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than the fine provided in the general penalty section
1-4-1 of this Code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or in which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
CHAPTER 8
PAWNBROKERS AND SECONDHAND DEALERS
SECTION:
4-8-1: Definitions
4-8-2: License Requirements
4-8-3: Records And Documentation Required
4-8-4: Sale Of Property
4-8-5: Inspections
4-8-6: Prohibited Acts, Transactions
4-8-7: Penalty
4-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
AUDIO-VIDEO EQUIPMENT: Any stereo, speaker, video recorder, video camera,
television, tape or disc player, telephone, pager, satellite dish or other
machine of similar import or use.
PAWNBROKER: Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of
receiving property in pledge or as security for money or other thing advanced
to the pawner or pledgor.
PRECIOUS METALS: Any item containing, in whole or in part, gold, silver or
platinum, such as bullion, coin collections, rings, bracelets, silverware,
teeth, jewelry, chains, necklaces or items of similar import.
PRECIOUS STONE OR GEM: Any mineral or petrified material that when cut and
polished can be used in jewelry.
SECONDHAND DEALER: Any person, company or entity engaged in the business of
buying, selling, trading, consignment selling, or otherwise transferring for
value any secondhand property. However, the term shall not include pawnbrokers
as defined and licensed by this chapter; nor shall the term include sales and
exchanges of used articles and materials conducted by or controlled by
charitable or religious organizations.
SECONDHAND PROPERTY: Any used musical instrument, appliance, tool, machine,
machinery, audio-video equipment, camera, computer hardware, jewelry (whether
made in full or in part of precious metal or stone or gem), article (whether
made in full or in part of precious metal or stone or gem), watch, coin or
other currency. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-8-2: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: No person shall engage in the business of pawnbroker
or secondhand dealer within the city without a license. A person simultaneously
engaged in the business of both pawnbroker and secondhand dealer is exempt from
obtaining a secondhand dealer license so long as that person maintains a valid
and effective pawnbroker's license. (Ord. M-4-17, 2-6-2017)
   B.   Applications For License: Applications for a pawnbroker's or secondhand
dealer's license shall be made in conformity with the general requirements of
this code relating to applications for licenses.
   C.   Fee: The license fees are set forth in section
4-18-1 of this title.
   D.   Eligibility For License: To be eligible for a pawnbroker's license or a
secondhand dealer's license, an applicant must:
      1.   Not have been convicted of a felony within the last ten (10) years
and not be acting as a beneficial owner for someone who has been convicted of a
felony within the last ten (10) years; and
      2.   Not have been convicted, and not be acting as a beneficial owner for
someone who has been convicted of, pled guilty to or been found guilty by a
court of law of a criminal offense or ordinance violation that the city finds
directly relates to the duties and responsibilities of the pawnbroker or
secondhand dealer within the last ten (10) years.
If the applicant for a pawnbroker's license or a secondhand dealer's license is
not an individual, the eligibility requirements of this chapter apply to each
operator of the business seeking to be licensed and to each direct or
beneficial owner of at least ten percent (10%) of the outstanding equity
interest of the business seeking to be licensed and if the applicant is a
corporation, to each officer and director of the corporation.
   E.   Investigations: The chief of police shall make or cause to be made such
investigation as he deems necessary to determine whether the applicant is
qualified to engage in business as a pawnbroker or secondhand dealer. No
license shall be issued to any applicant who does not comply with the
applicable requirements of this code. The chief of police shall indicate on the
application for a license the result of his investigation and his
recommendation to approve or deny said application. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-8-3: RECORDS AND DOCUMENTATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Memorandum Of Pledgor: Every pawnbroker shall, at the time of making
any advancement or loan, deliver to the person pawning or pledging any
property, a memorandum, contract or note signed by him containing an accurate
account and description, in the English language, of all goods, articles or
other things pawned, pledged, purchased, traded or otherwise obtained, the
amount of money, value or things loaned thereon, the time of the transaction,
the rate of interest to be paid on the loan, the name and residence of the
person making the transaction, and the amount of any fees charged.
   B.   Record Of Accounts:
      1.   Every pawnbroker and secondhand dealer shall keep an accurate
account and description, in the English language, of the goods, articles or
other things received, the time of the exchange, the rate of interest to be
paid, if any, on the loan, and the name and address of the person involved in
the transaction. In addition, pawnbrokers shall also document the time of the
loan and the amount of money loaned thereon for each transaction. Such account
must be made at the time of the transaction. Such account shall be made in a
standard book, or other form approved by the city, and shall be legibly typed
or printed in ink.
      2.   The description of each musical instrument, camera, appliance or
machine of any type shall include: the brand name, the model number or type and
any serial number or other identification number installed by the manufacturer;
the description shall also include every other identifying marking, such as an
inscription, a social security number, a name, a nickname or address appearing
on the item. The description of each watch shall include: the brand name, model
number, metal or metals of composition, a description of the band, a
description of the face numbers, the color, cut and type of stone or stones and
any inscriptions appearing on the watch. The description of each item of
jewelry shall include the type of metal or metals of composition, the type and
cut of each stone, all inscriptions and the weight of each item.
      3.   No entry in such book shall be erased, mutilated or changed.
      4.   Whenever a pawnbroker shall buy any "secondhand property", as
defined in section
4-8-1 of this chapter, the same shall be recorded in the same manner as a
pledge, and said record shall show all information required for a pawn or
pledge.
   C.   Identification: Every pawnbroker or secondhand dealer shall require two
(2) forms of identification to be shown to him by each person pledging,
pawning, purchasing, selling, exchanging or trading any goods, articles or
other things. One of the two (2) forms of identification must include his
address, date of birth and social security number. One of the two (2) forms of
identification must be a photograph identification card. These forms of
identification shall include, but are not limited to, any of the following:
driver's license, social security card, utility bill, employee or student
identification card, credit card, a civic, union or professional association
membership card.
   D.   Daily Reports: It shall be the duty of every pawnbroker and secondhand
dealer to input on a daily basis a report of all transactions conducted,
including all details in the record of accounts described in subsection B of
this section, into a nationally recognized law enforcement database approved in
advance by the chief of police. In the event that the chief of police has not
approved such a database or the approved database becomes unavailable or
inaccessible for reasons beyond the control of the pawnbroker or the secondhand
dealer, the pawnbroker or the secondhand dealer shall make out and deliver to
the city, on each day before the hour of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon, a legible
and exact copy from the standard book, as required in subsection B of this
section. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-8-4: SALE OF PROPERTY:
   A.   Pledged Goods: No goods, articles or other things pledged, exchanged or
otherwise received on deposit by a pawnbroker shall be sold, redeemed, or
removed from the place of business of such pawnbroker for the space of two (2)
business days, excluding Saturday, Sunday and holidays, after the delivery or
input of the daily report required by subsection
4-8-3D of this chapter; and no personal property pawned or pledged shall be
sold or disposed of by any such pawnbroker within one year from the time when
the pawner or pledgor shall default in payment of interest on the money so
advanced by the pawnbroker, unless by the written consent of such pawner or
pledgor. No pawnbroker shall offer or give any inducement or payment for the
consent of the pawner or pledgor for the early sale or disposition of personal
property.
   B.   Secondhand Goods: No goods, article or other item of secondhand
property purchased, traded, exchanged or otherwise received by a pawnbroker or
a secondhand dealer shall be sold or removed from the place of business of said
pawnbroker or secondhand dealer for a period of ten (10) days after the daily
report required by subsection
4-8-3D of this chapter is delivered or input, except for any watch, coin,
jewelry or item that contains, whether in full or in part, precious stones,
gems or metals, which item shall be held for twenty one (21) days. (Ord. M-19-
13, 10-7-2013)
4-8-5: INSPECTIONS:
The records and documents required in this chapter, as well as every article or
other thing of value so pawned, pledged, purchased, sold, exchanged or traded
shall at all times be open to inspections by the city or any police or law
enforcement agency. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-8-6: PROHIBITED ACTS, TRANSACTIONS:
   A.   Removal Of Identifying Marks: No pawnbroker or secondhand dealer shall
remove, alter or obliterate any other identifying marks engraved or etched upon
an item of personal property.
   B.   Minors:
      1.   No pawnbroker or secondhand dealer shall have any business dealings
with any person under eighteen (18) years of age, except upon the written
consent of the parent or guardian of such person to each particular
transaction.
      2.   No person shall do work as a pawnbroker or secondhand dealer who is
under eighteen (18) years of age, and no pawnbroker or secondhand dealer shall
employ a person who is under eighteen (18) years of age to assist him in his
business.
   C.   Property From Intoxicated Person Or Thief: No pawnbroker or secondhand
dealer shall take any article in loan or pledge from any person appearing to be
intoxicated, nor from any person known to have been convicted of theft. Nor
shall a pawnbroker or secondhand dealer take any article of secondhand
property, from any person appearing to be intoxicated, nor from any person
known to have been convicted of theft. A law enforcement officer may provide
such criminal conviction information to the pawnbroker or secondhand dealer.
When any person is found to be the owner of stolen property which has been
pawned, pledged, exchanged, traded, purchased or otherwise received by a
pawnbroker or secondhand dealer, such property shall be returned to the owner
thereof without payment of the money paid or advanced by the pawnbroker or
secondhand dealer thereon or any costs or charges of any kind which the
pawnbroker or secondhand dealer may have placed upon the same.
   D.   Stolen Goods: It shall be the duty of every pawnbroker or secondhand
dealer to report to the police any good, article or thing received by him, if
he shall believe that the article was stolen or lost.
   E.   Weapons: No pawnbroker or secondhand dealer shall receive as a pledge
or purchase any firearm, as defined in 430 Illinois Compiled Statutes 65/1.1 et
seq.; nor shall any pawnbroker or secondhand dealer receive as pledge or
purchase any blackjack, slingshot, sand club, sandbag, metal knuckles, throwing
star or switchblade. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-8-7: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined as
provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each day that a violation is found to
exist shall constitute a separate violation. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
CHAPTER 9
SOLICITORS
SECTION:
4-9-1: Definitions
4-9-2: Solicitation On Private Property
4-9-3: Exemptions
4-9-4: Licenses And Identification Badges
4-9-5: Regulations
4-9-6: False Personation
4-9-7: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
4-9-8: Denials And Appeals
4-9-9: Penalty
4-9-10: Solicitation On Public Property
4-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter:
APPLICANT: Any person that files an application for a solicitation license as
provided for in this chapter.
CHIEF OF POLICE: The city of Des Plaines chief of police or his designee.
PERSON: Any individual, organization, group, association, partnership, joint
venture, corporation, trust, or any combination thereof.
PREMISES: Any occupied building or structure, or any separate dwelling unit
contained within any occupied building or structure, of any type within the
city.
SOLICITATION ACTIVITIES: Practices of solicitors as listed herein, defined
further as seeking to sell, offer for sale, sell or deliver, barter, exchange,
or obtain a gift, a contribution, a subscription, or any other goods or
services, whether for a charitable, political, commercial, or noncommercial
organization or purpose, except when the activity is conducted within a
building zoned to permit the activity and under the ownership or control of the
solicitor; religious proselytizing or political canvassing are not solicitation
activities and are not regulated by the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. M-58-
16, 1-3-2017)
4-9-2: SOLICITATION ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any solicitor to engage in
solicitation activities on private property in the city without first obtaining
a license from the city.
   B.   Application For License: The application for a solicitor's license
shall contain all information relevant and necessary to determine whether a
particular license may be issued, including, but not limited to: (Ord. M-58-16,
1-3-2017)
      1.   Proof of the identity and residence address of the applicant and all
persons who will be conducting soliciting activities under the requested
license including a driver's license or state or federal government issued
identification;
      2.   A brief description of the nature, character and quality of the
goods or merchandise to be sold or the cause or purpose funds are being
solicited for;
      3.   If solicitor is employed by another, the name and business address
of such person, association, organization, company or corporation;
      4.   A statement that the applicant and all persons who will be
conducting soliciting activities under the requested license have never been
convicted of, pleaded guilty to, or been found guilty by a court of law or
administrative tribunal, of a felony, or any offense involving bodily harm or
the threat of bodily harm, fraud, theft or deceptive practices;
      5.   The chief of police shall make or cause to be made such
investigation as he deems necessary including the fingerprinting of the
applicant and all persons who will be conducting soliciting activities under
the requested license to determine whether they are qualified to engage in
business. No license shall be issued to any applicant who does not comply with
the applicable requirements of this code. The chief of police shall indicate on
the application for a license the results of his investigation, and his
recommendation to approve or deny said application. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
      6.   A statement that the applicant understands it is unlawful, pursuant
to subsections
4-9-5C and D of this chapter, to solicit at a property that displays a "No
Solicitation" sign or to not immediately leave private property after the
occupant has asked the solicitor to leave.
   C.   Fees: The applicant for a license under this chapter shall pay a
license fee as set forth in section
4-18-1 of this title. In addition to any other fees assessed in this chapter, a
fee per person in the amount set forth in section
4-18-1 of this title shall be paid by the applicant to cover the cost of said
background check.
   D.   Term, Renewal Of License:
      1.   Term: A solicitation license shall be valid for a period of sixty
(60) days.
      2.   Renewals: Licenses may be renewed, provided an application for
renewal and license fees are received by the city no later than the expiration
date of the current license. Applications received after that date shall be
processed as new applications. The director of community and economic
development shall review each application for renewal to determine that the
applicant is in full compliance with the provisions of this chapter. If the
director of community and economic development finds that the application meets
such requirements, the director shall issue a new license. (Ord. M-58-16, 1-3-
2017)
4-9-3: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Minors under the age of eighteen (18), or any persons who participate
in school sponsored solicitation activities are exempt from the licensing and
bonding requirements of this chapter except when they are acting as agents of
adults covered by this chapter.
   B.   All governmental bodies, including agencies, departments, and political
subdivisions of the state of Illinois or the United States Of America that are
soliciting for governmental purposes or the betterment of the community as a
whole.
   C.   Members or representatives of a not for profit organization or
recognized community organization with a current Des Plaines business
registration certificate must comply with the requirements of this section, but
are exempt from the licensing fee requirements set forth in subsection
4-9-2C of this chapter.
   D.   All such exempted organization representatives shall respect and honor
any "No Solicitor" notifications that are posted upon the properties within the
city of Des Plaines. (Ord. M-58-16, 1-3-2017)
4-9-4: LICENSES AND IDENTIFICATION BADGES:
   A.   The license issued to a solicitor shall be carried with the solicitor
while he or she is engaged in the business of soliciting. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-
2013)
   B.   In addition to carrying the license, a photo identification card issued
by the solicitor's company must be prominently displayed when soliciting. The
photo identification card must include a current photo of the individual
solicitor, the name of the individual solicitor, and the name of the company or
organization that the solicitor represents.
   C.   A license shall be used only by the person to whom it is issued and may
not be transferred to any other person. (Ord. M-58-16, 1-3-2017)
4-9-5: REGULATIONS:
The following regulations apply to solicitors engaged in solicitation
activities in the city:
   A.   Solicitors shall be allowed to conduct solicitation activities only
between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
Monday through Saturday. No soliciting is permitted on Sundays or legal
holidays.
   B.   No solicitor shall engage in solicitation activities regulated under
this chapter on public property without first procuring special authorization
from the corporate authority of the city or their designee.
   C.   No solicitor shall conduct solicitation activities in defiance of any
notice exhibited by a residence or business indicating that solicitors are not
welcome or not invited. Such notice shall be displayed within a three foot (3')
radius of the front entry door of the premises and shall state legibly "No
Solicitation" or any other such notice that would inform a reasonable person
that solicitors are not welcome to solicit at the premises.
   D.   Solicitors shall immediately leave a premises upon receiving a request
to leave or cease conducting solicitation from anyone present at the premises.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any solicitor to cheat, deceive or
fraudulently misrepresent any product or the price thereof, whether through
himself or through an employee, or to barter, sell or peddle any goods,
merchandise or wares other than those specified in his license application.
(Ord. M-58-16, 1-3-2017)
4-9-6: FALSE PERSONATION:
   A.   A person commits a false personation when he falsely represents himself
to be a member or representative of any veterans' or public safety personnel
organization or a representative of any charitable organization, or when any
person exhibits or uses in any manner any decal, badge or insignia of any
charitable, public safety personnel or veterans' organization when not
authorized to do so by the charitable, public safety personnel or veterans'
organization. "Public safety personnel organization" has the meaning ascribed
to that term in section 1 of the solicitation for charity act 1
.
   B.   A person commits a false personation when he falsely represents himself
or herself to be a veteran in seeking employment or public office. In this
subsection, "veteran" means a person who has served in the armed services or
reserved forces of the United States.
   C.   No person shall use the words "Des Plaines police", "Des Plaines police
department", "Des Plaines patrol officer", "Des Plaines sergeant", "Des Plaines
police commander", "Des Plaines lieutenant", "Des Plaines peace officer", "Des
Plaines fire", "Des Plaines fire department", "Des Plaines firefighter", "Des
Plaines paramedic", "Des Plaines fire officer", "Des Plaines fireman", or any
other words to the same effect in the title of any organization, magazine, or
other publication without the express approval of the Des Plaines city council.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the legal name of an organization contains
any of the aforesaid words, the legal name may be used, provided that the
following disclaimer is made by the organization:
This organization is not affiliated with, nor do receipts go to the direct
benefit of, the city of Des Plaines, city departments, or city employees in
their official capacity as employees of the city.
   D.   No person may claim or represent that he is acting on behalf of the
police department, fire department or chief of police of the police department,
or fire chief of the fire department when soliciting financial contributions or
selling or delivering or offering to sell or deliver any merchandise, goods,
services, memberships or advertisements unless the city council has first
entered into a written agreement with the person or with an organization with
which the person is affiliated and the agreement permits the activity.
   E.   No person, when soliciting financial contributions or selling or
delivering or offering to sell or deliver any merchandise, goods, services,
memberships, or advertisements within the city, may claim or represent that he
or she is representing or acting on behalf of any governmental organization by
any name which includes "officer", "peace officer", "police", "law
enforcement", "trooper", "sheriff", "deputy", "deputy sheriff", "city police",
"paramedic", "fireman", "firefighter", "city fire", or any other word or words
which would reasonably be understood to imply that the organization is composed
of law enforcement or fire personnel, unless the person is actually
representing or acting on behalf of the nongovernmental organization, and the
nongovernmental organization is controlled by and governed by a membership and
represents a group or association of active duty peace officers, retired peace
officers, disabled or injured peace officers, active duty firefighters,
firefighter/paramedics, retired firefighters, disabled or injured firefighters,
and before commencing the solicitation or the sale or the offers to sell any
merchandise, goods, services, memberships or advertisements, a written contract
between the soliciting or selling person and the nongovernmental organization
has been entered into.
   F.   No person may solicit financial contributions or sell or deliver or
offer to sell or deliver any merchandise, goods, services, memberships, or
advertisements on behalf of a police, sheriff, or other law enforcement
department or fire department unless that person is actually representing or
acting on behalf of the department or governmental organization and has entered
into a written contract with the police chief, fire chief, or head of the law
enforcement or fire safety department, and the corporate or municipal authority
thereof, or the sheriff, which specifies and states clearly and fully the
purposes for which the proceeds of the solicitation, contribution or sale will
be used. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 460/1.
4-9-7: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Any license issued may be suspended or revoked for any of the following
reasons: (Ord. M-58-16, 1-3-2017)
      1.   Fraud or misrepresentation in the application for a license;
      2.   Fraud or misrepresentation in the course of conducting solicitation
activities;
      3.   Conducting solicitation activities contrary to the conditions of the
license, or in violation of any ordinance of the city; (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-
2013)
      4.   Conducting solicitation activities in such a manner as to create a
public nuisance or constitute a danger to the public health, safety or welfare;
      5.   The chief of police may, at his discretion, automatically suspend a
solicitation license upon the issuance of a citation for any violation of the
city's ordinances to any one representative of a licensed person, pending the
adjudication of the citation. (Ord. M-58-16, 1-3-2017)
   B.   Upon suspension or revocation, the city shall deliver written notice to
the license holder stating the action taken and the reasons supporting such
action. The written notice shall be delivered to the license holder's place of
business or mailed to the license holder's last known address. (Ord. M-19-13,
10-7-2013)
4-9-8: DENIALS AND APPEALS:
   A.   An application for a solicitation license may be denied if the
applicant or any individual listed as a solicitor on the application was found
to have violated any city ordinance, had a judgment filed against it in part or
by another recognized agency, or had any license revoked, within twenty four
(24) months of the application date.
   B.   Persons who are denied licenses or whose licenses have been suspended
or revoked may appeal such decision in accordance with the procedures set forth
in section
4-2-12 of this title. (Ord. M-58-16, 1-3-2017)
4-9-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to a fine as provided in the general penalty in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense.
Any person violating subsection
4-9-5C or D of this chapter may be charged with criminal trespass to real
property, a class B misdemeanor 1
. (Ord. M-58-16, 1-3-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/21-3.
4-9-10: SOLICITATION ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   Permission Required: A person may conduct solicitation activities on
public property or public streets only with advance written permission from the
corporate authorities.
   B.   Requests For Permission: Requests for permission to conduct
solicitation activities on public property or public streets shall be made in
writing prior to the requested date(s) and shall contain the following:
      1.   The name, address, telephone number of the person applying for
permission;
      2.   The name, telephone number, e-mail address of the representative of
the organization on whose behalf the solicitation activities are being
conducted;
      3.   The names, telephone numbers, and state IDs of each individual
solicitor who will be conducting the solicitation activities;
      4.   The intersection or location where the solicitation activities will
be conducted;
      5.   Dates and times of the proposed solicitation activities;
      6.   A description of the solicitation activity in which the person is
engaged;
      7.   An agreement to indemnify and hold the city, its officials,
officers, employees and agents harmless from any claims arising from
solicitation on public property or public streets in a form approved by the
city attorney.
   C.   Regulations:
      1.   Each solicitor must carry the written permission from the city with
them at all times while conducting solicitation activities;
      2.   Solicitation on a public street shall be allowed only at
intersections where all traffic is required to come to a full stop;
      3.   Any individual engaged in the act of solicitation on public property
or public streets must wear a high visibility vest;
      4.   In case of an emergency, a dangerous or potentially dangerous
situation, or when the conduct of any solicitor has been deemed detrimental to
the safety, welfare or best interest of the city or public, the chief of police
shall have the authority to suspend or revoke the permission for such period of
time as deemed necessary under the circumstances. (Ord. M-58-16, 1-3-2017)
CHAPTER 10
CONTRACTORS
SECTION:
4-10-1: Definitions
4-10-2: License Requirements
4-10-3: Fees
4-10-4: Compliance
4-10-5: Inspections
4-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases as used in this chapter shall have the
following meanings, unless a different meaning is required by the context:
BUILDING CONTRACTOR: Any person engaged in the business of constructing,
altering or repairing buildings or other structures or sidewalks or street
pavements, including, but not limited to: cement, concrete or paving
contractors, masonry contractors, carpentry contractors, lathing contractors,
electrical contractors, heating contractors, air conditioning or refrigeration
contractors, plumbing or irrigation contractors, steamfitting contractors,
house raising or shoring contractors, sheet metal contractors, glazing
contractors, excavating contractors, sewer contractors, plastering contractors,
drywall contractors, painting contractors, board up contractors, demolition,
razing, shearing or moving contractors, landscaping contractors, snow removal
contractors, roofing contractors, tuckpointing contractors, insulating
contractors, and general contractors. Any person engaged in the construction,
repair or alteration of any building, structure or street or sidewalk pavement
within the city for which a building permit is required, is presumed to be a
building contractor and must be licensed hereunder, unless such presumption is
rebutted.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, limited
liability company, trust, or other legal entity. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-10-2: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: No person shall engage in the business of building
contractor without first having obtained a license therefor.
   B.   Application: An application for a building contractor's license shall
be made in conformity with the general requirements of this code relating to
applications for license. In addition to the general license application
requirements, persons seeking a contractor's license shall also provide the
director of community and economic development with the following as part of
their application submission:
      1.   The number of individual employees of the applicant which will be
operating under such license,
      2.   The type of contracting activity for which a license is requested,
      3.   Proof that all licenses that the contractor is required to maintain
are current and in good standing, and
      4.   A sworn statement that the applicant agrees to comply with this
section and all other provisions of this code relating to or regulating the
activities engaged in by said applicant.
All applications must be signed by a person who is authorized to make
representations on behalf of and bind the business. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-10-3: FEES:
The annual fee for a contractor's business license is set forth in section
4-18-1 of this title; provided, however, that building contractors that are
licensed by the state of Illinois shall be exempted from paying the fee set
forth in section
4-18-1 of this title. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-10-4: COMPLIANCE:
All contractors licensed pursuant to this chapter shall be required to do all
of the following:
   A.   Secure the appropriate and necessary building permits required by this
code before undertaking to construct, alter, repair, add to, subtract from,
improve, move, wreck or demolish the whole or any part of any building,
structure or sidewalk or street pavements;
   B.   Comply with all building regulations contained in this code;
   C.   Remove or cause to be removed at least once each week from the site of
said contractor's activities all trash, refuse and waste materials;
   D.   At all times, keep the site of all construction, alteration, or repair
activities in an orderly condition, free from standing water, unguarded
dangerous implements and health and safety hazards; and
   E.   At no time obstruct traffic, streets or sidewalks or permit dirt or
waste materials from falling or being carried onto such public ways. (Ord. M-
19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-10-5: INSPECTIONS:
The provisions of this section are declared to be of a regulatory nature, and
it shall at all times be the duty of the chief of police, the sanitarian, the
fire chief and the building official and zoning administrator regularly to
inspect or cause to be inspected the site of any licensed contractor's
activities and to investigate whether persons engaged in such activities are
properly licensed and that their activities are being conducted and operated in
accordance with the provisions of this code applicable thereto. (Ord. M-19-13,
10-7-2013)
CHAPTER 11
FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES
SECTION:
4-11-1: Compliance Required
4-11-2: Payment To City
4-11-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
No corporation, company or association which is not incorporated under the laws
of the state of Illinois shall engage in effecting fire insurance in the city,
or to transact any business of fire insurance in the city, without fully
complying with the provisions of this chapter and 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/11-10-1. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-11-2: PAYMENT TO CITY:
Every corporation, company, and association regulated by this chapter shall pay
to the treasurer of the Des Plaines foreign fire insurance board for the
maintenance, use and benefit of the fire department, a sum not exceeding two
percent (2%) of the gross receipts received from fire insurance upon property
situated within the city, as provided in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-10-
1. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
CHAPTER 12
DAYCARE CENTERS
(Repealed by Ord. M-9-22)
CHAPTER 13
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
4-13-1: Definitions
4-13-2: License Required
4-13-3: Filing And Fee
4-13-4: Appeal
4-13-5: License Application Requirements
4-13-6: Issuance Of License
4-13-7: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
4-13-8: Facility Requirements
4-13-9: Operating Requirements
4-13-10: Outcall Registration And Service
4-13-11: Inspection Of Establishment
4-13-12: Employment Age Restrictions
4-13-13: Display And Transfer Of License
4-13-14: Exemptions
4-13-15: Public Nuisance
4-13-16: Penalty
4-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
CERTIFIED MASSAGE THERAPIST: An individual who has taken courses in massage
therapy at, and has received a diploma in the area of massage therapy from, an
educational institution offering degrees and/or certifications in massage
therapy and approved or accredited by the commission on massage training
accreditation/approval (hereinafter COMTAA), an independent affiliate of the
American Massage Therapy Association, or the Institutional Massage Somatic
Therapies Accreditation Council (hereinafter IMSTAC), a division of the
Associated Bodywork And Massage Professionals of Evergreen, Colorado.
EMPLOYEE: Any person other than a massage therapist who renders any service in
connection with the operation of a massage business and receives compensation
from the operator of the business or patrons.
HEALTH OFFICER: The city of Des Plaines sanitarian.
LICENSEE: The operator of a massage establishment.
MASSAGE: Any method of pressure on or friction against or stroking, kneading,
rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulating of the external soft parts
of the body with the hands or with the aid of any mechanical or electrical
apparatus or appliance, with or without such supplementary aids as rubbing
alcohol, liniments, antiseptics, oils, powder, creams, lotions, ointments or
other similar preparations commonly used in this practice.
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT: Any establishment having a fixed place of business where
any person, firm, association or corporation engages in, or carries on, or
permits to be engaged in or carried on any of the activities mentioned in this
chapter.
MASSAGE THERAPIST: Any person who, for any consideration whatsoever, engages in
the practice of "massage" as herein defined.
OUTCALL MASSAGE SERVICE: Any business, the function of which is to engage in or
carry on massages at a location designated by the customer or client rather
than at a massage establishment.
PERSON: Any individual, copartnership, firm, association, joint stock company,
corporation or combination of individuals of whatever form or character.
SEXUAL OR GENITAL AREA: Genitals, pubic area, buttocks, anus or perineum of any
person, or the vulva or breasts of a female. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-13-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct,
carry on or permit to be engaged in, conducted or carried on, in or upon any
premises in the city, the operating of a "massage establishment" as herein
defined, without first having obtained a license from the city. All individuals
performing massage shall be licensed by the state of Illinois. The owner or
manager shall keep with his or her business records a copy of the state license
of each individual performing massage in their establishment.
   B.   Exceptions: An individual duly licensed as a massage therapist by the
state of Illinois, and working in a medical office, exercise facility, fitness
center, beauty salon or spa, or physical therapy business, which is licensed by
the city, shall be allowed to practice massage therapy without having to be
affiliated with a licensed massage establishment. The licensed massage
therapist doing business in Des Plaines shall give a copy of the state of
Illinois license to the city's licensing department. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-13-3: FILING AND FEE:
   A.   Every applicant for a license to maintain, operate or conduct a massage
establishment shall file an application in duplicate under oath with the chief
of police upon a form provided by said chief of police and pay a nonrefundable
filing fee set forth in section
4-18-1 of this title, plus the actual cost of processing the fingerprints as
required by subsection
4-13-5B8 of this chapter, to the director of finance services, who shall issue
a receipt which shall be attached to the application filed with the chief of
police. The renewal fee shall be set forth in section
4-18-1 of this title, plus the actual cost of processing any additional
fingerprints not previously processed by the police department.
   B.   The city manager shall within ten (10) days refer copies of such
application to the community development department, the fire department and
the police department. These departments shall, within thirty (30) days,
inspect the premises proposed to be operated as a massage establishment and
make written recommendations to the city manager concerning compliance with the
codes, laws and ordinances they administer.
   C.   Within thirty (30) days of receipt of the recommendations of the
aforesaid departments, the city manager shall notify the applicant that his
application is granted, denied or held for further investigation. The period of
such additional investigation shall not exceed an additional thirty (30) days
unless otherwise agreed to by the applicant. Upon the conclusion of such
additional investigation, the city manager shall advise the applicant in
writing whether the application is granted or denied.
   D.   Whenever an application is denied or held for further investigation,
the city manager shall advise the applicant in writing of the reasons for such
action. An application may be denied by the city manager if he finds:
      1.   That the operation, as proposed by the applicant, if permitted,
would not have complied with all applicable laws, including, but not limited
to, all zoning, building, fire, and health codes and any other applicable
ordinances and regulations; or
      2.   That the applicant and/or any other person who will be directly or
indirectly engaged in the management and operation of a massage establishment
has been convicted, pled guilty to, or been found guilty by a court of law of:
         a.   A felony;
         b.   An offense involving sexual misconduct with children;
         c.   Prostitution, soliciting for a prostitute, pimping or other
offenses opposed to decency and morality.
The city manager, at his discretion, may issue a license to any person
convicted of any of the crimes in subsections D2a, D2b and D2c of this section
if he finds that such conviction occurred at least ten (10) years prior to the
date of application, the applicant has had no subsequent convictions and the
applicant has shown evidence of rehabilitation sufficient to warrant the public
trust.
   E.   The failure or refusal of the applicant to promptly give any
information relevant to the investigation of the application, or his refusal or
failure to appear at any reasonable time and place for examination under oath
regarding the said application, or his refusal to submit to or cooperate with
any inspection required by this chapter shall constitute an admission by the
applicant that he is ineligible for such permit and shall be grounds for denial
thereof by the city manager.
   F.   Every massage establishment license issued pursuant to this chapter
shall terminate at expiration of the calendar year or unless sooner suspended
or revoked. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-13-4: APPEAL:
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the city manager in regard to the
denial of an application for a business license, or the suspension or
revocation of a business license, shall have the right to appeal to the city
council in the manner provided in section
4-2-12 of this title. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-13-5: LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The application for a license to operate a massage establishment shall
set forth the exact nature of the massage to be administered, and the proposed
place of business and facilities therefor.
   B.   In addition to the foregoing, any applicant for a licensee, including
any partner or limited partner of a partnership applicant, and any officer or
director of a corporate applicant and any stockholder holding more than ten
percent (10%) of the stock of a corporate applicant, shall furnish the
following information:
      1.   Name and address.
      2.   Written proof that the individual is at least twenty one (21) years
of age.
      3.   All residential addresses for the past three (3) years.
      4.   The applicant's height, weight, color of eyes and hair.
      5.   The business, occupation, or employment of the applicant for the
three (3) years immediately preceding the date of application.
      6.   The massage or similar business license history of the applicant;
whether such person, in previously operating in this or another city or state
under license, has had such license revoked or suspended, the reason therefor,
and the business activity or occupation subsequent to such action of suspension
or relocation.
      7.   All criminal or city ordinance violation convictions, in circuit
court or by administrative proceedings, forfeiture of bond and pleadings of
nolo contendere on all charges, except minor traffic violations.
      8.   The fingerprints and photograph of the applicant.
      9.   If the applicant is a corporation, or a partner of a partnership is
a corporation, the name of the corporation shall be set forth exactly as shown
in its articles of incorporation.
      10.   The applicant's tax identification number.
      11.   A statement as to whether the funding source for opening the
establishment is the applicant, a state or federally regulated financial
institution or some other person or entity. If the funding source is other than
the applicant or a state or federally regulated financial institution, the name
and address of the funding source shall be supplied.
   C.   The application for a license to operate a massage establishment shall
state the name(s) of the individual(s) who will be the establishment's
certified massage therapist(s) as required by subsection
4-13-9M of this chapter. Said application shall be accompanied by a copy of the
diploma issued to any such certified massage therapist. In addition, a
certified copy of the academic transcript of any such certified massage
therapist shall be forwarded to the police department directly from the
educational institution issuing said certified massage therapist's diploma. The
list of the individuals so certified will be updated and sent to the director
on a quarterly basis. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-13-6: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Upon receipt of the recommendation of the departments referred to in
section
4-13-3 of this chapter, and the certificate of the health officer that the
establishment is in compliance with all the requirements of section
4-13-9 of this chapter, the city manager shall issue a license to maintain a
massage establishment, unless he finds:
      1.   That the operation, as proposed by the applicant, if permitted,
would not have complied with all applicable laws, including, but not limited
to, all zoning, building, fire, and health codes and any other applicable
ordinances and regulations; or
      2.   That the applicant or any other person who will be directly or
indirectly engaged in the management or operation of a massage establishment
has been convicted of, pled guilty to, or been found guilty by a court of law
of a felony, an offense involving sexual misconduct with children,
prostitution, soliciting for a prostitute, pandering, keeping a place of
prostitution, pimping or other offense opposed to decency and morality;
      3.   That the applicant or any other person who will be directly or
indirectly engaged in the management or operation of a massage establishment
has been found to have violated any provisions of this chapter or of section 6-
2-4-2 of this code.
   B.   Every massage establishment license issued pursuant to this chapter
will terminate at the expiration of the calendar year, unless sooner suspended
or revoked. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-13-7: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Any license issued for a massage establishment may be revoked or
suspended by the city manager after a hearing for good cause or in any case
where any of the provisions of this chapter are violated or any employee of the
licensee, including a massage therapist, is engaged in any conduct at
licensee's place of business which violates any of the provisions of this
chapter or any state law which provides for imprisonment, and licensee has
actual or constructive knowledge of such violations or the licensee should have
actual or constructive knowledge by due diligence, or where any applicant has
made a false statement on an application for a license under this chapter or in
any case where the licensee refuses to permit any duly authorized police
officer or health inspector of the city to inspect the premises or the
operations therein. Such license may also be revoked or suspended by the city
manager, after hearing upon the recommendations of the health officer that such
business is being managed, conducted or maintained without regard for the
public health or health of patrons or customers or without due regard to proper
sanitation or hygiene.
   B.   Any violation of this chapter by any employee of the licensee including
a massage therapist, shall be cause for suspension of the license for not more
than thirty (30) days in the first instance. Any subsequent violation of this
chapter by any employee of the licensee, including the massage therapist, shall
be cause for suspension or revocation of the license.
   C.   The city manager, before revoking or suspending any license, shall
provide the licensee with hearing and notice in the manner set forth in section
4-2-11 of this title. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-13-8: FACILITY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No massage establishment shall be issued a license, nor be operated,
established or maintained in the city unless an inspection by the health
officer reveals that the establishment complies with each of the following
minimum requirements:
      1.   Construction of rooms used for toilets, tubs, steam baths and
showers shall be made waterproof with approved waterproof materials and shall
be installed in accordance with the building code of the city 1
;
      2.   All massage tables, bathtubs, shower stalls, steam or bath areas,
and floors shall have surfaces which may be readily disinfected;
      3.   Adequate bathing, dressing and locker facilities shall be provided
for the patrons to be served at any given time. In the event male and female
patrons are to be served simultaneously, separate bathing, dressing, locker and
massage room facilities shall be provided;
      4.   The premises shall have adequate equipment for disinfecting and
sterilizing nondisposable instruments and materials used in administering
massages. Such nondisposable instruments and materials shall be disinfected
after use on each patron;
      5.   Closed cabinets shall be provided and used for the storage of clean
linen, towels and other materials used in connection with administering
massages. All soiled linens, towels and other materials shall be kept in
properly covered containers or cabinets, which containers or cabinets shall be
kept separate from the clean storage areas;
      6.   Toilet facilities shall be provided in convenient locations. When
employees and patrons of different sexes are on the premises at the same time
separate toilet facilities shall be provided for each sex. A single water
closet per sex shall be provided for each twenty (20) or more employees or
patrons of that sex on the premises at any one time. Urinals may be substituted
for water closets after one water closet has been provided. Toilets shall be
designated as to the sex accommodated therein;
      7.   Lavatories or washbasins provided with both hot and cold running
water shall be installed in either the toilet room or a vestibule. Lavatories
or washbasins shall be provided with soap and a dispenser and with sanitary
towels;
      8.   The premises shall be equipped with a service sink for custodial
services;
      9.   A hand washbasin shall be provided in each room designated for
massages;
      10.   A separate dressing room for each sex must be available on the
premises with individual lockers for each employee. Doors to such dressing
rooms shall open inward and shall be self-closing;
      11.   The establishment licensee, as a condition of its license, consents
to walk through inspections by city employees, without notice, at any time
during business hours.
   B.   The sanitarian shall certify that the proposed massage establishment
complies with all the requirements of this section and shall send such
certification to the director of community and economic development. (Ord. M-
19-13, 10-7-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. See
  title 10, chapter 1 of this code.
4-13-9: OPERATING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Every portion of the massage establishment, including appliances and
apparatus, shall be kept clean and operated in a sanitary condition.
   B.   Price rates for all services shall be prominently posted in the
reception area and in each massage room in a location available to all
prospective customers. Such posting shall include a statement, in bold print,
not less than two inches (2") high, as follows:
Pursuant to the city code of Des Plaines: The genital areas of all customers
shall be covered at all times when in the presence of an employee. No employee
shall touch or fondle in any manner or massage the sexual or genital area of
any person. Any person or customer violating the city code shall be subject to
prosecution for the violation of the city code.
   C.   All employees, including massage therapist, shall be clean and wear
clean, nontransparent outer garments, covering the sexual and genital areas,
whose use is restricted to the massage establishment. A separate dressing room
for each sex must be available on the premises with individual lockers for each
employee. Doors to such dressing rooms shall open inward and shall be self-
closing.
   D.   All massage establishments shall be provided with clean, laundered
sheets and towels in sufficient quantity and shall be laundered after each use
thereof and stored in a sanitary manner.
   E.   The sexual or genital area of patrons must be covered by towels or
cloths and undergarments when in the presence of an employee or massage
therapist.
   F.   It shall be unlawful for any person, knowingly, in a massage
establishment, to place his hand upon, to touch with any part of his body, to
fondle in any manner or to massage, a sexual or genital area of any other
person.
   G.   No massage therapist, employee or operator shall perform, offer or
agree to perform, any act which would require the touching of the patron's
genital area.
   H.   All walls, ceilings, floors, pools, showers, bathtubs, steam rooms and
all other physical facilities shall be in good repair and maintained in a clean
and sanitary condition. Wet and dry heat rooms, steam or vapor rooms, or steam
or vapor cabinets, shower compartments and toilet rooms shall be thoroughly
cleaned each day the business is in operation. Bathtubs and showers shall be
thoroughly cleaned after each use. When carpeting is used on the floors, it
shall be kept dry.
   I.   Oils, creams, lotions or other preparations used in administering
massages shall be kept in clean, closed containers or cabinets.
   J.   Eating in the massage work areas shall not be permitted. Animals,
except for seeing eye dogs, shall not be permitted in the massage work areas.
   K.   No massage therapist shall administer a massage to a patron exhibiting
any skin fungus, skin infection, skin inflammation or skin eruption; unless a
physician duly licensed by the state certifies in writing that such person may
be safely massaged, prescribing the conditions thereof.
   L.   Each massage therapist shall wash his hands in hot running water, using
a proper soap or disinfectant before and after administering a massage to each
patron.
   M.   Each massage therapist shall be a "certified massage therapist" as
defined in section
4-13-1 of this chapter.
   N.   The hours of operation for massage establishments shall be limited to
between six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
   O.   Every massage establishment shall have a manager on duty on the
premises, during all hours of operation, who shall be familiar with and
responsible for compliance with all of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. M-
19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-13-10: OUTCALL REGISTRATION AND SERVICE:
Any massage therapist who provides any of the services listed in section
4-13-1 of this chapter at any hotel or motel must first register his name and
permit number with the owner, manager or person in charge of the hotel or motel
and provide a copy of their Illinois license which shall be retained by the
manager in the business records of the hotel or motel. No outcall massage
service may be operated other than by a licensed massage therapist. All
massages performed by an outcall massage service must be performed in the
manner prescribed in section
4-13-9 of this chapter. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-13-11: INSPECTION OF ESTABLISHMENT:
The health officer shall from time to time, and at least twice a year, make an
inspection of each massage establishment granted a permit under the provisions
of this chapter for the purpose of determining that the provisions of this
chapter are complied with. Such inspections shall be made at reasonable times
and in a reasonable manner. It shall be unlawful, and a violation of conditions
of license and subsection
4-13-8A11 of this chapter, for any licensee to fail to allow such inspection
officer access to the premises or to hinder such officer in any manner. (Ord.
M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-13-12: EMPLOYMENT AGE RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any owner, proprietor, manager or other person in
charge of any massage establishment to employ any person who is not at least
twenty one (21) years of age. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-13-13: DISPLAY AND TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
Every licensee shall display a valid license in a conspicuous place within the
massage establishment so that the same may be readily seen by persons entering
the premises. No license for the operation of a massage establishment issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be transferable. Upon the
death or incapacity of the licensee, the massage establishment may continue in
business for a reasonable period of time, not to exceed thirty (30) days, to
allow for an orderly transfer of the license. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-13-14: EXEMPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to hospitals, nursing homes, sanatoriums, or
persons holding an unrevoked certificate to practice the healing arts under the
laws of the state or persons working under the direction of any such persons or
in any such establishments; nor shall this chapter apply to barbers or
cosmetologists lawfully carrying out their particular profession or business
and holding a valid, unrevoked license or certificate or registration issued by
the state. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-13-15: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Any building used as a massage establishment in violation of this chapter with
the intentional knowing, reckless or negligent permission of the owner thereof,
or the agent of the owner managing the building, together with all fixtures and
other property used in violation of this chapter are hereby declared to be a
nuisance. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-13-16: PENALTY:
Every person except those persons who are specifically exempted by this
chapter, whether acting as an individual, owner, employee of the owner,
operator or employee of the operator, or whether acting as a mere helper for
the owner, employee or operator, or acting as a participant or worker in any
way, who gives massages or conducts a massage establishment without first
obtaining a license and paying a license fee to do so from the city, or shall
violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
Upon conviction, such person shall be punished by a fine as set out in the
general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
CHAPTER 14
PUBLIC PASSENGER VEHICLES
SECTION:
4-14-1: Chauffeurs
4-14-2: Taxicab Company Licenses
4-14-3: Taxicab Vehicle Licenses
4-14-4: Public Passenger Vehicle Inspections
4-14-5: Insurance Requirements
4-14-6: Name And Number Of Vehicle
4-14-7: Taxicab Fares
4-14-8: Senior/Disabled Citizen Subsidized Taxicab Rate Program
4-14-9: Conditions Of License
4-14-10: Use Of Streets
4-14-11: Prohibited Acts
4-14-12: Revocation Of License
4-14-13: Penalty
4-14-1: CHAUFFEURS:
   A.   License Requirements:
      1.   License Required: No person shall drive, operate or control, while
in use for hire on the streets of the city, any public taxi or vehicle for hire
for carrying passengers in the city until he shall satisfy the chief of police,
or his designee, that he is a person of sufficient age and discretion, of good
character and integrity, and not addicted to the use of intoxicating liquors or
narcotics, and shall have received a chauffeur's license as in this section
required. The owner of the taxi or vehicle shall not place in charge of the
taxi or vehicle any person not having such license.
      2.   Application: Any person desiring to secure a license as driver of a
vehicle for carrying passengers for hire shall make application in writing to
the licensing division, the application to set forth the name of the applicant,
his residence and certification to having ever been convicted of, pled guilty
to, pled nolo contendere, or been found guilty by a court of law of a felony or
an offense involving violence or moral turpitude.
      3.   Investigation: No license shall be issued to any applicant who does
not comply with the applicable requirements of this code. The chief of police,
or his designee, shall indicate on the application for a license the results of
his investigation, and his recommendation to approve or deny the application.
Upon receipt of the application, the chief of police, or his designee, shall
make a careful and diligent inquiry as to the character and record of the
applicant for honesty, sobriety and capability, and if it be found that the
applicant is lacking in any of these respects, the license shall be refused.
   B.   Fee: All applicants for a chauffeurs' license shall pay the fee set
forth in section
4-18-1 of this title.
   C.   Requirements:
      1.   Age: No public vehicle driver's license shall be issued to any
person under eighteen (18) years of age.
      2.   Identification Card: Every person licensed under the provisions of
this section shall at all times, while acting as driver or operator of any
public vehicle, display a public vehicle driver's license in a conspicuous
place in the vehicle, which shall have inscribed thereon "Des Plaines,
Illinois, Public Vehicle Driver", the year for which the license is issued and
a number corresponding to the number of the license issued to the driver. The
city shall furnish the identification card.
      3.   Transfer Of License: No license issued under the provisions of this
section shall be transferred to another person.
   D.   Regulations: No driver of any taxi or vehicle used for carrying
passengers shall:
      1.   Use any vulgar or profane language while in charge of the taxi or
vehicle;
      2.   Leave his taxi while operating the same upon any of the streets or
alleys of the city;
      3.   Carry or permit to ride in his taxi or vehicle any person except a
bona fide passenger;
      4.   Permit any loitering in his taxi or vehicle while the same is being
held out for public hire upon the streets of the city; or
      5.   Smoke or allow patrons to smoke in the vehicle.
   E.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
fined as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. M-19-
13, 10-7-2013)
4-14-2: TAXICAB COMPANY LICENSES:
   A.   License Required: A taxicab company must obtain a taxicab company
license prior to operating any taxicab vehicles or leasing any taxicab vehicles
in the city of Des Plaines. No person shall engage in the business of a taxicab
or cab operator or operating a public passenger metered vehicle for hire within
the corporate limits of the city, except in compliance with the provisions of
this code. No license will be issued to an individual taxicab unless that
taxicab is leased to, or owned by, a taxicab company currently licensed under
this chapter. It shall be unlawful for a person to operate a public passenger
metered vehicle unless such person has applied for and obtained a license from
the city as provided in this code. A taxicab company license shall be valid for
the term of one year beginning July 1 and ending June 30. A condition of
license shall be that all licensees participate in the senior citizen and
disabled citizen taxicab rate program as set forth in section
4-14-8 of this chapter. The taxicab license fee shall be set forth in section
4-18-1 of this title.
   B.   Application: An applicant for taxicab company license shall submit an
application, under oath, stating:
      1.   Applicant's name and residential address as on file with the
Illinois secretary of state.
      2.   Applicant's date of birth and valid driver's license number.
      3.   Whether the applicant or any of the company officers have ever been
convicted of, pled guilty to, pled nolo contendere, or been found guilty by a
court of law of a felony or an offense involving violence or moral turpitude.
      4.   The address of applicant's business.
      5.   The applicant will not violate any of the provisions of this code or
the laws of the state or the United States in the conduct of his place of
business.
      6.   A certificate of insurance showing coverage in section
4-14-5 of this chapter must accompany the license application.
      7.   No license shall be issued to any applicant who does not comply with
the applicable requirements of this code. The chief of police, or his designee,
shall indicate on the application for a license the results of his
investigation, and his approval or disapproval of said application. In addition
to any other fees assessed in this chapter, a fee set forth in section
4-18-1 of this title per person shall be paid by the applicant to cover the
cost of said administrative costs including fingerprint processing.
      8.   In the case of partnership or a limited liability corporation, the
names and residence addresses of all partners. In the case of a corporation,
the names and residence addresses of all majority owners and officers and a
copy of the articles of incorporation. All partnerships and corporations are
required to submit documentation supporting registration of all assumed names,
"doing business as".
   C.   Issuance Of License: When the terms and provisions of this chapter have
been complied with, a license shall be granted and issued in the same manner as
generally prescribed in chapter 2 of this title for the issuance of licenses,
except that for the first year, the license shall be a probationary license.
Said license shall be reviewed at the end of the first year of issuance to
determine if the licensee has complied with this chapter, and all other
ordinances of the city of Des Plaines. Said probationary license is subject to
nonrenewal at the end of the first year, or revocation at any time during the
year of probation if the chief of police determines that the licensee has
violated one or more ordinances of the city of Des Plaines and that the
violation or violations adversely affect the public health, safety and welfare
of the citizens of Des Plaines. Any person whose license is revoked, suspended,
or not renewed may, within ten (10) days of the date of the notice of the
adverse action, appeal the action by filing an appeal, in writing, with the
office of the city attorney. Thereafter, an appeal will be set for hearing
pursuant to the provisions of section
1-16-17 of this code before the administrative hearing officer. Based upon the
record of such hearing, the administrative hearing officer shall make a finding
and shall sustain, modify or rescind any official notice or order considered in
the hearing. A written report of the hearing decision shall be furnished by the
legal department to the person whose license was revoked or suspended. No
license shall be granted to any person under eighteen (18) years of age. The
chief of police, or his designee, may grant licenses for the replacement of one
taxicab by another by the same owner or licensee by remitting current physical
inspection sticker and individual taxicab vehicle sticker. The replacement
vehicle must comply with all provisions of this code.
   D.   License Register: It shall be the duty of the chief of police, or his
designee, to keep a register of the names of persons to whom licenses are
granted, the dates when issued, the numbers of the licenses and the
descriptions of the vehicles licensed.
   E.   Number Of Vehicle Licenses: The number of public conveyance vehicle
licenses to be issued to each company by the city, under this chapter, shall be
no less than ten (10) and not exceed fifty five (55). The number of total
public passenger vehicle licenses to be issued by the city shall not exceed two
hundred seventy five (275). (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-14-3: TAXICAB VEHICLE LICENSES:
   A.   License Required: No person shall engage in the business of a taxicab,
hack or cab operator or operating a public passenger metered vehicle for hire
within the corporate limits of the city, except in compliance with the
provisions of this code. No license will be issued to an individual taxicab
unless that taxicab is leased to, or owned by, a taxicab company currently
licensed under this chapter. It shall be unlawful for a person to operate a
public passenger metered vehicle for hire unless such person has applied for
and obtained a license from the city as provided in this code. A taxicab
vehicle license shall be valid for the term of one year, beginning July 1 and
ending June 30. The taxicab license fee shall be set forth in section
4-18-1 of this title.
   B.   Application: An applicant for license shall submit an application,
under oath, stating:
      1.   Applicant's name and residential address as on file with the
Illinois secretary of state.
      2.   Applicant's date of birth and valid driver's license number.
      3.   Whether the applicant, manager, on site supervisor, and individual
taxicab drivers have ever been convicted of, pled guilty to, or been found
guilty by a court of law of a felony or an offense involving violence or moral
turpitude.
      4.   The address of applicant's business. In the case of an individual
taxicab owner, the address of the taxicab company it is leased to with a copy
of the lease with the franchise.
      5.   The applicant will not violate any of the provisions of this code or
the laws of the state of Illinois or the United States in the conduct of his
place of business.
      6.   A certificate of insurance showing coverage in section
4-14-5 of this chapter must accompany the license application.
      7.   No license shall be issued to any applicant who does not comply with
the applicable requirements of this code. The chief of police, or his designee,
shall indicate on the application for a license the results of his
investigation, and his approval or disapproval of said application. In addition
to any other fees assessed in this chapter, a fee set forth in section
4-18-1 of this title per person shall be paid by the applicant to cover the
cost of said fingerprint processing.
   C.   Issuance Of Taxicab License: When the terms and provisions of this
chapter have been complied with, a license shall be granted by the chief of
police, or his designee, to be issued in the same manner as generally
prescribed in chapter 2 of this title for the issuance of licenses, except that
for the first year, the license shall be a probationary license. Said license
shall be reviewed at the end of the first year of issuance to determine if the
licensee has complied with this chapter and all other ordinances of the city of
Des Plaines. Said probationary license is subject to nonrenewal at the end of
the first year, or revocation at any time during the year of probation if the
chief of police, or his designee, determines that the licensee has violated one
or more ordinances of the city of Des Plaines and that the violation or
violations adversely affect the public health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of Des Plaines. Any person whose license is revoked, suspended, or not
renewed may, within ten (10) days of the date of the notice of the adverse
action, appeal the action by filing an appeal, in writing, with the office of
the city attorney. Thereafter, an appeal will be set for hearing pursuant to
the provisions of section
1-16-17 of this code before the administrative hearing officer. Based upon the
record of such hearing, the administrative hearing officer shall make a finding
and shall sustain, modify or rescind any official notice or order considered in
the hearing. A written report of the hearing decision shall be furnished by the
legal department to the person whose license was revoked, suspended or not
renewed. No license shall be granted to any person under eighteen (18) years of
age. The chief of police, or his designee, may grant licenses for the
replacement of one taxicab by another by the same owner or licensee by
remitting current mechanical/physical inspection sticker and individual taxicab
vehicle sticker. The replacement vehicle must comply with all provisions of
this code.
   D.   License Register: It shall be the duty of the chief of police, or his
designee, to keep a register of the names of persons to whom licenses are
granted, the dates when issued, the numbers of the licenses and the
descriptions of the vehicles licensed.
   E.   Number Of Vehicle Licenses: The number of public conveyance vehicle
licenses to be issued to each company by the city under this chapter shall be
no less than ten (10) and not exceed fifty five (55). The combined total of all
taxicab company vehicle licenses shall not exceed two hundred seventy five
(275). (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-14-4: PUBLIC PASSENGER VEHICLE INSPECTIONS:
No public passenger vehicle shall be licensed until it has been thoroughly and
carefully inspected pursuant to this chapter, and found to be in safe condition
for the transportation of passengers; clean, fit, of good appearance, well
painted and complying with the provisions of this chapter.
The chief of police, or his designee, will cause inspection of all licensed
public passenger vehicles to be done on the following basis:
   A.   Mechanical And Physical Tests:
      1.   Mechanical and physical tests shall be made every six (6) months.
Each testing station shall submit a report or certificate to the police chief,
or his designee, and to the public passenger vehicle owner, with respect to the
results of such tests. Upon passing of mechanical and physical testing, the
testing station will apply a six (6) month sticker to lower driver's side
windshield. The police chief, or his designee, shall establish standards for
companies to qualify to administrate the mechanical and physical tests required
herein. The police chief, or his designee, shall report annually by December 1
of each year to the city manager listing the standards, specifying the
companies who have been reviewed under the program and indicating, for each,
whether or not they were found to be qualified to administer the required tests
under this section.
      2.   Such tests shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
Accelerator/brake pedal: Rubber pads in place.
Backup lights: Lights are present and functional.
Ball joints: No perceptible movement (unless otherwise specified in service
information), free motion without noise.
Body damage: No dents, rust, mismatched paint, loose panels, missing components
or shoddy repair work allowed. Paint chips larger than one-eighth inch (1/8")
must be repaired. Broken/cracked light lenses must be replaced/repaired.
Brake lights: Lights present and functional including CHMSL (center high mount
stop lamp).
Brakes (front): Pad friction material not less than three-thirty seconds (3/32)
of an inch at thinnest point. No serious visible rust problems with rotors or
calipers. No visible hydraulic system leaks or damage to brake lines and hoses.
Overall wear is even side to side.
Brakes (rear): Pad or shoe friction material not less than three-thirty seconds
(3/32) of an inch at thinnest point. No serious visible rust problems with
drums or rotors. Drum brake hardware in serviceable condition. No visible
hydraulic system leaks or damage to brake lines or hoses. Overall wear is even
side to side.
Bumper: No heavy scuffing on painted surfaces.
Current month insurance sticker: Present on window.
Display rates and chauffeur license: Displayed in vehicle (visible from back
seat).
Doors and latches: All door latches must be operational from inside or outside
of vehicle. Door lock must be functional. Door hinges intact (no drooping doors
when opened).
Emergency brake: Operational and able to hold vehicle.
Exhaust system: Properly suspended and free from leaks or excess noise.
Frame and axles: No obvious missing or damaged frame mounts or bushing that
would compromise safety. Axles must be properly attached to vehicle. No
structural rust damage.
Front/rear floors: Floor area must be clear and unobstructed with carpeting
intact and no holes in floorboards.
Gauges, all: Operational and no illuminated warning indicators for emission
control, antilock brake, traction control or supplemental restraint systems.
Hazard lights: Present and functional.
Headlights/brights: Present and functional with proper aiming.
Heat/air conditioning: HVAC system must be functional for adequate passenger
comfort.
Horn and defroster: Present and functional.
ID markings: The identification number assigned to the taxicab by the company
shall be affixed to the exterior of the vehicle on each front quarter panel and
trunk, visible from the rear at street level. These letters must be a minimum
of two inches (2") in height and one- fourth inch (1/4") brushstroke.
Interior appearance: Must be clean and free of debris or objectionable odors.
No torn headliners, broken or severely damaged armrests. Matching seat covers
if being used.
Linkages and seals: No serious fluid leaks should be present. Driver operated
linkages such as gearshift mechanisms or parking brake mechanism must operate
properly.
Meter: Proof of current calibration.
Mirrors: Interior and exterior mirrors must be present and in functioning
condition, properly attached and not cracked.
Plate light: Present and functional.
Safety belts/air bags: All seat belts must be present and functional without
visible tears or damage. Air bag covers must be intact and no warning lights
illuminated.
Seats: Clean and clear of objects. Covers intact and cushioning in reasonable
condition with no obvious tears or springs visible.
Shock absorbers: Front and rear suspension shock absorbers should be
serviceable with no hydraulic fluid leaks and all mounting hardware in
operational condition. Mountings that are loose or damaged must be repaired.
Spare tire: Present, correct size rim, properly inflated, and operational
tread.
Springs: Serviceable, no cracked or broken springs.
Steering mechanism: Components such as linkage and steering gears must be
functional. No perceptible play in steering components such as inner and outer
tie rods or idler arms. Hydraulic components must be properly sealed, no
excessive leakage or noise while operating. Drive belts that operate steering
pumps must be in good service condition.
Taillights: Present and functional.
Taximeter: Present and functional, sealed to prevent tampering.
Tires: Safe operating condition. Wear bars that are even with tread require
replacement. Any safety related defects such as bubbles, bulges, shifted belts,
cuts or heavy dry rot are not permissible.
Trunk and hood: Trunk lid and hood operational (trunk lid will stay upright on
its own).
Turn signals, front and rear: Present and functional.
Vehicle registration card: In vehicle at all times for VIN confirmation.
Wheel alignment: Vehicle must not exhibit any obvious wheel alignment problems
such as pulling when driven or severe tire wear issues.
Wheel bearings: Must have minimal to no play and should not produce excessive
noise when vehicle is in motion.
Wheels: Must be in serviceable condition and wheel covers must be present and
match if vehicle has steel wheels. Aluminum rims must match.
Window operation: Windows must be clear and unobstructed. Nonstationary windows
must operate through full motion intended.
Windows: Cracked or damaged glass must be replaced. Window trim must be intact.
Wipers and washers: Windshield wipers must be functional and in serviceable
condition. Washer systems must operate properly.
Safety: Any problems which may impact vehicle safety as determined by the
inspector that are not listed in the previous items may be noted on inspection
form and can be cause for inspection failure. The vehicle will be ineligible
for service until the problem is corrected.
      3.   The total cost of the initial mechanical and physical test shall not
exceed the amount set forth in section
4-18-1 of this title and be paid for by the owner of the public passenger
vehicle involved. Any mechanical repair or retest needed to pass the vehicle
shall be the sole responsibility of the owner.
   B.   Failure To Pass Inspection:
      1.   Any public passenger vehicle failing to pass either the mechanical
or the physical inspection will be given a period of five (5) working days to
allow for repairs. The vehicle cannot be used as a public passenger vehicle for
hire until repairs have been completed and it passes reinspection. If the
public passenger vehicle does not pass reinspection within the five (5) working
day period, the public passenger vehicle license will be suspended by direction
of the chief of police.
      2.   There shall be a charge for a reinspection within the five (5)
working days allowed for repairs to a vehicle that fails the inspection in the
amount set forth in section
4-18-1 of this title.
   C.   Maintenance Of Vehicles:
      1.   All vehicles licensed under this chapter must be kept in safe, clean
and sanitary condition, and must be equipped with properly working brakes,
lights and warning signals, in accordance with the motor vehicle laws of this
state, this chapter and the ordinances of the city.
      2.   If, after the inspection and approval of any public passenger
vehicle, as provided for in this chapter, such public passenger vehicle shall,
from any cause, become unclean or unsightly in appearance, the license of such
public passenger vehicle shall be suspended by the chief of police until the
public passenger vehicle and all its accessories shall be put in fit condition
for public use and have been approved and inspected as provided in this
chapter.
      3.   If at any time a public passenger vehicle appears to not be in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter, it may be inspected by any
police officer or community service officer. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-14-5: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No person shall conduct the business of hackman, cabman, or of
operating a public passenger vehicle for hire unless the person shall insure
each vehicle to be operated as a public passenger vehicle in compliance with
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-109 of the Illinois motor vehicle code.
   B.   Each person conducting the business of hackman, cabman, or of operating
a public passenger vehicle for hire within the city shall, at all times, carry
current proof of insurance. Failure to present the proper insurance certificate
shall constitute a violation of this chapter and shall be grounds for immediate
revocation of the license issued for the operation of public passenger vehicles
within the city. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-14-6: NAME AND NUMBER OF VEHICLE:
   A.   Each vehicle licensed as aforesaid shall bear, on the outside thereof,
in a conspicuous place, the name of the owner thereof in letters not less than
two inches (2") in height, properly proportioned and legible. Every vehicle
shall, in addition to the name, bear a number on the outside thereof in a
conspicuous place.
   B.   The identification number assigned to the taxicab by the company shall
be affixed to the exterior of the vehicle on each front quarter panel and
trunk, visible from the rear at street level. These letters must be a minimum
of two inches (2") in height and one-fourth inch (1/4") brushstroke.
   C.   Each vehicle must post, on the lower driver's side front windshield, a
city of Des Plaines annual taxi vehicle license sticker, and six (6) month
mechanical/physical inspection sticker, provided by the city which will clearly
identify the vehicle as operating under a license issued by Des Plaines which
authorizes pick up of patrons in Des Plaines. Pick up of patrons in Des Plaines
without being licensed by the city is a violation of this chapter and is
subject to a fine as provided in the general penalty section of 1-4-1 of this
code. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-14-7: TAXICAB FARES:
   A.   Rates:
      1.   Each cab company authorized to operate within the city shall give to
the chief of police, or his designee, in writing, thirty (30) days prior to
change in fare, an updated schedule of fare changes. This schedule of fare
changes shall also be published in a newspaper of general circulation.
      2.   No meter or other measuring device shall be activated or the
mechanism thereof started until all patrons have entered the vehicle. All rates
of fare shall be posted in such manner as to be visible from the rear seat of
the vehicle.
      3.   A schedule shall also be posted showing the rates of fare for out of
town destinations.
      4.   A schedule shall also be posted showing the rates of fare for out of
town destinations where the additional twenty percent (20%) charge over that
shown on the meter is applicable.
   B.   Disputes Over Fare; Receipt:
      1.   All disputes as to prices or distances shall be reviewed by the
chief of police or his designee for that purpose.
      2.   Upon request of any passenger, the driver of the vehicle shall give
the persons so requesting a receipt for the amount of fare demanded and paid.
   C.   Penalty For Overcharge: The owner or driver of any vehicle, licensed as
aforesaid, who may have demanded and received any fare in excess of what is
provided in this chapter, shall return the excess received and, in addition, be
liable to a penalty of twenty five dollars ($25.00) and to the revocation of
his chauffeur's license. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-14-8: SENIOR/DISABLED CITIZEN SUBSIDIZED TAXICAB RATE PROGRAM:
   A.   Definitions:
   ELIGIBLE DISABLED CITIZEN: Any person who receives supplemental security
income (SSI), social security disability (SSD), or has their physician certify
their disability whose residence is located within the corporate limits of the
city.
   PARTICIPATING TAXI SERVICE COMPANY: Any taxi service company providing taxi
service within the city that executed an agreement with the city by which,
under certain conditions, the city shall subsidize cab fares for senior
citizens and eligible disabled citizens.
   SENIOR CITIZEN: Any person of sixty five (65) or more years whose residence
is located within the corporate limits of the city.
   SENIOR CITIZEN/DISABLED CITIZEN LIST: A list compiled by participating taxi
services of senior citizens and eligible disabled citizens gathered by securing
the signature of each senior citizen or disabled citizen each time such citizen
employs a taxicab to secure the reduced rate provided for senior citizens and
disabled citizens by the taxi service program for senior citizens and disabled
citizens.
   TRIP: Only those excursions the routes of which begin or end within the
corporate boundaries of the city.
   B.   Application For Senior Citizen/Disabled Citizen Voucher Program: An
application for voucher issued by the city or its agents containing the
following information:
      1.   The applicant's residence.
      2.   The applicant's signature.
      3.   A statement that the voucher is nontransferable.
      4.   A statement that the above named disabled citizen has shown proof of
receiving SSI, SSD, or has their physician certify their disability; has shown
proof of being a resident of the city and is hereby entitled to all privileges
specified of the taxi service program for senior citizens and disabled
citizens.
      5.   A statement that the above named senior citizen has shown proof of
attaining age sixty five (65), has shown proof of being a resident of the city
and is hereby entitled to all privileges specified by the taxi service program
for senior citizens and disabled citizens.
   C.   Creation Of Program: The city does hereby establish a taxi service
program for senior citizens and eligible disabled citizens. Pursuant to this
program, the city shall be authorized to enter into subsidy agreements with
participating taxi services. Among other provisions, these agreements shall
provide that upon presentation by a senior citizen or a disabled citizen of a
valid senior citizen or disabled citizen voucher, and his signature on the taxi
customer list, the senior citizen or disabled citizen shall be enabled to
secure a reduced rate for trips from taxicab companies and drivers licensed by
the city of Des Plaines.
   D.   Rates Established: The agreements entered into between participating
taxi services and the city shall provide for rates as follows:
      1.   Rates to be charged to eligible disabled citizens or senior citizens
sixty five (65) years of age or older shall be as follows:
         a.   A rate shall be charged by taxicabs licensed to operate in the
city to such persons for transportation based on the fare shown on the taxicab
meter; three dollars ($3.00) shall be billed to the city and the remaining
balance due shall be paid directly by the rider.
         b.   When more than one senior citizen and/or eligible disabled
citizen is transported to the same destination, then each additional person
shall be required to pay ten cents ($0.10) in addition to the established rate.
         c.   Persons eligible for the rates set forth in this subsection D1
must apply for and obtain a voucher issued by the city. The health and human
services division of the city shall establish the standards and procedures for
the issuance of such cards.
         d.   A driver of a taxicab who fails to abide by the provisions of
this program shall be fined as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense and possibly the revocation or suspension
of his chauffeur's license.
      2.   No taxicab company shall require that a prospective passenger
identify, prior to pick up of said passenger, if he is a "senior citizen" or
disabled citizen as defined in this section.
      3.   No taxicab company, owner or operator of a taxicab shall refuse to
convey any orderly senior citizen or eligible disabled citizen holding a
voucher issued by the city.
      4.   Those taxicab company owners or drivers of taxicabs licensed by the
city shall bill the city on a regular basis for the city's share of such senior
citizen or disabled citizen subsidized taxicab rate program, provided the
following procedures have been met:
         a.   The senior citizen or disabled citizen has presented their
voucher issued by the city at the inception of the taxicab ride.
         b.   Said passenger vouchers shall be forwarded to the city for
payment on a monthly basis. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-14-9: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Stickers And License Plates:
      1.   Sticker Displayed: The chief of police, or his designee, is hereby
authorized and directed to issue a taxicab vehicle license sticker for each
public conveyance vehicle licensed under this chapter. No public passenger
vehicle shall receive patrons within the city unless this license sticker is
displayed in the vehicle on the driver's lower left corner of the front
windshield in plain view of the public.
      2.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this
subsection A shall be fined as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   B.   Driver's Identification Card, Appearance:
      1.   Each public conveyance vehicle licensed hereunder shall have a Des
Plaines chauffeur license of the operator of the public conveyance vehicle
displayed prominently in the vehicle, clearly visible from the rear seat, said
card to contain a current photo of the operator of the vehicle.
      2.   Each public passenger vehicle driver shall be well groomed, maintain
personal hygiene, be clean and orderly in hair (face and head) and dress. Such
operator will be required to wear a collared shirt with full or part sleeve,
full length pants and shoes which fully cover the driver's feet. Clothing shall
not have any visible rips or tears.
   C.   Taximeters:
      1.   Each taxicab licensed and operated under the provisions of this
chapter shall be equipped with a meter which will visibly register,
electronically or mechanically, the distance traveled by such vehicle, the time
such vehicle is in waiting and the total fare to be charged in dollars and
cents. Said taximeter shall be operated from the transmission of the taxicab to
which it is attached.
      2.   No taxicab appearing at inspection site shall be issued a city
taxicab vehicle license sticker until its taximeter is tested and certified to
be accurate and sealed. Annual certification is required in January to be
conducted at a designated location determined by the chief of police or his
designee.
      3.   No taxicab shall operate for hire in the city unless the taximeter
is accurately recording the fare to be charged.
      4.   Recertification of meter is required if any of the following changes
are made to the vehicle:
         a.   Change tire or wheel size.
         b.   Any transmission work.
         c.   Rear axle work.
         d.   Connection corrosion.
         e.   Change in rate of fare.
      5.   The taxi rates of fare operation shall be printed upon a card in
plain and legible type as designated by the chief of police. The card will be
affixed to the interior of each taxicab in a conspicuous place so that it may
be easily read by any passenger riding in the vehicle.
   D.   Refusal To Carry Passengers/Unreasonable Delay: No owner or driver of
any vehicle, licensed under this chapter, shall unreasonably delay any person
or refuse to convey in this city any person with or without baggage when
applied to for that purpose; or, having undertaken to convey the person, shall
fail or neglect to do so, under a penalty not to exceed the general penalty in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-14-10: USE OF STREETS:
   A.   Cab Stands:
      1.   No vehicle of any kind shall stand upon, be parked upon, or make use
of any public taxi or hack stand in this city unless the owner thereof has
obtained a license as provided herein, and the driver thereof has a chauffeur's
license as provided for in section
4-14-1 of this chapter. Any person violating this subsection A1 shall be
subject to a fine as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each time a
violation occurs.
      2.   Taxicabs entering a cab stand or line shall take the rear position.
Overcrowding cab stands or lines is prohibited.
While taxicabs occupy designated cab stands, no other taxicab shall bypass the
cab line and accept passengers for service.
      3.   The first taxicab in line shall be eligible for the first available
fare unless a passenger indicates a preference for another cab in that line.
      4.   Livery vehicles shall not park in taxicab stands.
      5.   Hotels and motels of more than twenty five (25) rooms shall be
required to establish taxicab stands and pick up service for customers of the
hotel or motel and shall only be from or by vehicles licensed by the city.
Hotel and motel operators shall be responsible to see that pick up of patrons
shall only be by vehicles licensed by the city to pick up passengers from Des
Plaines locations.
      6.   It shall be unlawful for any hotel or motel to allow any person to
operate an unlicensed public passenger vehicle for hire on its property. Any
hotel or motel violating this subsection shall be fined as provided in the
general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed each day a violation occurs.
      7.   It shall be unlawful for any hotel or motel employee to arrange for
or allow an unlicensed public passenger vehicle for hire to operate on hotel or
motel property, or to allow taxicabs to accept passengers for service in
violation of subsections A2 and A3 of this section. Any hotel or motel employee
violating this subsection shall be fined as provided in the general penalty in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense.
   B.   Parking On Streets:
      1.   No person in charge of any public taxi or vehicle carrying
passengers for hire shall permit the same, except when receiving or discharging
passengers or when instructed by their passengers so to do, to stand on any of
the streets, avenues or alleys in this city for any longer than five (5)
minutes, except as otherwise herein provided.
      2.   No vehicles, licensed as aforesaid, shall be permitted to use any of
the public streets of the city as a station or stand for the carrying on of
business; provided, however, that the motor vehicle or other vehicles may be
stationed on the private driveways of any railroad company in a suitable manner
so as not to impede or block traffic for a period of ten (10) minutes before
and five (5) minutes after the arrival of passenger trains at the depot of the
railway company; and provided further, that interurban autobuses may be parked
at reasonable places designated by the mayor and city council, so as not to
impede or block traffic for a period not exceeding fifteen (15) minutes, to
receive and discharge passengers.
      3.   Licensed taxicab companies shall provide the city with a list of
vehicles in their fleet and show plans for overnight parking in an off street
lot or private garage. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-14-11: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Smoking: Smoking is not allowed in any public passenger vehicle (driver
or patron).
   B.   Soliciting Trade: It shall be unlawful for the owner or driver of any
such vehicle to solicit by word, gesture or otherwise, the patronage of any
person, at any railroad station, or upon any public street in the city, and it
shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to stand or be upon the
platform of any railway station in the city while any train shall be
approaching the station, and until the expiration of three (3) minutes after
the departure of the train, except to assist persons who have indicated a
desire of patronizing the vehicle in his charge.
   C.   Unlawful For Person To Sit In Front Seat: It shall be unlawful for any
person not the driver or operator of a public passenger vehicle to sit in the
front seat of the vehicle, with or without the presence of the driver or
operator while any vehicle is parked at any designated cab stand. It shall be
unlawful for any person not the owner or operator of a public passenger vehicle
to ride in the front seat of the vehicle, except a passenger for hire, while in
or during the course of transporting a passenger to a designated destination.
   D.   Unlawful For Operator To Permit Person In Front Seat: It shall be
unlawful for any owner or operator of any public passenger vehicle to permit
any person, a passenger for hire excepted, to sit in the front seat while at a
cab stand or to ride in the front seat with the driver while a passenger for
hire is being transported.
   E.   Parking On Private Property: It shall be unlawful for any owner or
operator of any public passenger vehicle to stand or park on private property
unless the owner or operator is actively loading or discharging a passenger.
Under no circumstances shall the owner or operator of a public passenger
vehicle stand or park on privately owned property in excess of ten (10)
minutes.
   F.   Parking In Drive-Up Facilities: It shall be unlawful for any owner or
operator of any public passenger vehicle to stand or park in a parking lot
which is located on the same premises as a restaurant with drive-up facilities
for a period longer than fifteen (15) minutes.
   G.   Parking At Grocery Stores: It shall be unlawful for any owner or
operator of any public passenger vehicle to stand or park in a parking lot
which is located on the same premises as a grocery store, delicatessen, or
convenience food store for a period longer than ten (10) minutes. (Ord. M-19-
13, 10-7-2013)
4-14-12: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
In addition to any other penalties prescribed, any licensee having been found
guilty of a second violation of any section of this chapter shall be subject to
having his license revoked by the legal department. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-14-13: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined as provided
in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. M-19-
13, 10-7-2013)
CHAPTER 15
MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
4-15-1: Title, General Provisions
4-15-2: Definitions
4-15-3: Operating Permit Requirements
4-15-4: Development And Operating Requirements
4-15-5: Registration
4-15-6: Compliance Required
4-15-1: TITLE, GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Title: This chapter shall be known as the MOBILE HOME PARK ORDINANCE.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish minimum standards
for the operation of mobile home parks, including development and facilities
necessary therefor, in order to minimize contagion, ensure adequate light and
air, provide safe and sanitary facilities and otherwise promote and protect the
public health, safety, comfort and general welfare.
   C.   Jurisdiction: This chapter shall apply to all mobile home parks or any
part thereof located within the city.
   D.   Enforcement: This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the
health officer or an authorized representative, herein referred to as the
health officer, who is hereby authorized to make all inspections and orders
deemed necessary to assure compliance with the provisions hereof. (Ord. M-19-
13, 10-7-2013)
4-15-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings herein
ascribed to them:
DEPARTMENT: The department of public health.
DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME: A mobile home which does not have toilet and bath or
shower facilities.
MOBILE HOME: Any vehicle or similar portable structure used or so constructed
as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon the public streets or highways
and designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one or
more persons.
MOBILE HOME PARK OR PARK: An area of land upon which two (2) or more occupied
mobile homes are harbored either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and
shall include any building, structure, tent, vehicle or enclosure used or
intended for use as a part of the equipment of such mobile home park.
MOBILE HOME SPACE OR MOBILE HOME SITE: Any portion of a mobile home park
designed for the use or occupancy of one mobile home.
SCHOOL DISTRICT: Any district created or operated under the provisions of the
school code act 1
. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 105 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
4-15-3: OPERATING PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: Within the jurisdiction of this chapter, no land or
premises shall be occupied or shall continue to be occupied by two (2) or more
mobile homes, which are used by tourists, transients or other persons for
sleeping or dwelling purposes, herein termed a mobile home park, unless the
park complies with the requirements of this chapter and unless the operating
permit has been issued therefor by the city manager and has not been revoked,
all as provided herein.
   B.   Application For Permit: Each application for an operating permit shall
be made on forms provided by the director of community and economic development
and which shall be filed with the director. Among other things, the application
shall describe the site, buildings and facilities of the mobile home park in
sufficient detail and accuracy so that upon investigation their compliance with
the provisions hereof may be judged.
   C.   Annual Operating Permits: The following rules apply for operating
permits required herein:
      1.   A permit to operate a mobile home park for the city's fiscal year
shall be issued promptly when an application therefor has been and is in proper
form and the mobile home park is found to be in compliance with the
requirements of this chapter.
      2.   A permit is not transferable and is renewable upon application if
the mobile home park is found to be still in compliance with this chapter.
      3.   The annual fee for subject permit shall be set forth in section
4-18-1 of this title.
      4.   Each mobile home existing upon the adoption date of this chapter, or
located in an area annexed to the city after the adoption date of this chapter,
for which an application for a permit has been made in proper form, that is
found to be not in compliance with this chapter shall be entitled to a
temporary operating permit and a reasonable time within which to comply with
each of the requirements involved.
      5.   The permit shall be conspicuously displayed in the office of the
park manager.
      6.   A permit may be revoked or suspended for violation of any provision
of this chapter but only after notice has been given the park manager and owner
or lessee of the park premises setting forth in writing the violation and time
allowed for abatement thereof. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-15-4: DEVELOPMENT AND OPERATING REQUIREMENTS:
Each mobile home park, licensed or to be constructed under the provisions of
this chapter shall provide for the following in the manner hereinafter
specified:
   A.   Supervision: Every mobile home park shall be in the charge of a
responsible attendant or caretaker at all times, whose duty it shall be to
maintain the park, its facilities and equipment in a clean, orderly and
sanitary condition and be answerable, with the licensee, for any violation of
the provisions of this chapter.
The management of every mobile home park shall assume full responsibility for
maintaining in good repair and condition all sanitary and safety appliances on
the park, and shall promptly bring such action as is necessary to prosecute or
eject from the park any person who wilfully or maliciously damages such
appliances, or any person who fails to comply with the regulations of this
chapter.
   B.   Location And Space:
      1.   No mobile home park shall be so located that the drainage park area
will endanger any water supply. All parks shall be well drained and shall be
located in areas free from ponds, swamps and similar places in which mosquitoes
may breed. No wastewater from mobile homes shall be deposited on the surface of
the ground.
      2.   Each mobile home shall be allotted a site of not less than one
thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet. No mobile home shall be parked
closer than five feet (5') to the side lot lines of a mobile home park, or
closer than ten feet (10') to a public street, alley or building. Each
individual mobile home site shall abut or face on a driveway or roadway of not
less than twenty four feet (24') in width, which driveway or roadway shall have
unobstructed access to a public highway or alley. There shall be an open space
of at least ten feet (10') adjacent to the sides of every mobile home and at
least five feet (5') adjacent to the ends of every mobile home.
      3.   Only independent mobile homes shall be parked in any mobile home
park within the city, and it shall not be permissible to park any dependent
mobile home within the city.
      4.   No mobile home which is in excess of fourteen feet (14') in height
shall be parked in any mobile home park within the city.
   C.   Water Supply: An adequate supply of water of safe sanitary quality,
meeting the standards of the department, shall be furnished at each mobile home
park. Where water from other sources than that supplied by the city is proposed
to be used, the source of the supply shall first be approved by the health
officer. Each mobile home site shall be provided with a cold water tap at least
four inches (4") above the ground.
   D.   Laundry Facilities:
      1.   A laundry room or building shall be provided containing laundry
trays to accommodate the patrons of the mobile home park. The building shall be
conveniently located, well constructed, having good natural and artificial
lighting, adequate ventilation and floors of concrete or similar impervious
materials. Concrete curbings extending to at least six inches (6") above the
floor, shall be provided and the floor sloped to adequate drains. Walls and
partitions shall be constructed of impervious material where subject to splash.
The building shall be maintained at a temperature of at least sixty eight
degrees Fahrenheit (68°F) during the period from October 1 to May 1.
      2.   An adequate water supply shall be provided at all times for the
operation of all water closets in the service buildings, and an adequate supply
of hot and cold water shall be provided at all times in the service buildings
for all washing, cleaning and laundry facilities.
      3.   The number of laundry facilities required for all mobile home sites
shall be in accordance with the department's rules and regulations.
      4.   No laundry trays shall be located in toilet or bathrooms.
   E.   Sewage And Other Water Carried Wastes:
      1.   All sewage and other water carried wastes shall be disposed of into
a municipal sewerage system whenever available. In mobile home parks in which
such connections are not available, disposal shall be into a private system
which includes a sanitary means of disposal, the operation of which creates
neither a nuisance nor a menace to health.
      2.   When a water carriage system of sewage is used, each mobile home
site shall be provided with a sewer connection for the combined liquid waste
outlet of each mobile home. It shall be the duty of the owner or operator of
the mobile home park to provide an approved type of water and odor tight
connection from the mobile home water drainage to the sewer connection, and it
shall be the duty of the owner or operator to make such connection and keep all
occupied mobile homes connected to the sewer while located in a mobile home
park. Sewer connections in unoccupied mobile home sites shall be so closed that
they will emit no odors or cause a breeding place for flies. No water or waste
shall be allowed to fall on the ground from a mobile home.
   F.   Garbage And Rubbish Storage And Disposal:
      1.   A sufficient number of adequate flyproof and watertight containers
shall be supplied for the storage of garbage except where an adequate
incinerator is provided.
      2.   Garbage containers shall be emptied at least every three (3) days
and shall not be filled to overflowing, or allowed to become foul smelling or a
breeding place for flies.
      3.   Garbage and rubbish shall be disposed of in a manner which creates
neither a nuisance nor a menace to health and which is approved by the
department.
      4.   Adequate insect and rodent control measures shall be employed. All
buildings shall be fly and rodent proof and rodent harborages shall not be
permitted to exist in the park.
   G.   Cooking And Eating Facilities: When community kitchens and dining rooms
are provided, such facilities and equipment as are supplied must be maintained
in a sanitary condition and kept in good repair.
   H.   Electrical Outlets: Electrical outlets for each individual mobile home
site shall be provided in the installation and shall be in compliance with all
state and local electrical codes 1
. No connected electric extension cord shall lie on the ground or be suspended
less than seven feet (7') from the ground above sidewalks or pathways.
   I.   Fire Protection: Fire extinguishers of a type approved by the state
fire marshal for use at mobile home parks shall be placed at locations within
two hundred feet (200') of each individual mobile home site. Each fire
extinguisher shall be periodically examined and kept at all times in a
condition for use.
   J.   Temporary Porches: Temporary porches, canvas roofed canopies and skirts
shall be permitted for mobile homes, and auxiliary rooms may also be authorized
by regulation of the department if constructed of fire resistant materials of
such specifications as shall be required by such regulations. However, these
appurtenances may be erected only if there is compliance with the proximity
regulations set forth herein, in subsection B of this section.
   K.   Building Regulations: All buildings constructed or altered, all
plumbing, and all electrical and heating installations shall be in accordance
with existing municipal and county building regulations and the rules and
regulations of the department.
   L.   Additional Requirements: The following provisions shall be applicable
to all mobile home parks licensed under the provisions of this chapter:
      1.   It shall be the duty of each licensee on February 1 and September 1
of each year to file with the school board or boards at the school district
wherein the mobile home park is located, a report giving the names and ages of
all children of school age living in the mobile home park.
      2.   All streets and driveways, in every mobile home park, must be
maintained in a passable and reasonably dustproof condition at all times and
all streets and driveways in every mobile home park established after January
1, 1954, shall have a minimum width of twenty feet (20') for streets or
driveways, except that all streets and driveways in parks constructed after
August 21, 1967, shall have a minimum width of twenty four feet (24').
      3.   It shall be the duty of every owner, operator or attendant of any
mobile home park to report to the board or the county health officer the full
name, age and address of every person who is affected or suspected of being
affected with any reportable or communicable disease. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 10-1-6 of this code.
4-15-5: REGISTRATION:
Each mobile home park shall be provided with a custodian's office where each
mobile home entering the mobile home park shall be assigned to a lot location,
given a copy of the mobile home rules, and registered according to the
prescribed form. The registration shall include the name and address of every
occupant of the mobile home; the license number of all units, the state issuing
the license; and a statement indicating the exact location at which the mobile
home was last parked, including the state, city, town or village where the
parking occurred. The licensee shall keep a registry of all children of school
age occupying mobile homes in the mobile home park. Any person furnishing
misinformation for purposes of registration shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and punishable under the general statutes for such offense. The
registration records shall not be destroyed until six (6) years have elapsed
following the date of registration. The register shall be available at all
times for inspection by law enforcement officers. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-15-6: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
This chapter does not nullify any requirements adopted by other jurisdiction
having authority over all or part of the matters covered herein; however, it
shall be necessary to comply with, and the health officer shall enforce, the
more stringent or restrictive requirements.
All parks within the corporate limits shall be constructed, operated or
maintained so that they will at all times at least meet the minimum
requirements of the Illinois mobile homes and mobile home parks act 1
, and the rules and regulations pertaining thereto adopted by the department.
(Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 210 ILCS 115/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 16
ADULT USES
SECTION:
4-16-1: Definitions
4-16-2: License Required
4-16-3: Fees
4-16-4: Liquor Licensing
4-16-5: Location
4-16-6: Hours Of Operation
4-16-7: Site Plan Review Required
4-16-8: Exterior Display
4-16-9: Application
4-16-10: Existing Adult Uses
4-16-1: DEFINITIONS:
ADULT BOOKSTORE: An establishment having as a substantial or significant
portion of its sales or stock in trade, books, magazines, films for sale or for
viewing on premises by use of motion picture devices or by coin operated means,
and periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities, or
specified anatomical areas; or an establishment with a segment or section
devoted to the sale or display of such materials; or an establishment that
holds itself out to the public as a purveyor of such materials based upon its
signage, advertising, displays, actual sales, presence of video preview or coin
operated booths, exclusion of minors from the establishment's premises or any
other factors showing the establishment's primary purpose is to purvey such
material.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET: A public or private establishment which:
   A.   Features topless dancers, strippers, go-go dancers, male or female
impersonators, lingerie or bathing suit fashion shows;
   B.   Not infrequently features entertainers who display specified anatomical
areas; or
   C.   Features entertainers who by reason of their appearance or conduct
perform in a manner which is designed primarily to appeal to the prurient
interest of the patron or features entertainers who engage in, or are engaged
in explicit simulation of, specified sexual activities.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A building or area used for presenting materials
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons therein.
ADULT NOVELTY STORE: An establishment having a substantial or significant
portion of its sales or stock in trade consisting of toys, devices, clothing
novelties, lotions and other items distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on or use for specialized sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas or an establishment that holds itself out to the public as a purveyor of
such materials based upon its signage, advertising, displays, actual sales,
exclusion of minors from the establishment's premises or any other factors
showing the establishment's primary purpose is to purvey such material.
ADULT USE: Adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult entertainment
cabarets, adult novelty stores and other similar uses.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: For the purpose of this chapter:
   A.   Less than completely and opaquely covered: 1) human genitals, 2) pubic
region, 3) buttock, 4) female breasts below a point immediately above the top
of the areola; and
   B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: For the purpose of this chapter:
   A.   Human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
   B.   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; and
   C.   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock or female breasts. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-16-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall own, promote, operate, conduct, or manage an "adult use"
business as defined in section
4-16-1 of this chapter without first having obtained a license. (Ord. M-19-13,
10-7-2013)
4-16-3: FEES:
   A.   The annual license fee for each adult use location shall be set forth
in section
4-18-1 of this title.
   B.   A nonrefundable fee in the amount set forth in section
4-18-1 of this title per person listed in section
4-16-9 of this chapter to cover the cost of the criminal background check.
(Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-16-4: LIQUOR LICENSING:
No liquor license shall be issued and no liquor, food, or beverages of any kind
shall be sold or consumed on the premises of any adult use. No person under the
age of twenty one (21) years shall be permitted on or in the premises of any
adult use. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-16-5: LOCATION:
Adult uses are permitted in an industrial district, including planned unit
development areas provided:
   A.   No adult use shall be located within seven hundred fifty feet (750') of
any property which is zoned or used for residences, churches, childcare
centers, schools, parks, or from any other adult uses.
   B.   The distances above mentioned shall be measured from property
boundaries. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-16-6: HOURS OF OPERATION:
No adult use shall remain open for business of any kind between the hours of
eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. Sunday through
Thursday, and between twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and nine o'clock (9:00)
A.M. Friday and Saturday. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-16-7: SITE PLAN REVIEW REQUIRED:
Prior to the issuance of any permit for the construction or occupancy of an
adult use, the applicant for said permit(s) must first proceed through the site
development and plan review procedure set forth in section
12-3-2, "Site Plan Review", of the zoning code. However, site plan review for
an adult use shall be considered by the planning and zoning board within sixty
(60) days of filing. After consideration by the planning and zoning board,
findings shall be forwarded to the city council and considered within sixty
(60) days of the planning and zoning board's consideration. The planning and
zoning board and city council may place conditions on the development and
operation of the adult use related to site plan, floor plan, construction
materials, lighting, parking and circulation, ingress and egress, landscaping
and screening and signage in order to assure that the design and operation of
the adult use is in conformance with all city ordinances and is compatible with
surrounding uses. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013; amd. Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
4-16-8: EXTERIOR DISPLAY:
No adult use shall be conducted in any manner that permits the observation of
any material depicting, describing or relating to "specified sexual activities"
or specified anatomical areas from any public way or from any property not
registered as an adult use. This provision shall apply to any display,
decoration, sign, show window or other opening. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-16-9: APPLICATION:
   A.   License Application: Any person desiring a license shall make
application therefor through the director of community and economic development
or his designated representative. The application for a license to operate an
adult use establishment shall set forth the exact nature of the adult use to be
operated and the proposed place of business and facilities therefor.
   B.   Information Required: In addition to the foregoing, any applicant for a
license, including any partner or limited partner of a partnership applicant,
any officer or director of a corporate applicant, and any stockholder holding
more than ten percent (10%) of the stock of a corporate applicant, and any
manager and employee of the adult use shall furnish the following information:
      1.   Name and address.
      2.   Written proof that the individual is at least twenty one (21) years
of age.
      3.   All residential addresses for the past three (3) years.
      4.   The applicant's height, weight, color of eyes and hair.
      5.   The business, occupation, or employment of the individual for the
three (3) years immediately preceding the date of application.
      6.   The adult use or similar business license history of the individual;
whether such person, is previously operating such a business in this or another
city or state under license, has had such license revoked or suspended, the
reason therefor, and the business activity or occupation subsequent to such
action of suspension or relocation.
      7.   All federal or state criminal or county or city ordinance violation
convictions or findings of guilt, in federal court, circuit court or by
administrative proceedings, forfeiture of bond and pleadings of nolo contendere
on all charges, except minor traffic violations.
      8.   The fingerprints and photograph of the individual.
      9.   If the applicant is a corporation, or a partner of a partnership is
a corporation, the name of the corporation shall be set forth exactly as shown
in its articles of incorporation.
      10.   The individual's tax identification number, the business
identification number, and the corporation's identification number, if a
corporation.
      11.   The proposed hours of operation and the names of the owner/manager
who will be on site during those hours.
   C.   Investigation: The application shall be referred to the police chief
for investigation and verification of the facts stated therein. The chief of
police shall determine whether the applicants, or if a partnership or
corporation, any stockholder, director or member of the partnership or any
employee or manager, has been convicted of, pled guilty to, or been found
guilty of a criminal offense in either the state or federal court, or has been
convicted of, pled guilty to, or been found guilty by a court of law, of a
criminal offense, racketeering and organized crime, sex, drugs, or controlled
substances, or ordinance violation relating to, or which is opposed to honesty,
decency and morality. The police chief shall further determine whether the
applicant or its principals, employees or managers are persons of good moral
character.
   D.   Denial; Appeal Of Application: If the police chief shall determine that
the applicant, stockholders, directors, members, employees or manager, or any
of them, have in fact been so convicted, pled guilty to, or found guilty, or
have engaged in such illegal activities or otherwise are not persons of good
character and fitness, he shall report the results of his findings to the city
manager. The city manager shall then order that said license shall not be
issued. The applicant shall have the right to appeal to the city council in the
manner provided in section
4-2-12 of this title.
   E.   Determination: If the mayor shall determine at any time that any
licensee is not in fact eligible by reason of any facts which would not have
made the applicant eligible for the issuance of the original license, said
license may be revoked by the mayor after written notice to the licensee, which
notice shall specify the ordinance or law violations with which the licensee is
charged, if, after a hearing the licensee is found to be guilty of such
violations. Ten (10) days' notice of the hearing shall be given to the
licensee. At such hearing, the licensee and his attorney may present and submit
evidence or witnesses in his defense.
   F.   Nontransferable: A license shall not be transferable from person to
person, nor place to place and shall be usable only at the place and by the
person designated in the license. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-16-10: EXISTING ADULT USES:
Any adult use which existed lawfully, but which became nonconforming upon the
adoption of this chapter, may be continued as hereinafter provided:
   A.   Upon written notice from the city to the owners or interests therein
that any building structure, lot or regulated use is nonconforming under the
provisions of this code as amended, the owners or interests therein shall,
within two (2) months from the date of such notice, apply to the community
development department for a certificate of nonconformance.
   B.   Failure to apply for a certificate of nonconformance within two (2)
months of the notice provided for in subsection A of this section will require
the amortization of the nonconformance within six (6) months of the notice
provided for in subsection A of this section.
   C.   Nonconformances that have applied for a certificate of nonconformance
from the community development department shall be discontinued within one year
of the notice provided for in subsection A of this section. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-
7-2013)
CHAPTER 17
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES USED FOR RENTALS
SECTION:
4-17-1: Licensing
4-17-2: Registration Of Group Homes
4-17-3: Crime Free Multihousing Program
4-17-1: LICENSING:
   A.   Definitions:
    MULTIPLE DWELLING UNIT:
      1.   Apartment; or
      2.   Condominium unit where more than one unit under common ownership
within a single building is being offered as a rental property.
   RENTAL PROPERTY: Any residential property, including single- family detached
dwelling units, single-family attached units, or multiple dwelling units, that
are rented for income or payment, in return for the right to occupy or use the
property of another, either part of the year or all year, and are nonowner
occupied.
   SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED UNIT: Townhouse or condominium.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED DWELLING UNIT: House.
   B.   License Required: No person shall utilize a single-family detached
dwelling unit, a single-family attached unit, or a multiple dwelling unit,
unless he holds a current unrevoked license issued by the department of
community and economic development, in his name for the specific named single-
family detached dwelling unit, or single-family attached dwelling unit, or
multiple dwelling unit.
   C.   Period Of License: No license shall be granted for a period longer than
one year, every license shall expire on December 31 following the date of its
issuance, and no license shall be granted for a sum less than the full annual
license fee except as qualified by subsection
4-2-8C of this title.
   D.   Requirements: The director of community and economic development, or
his designee, is hereby authorized, upon application thereof, to issue new
licenses for rental properties. No such license shall be issued unless the
rental property, in connection with which the license is sought, meets the
following requirements:
      1.   After inspection by the code official, the property is found to meet
all applicable requirements of any codes adopted by the city pertaining to
health and fire prevention and applicable rules and regulations adopted
pursuant thereto, and all laws of the state regarding rental properties.
   E.   Application Form: No rental property license shall be issued or renewed
unless the applicant owner or managing agent has first made application
therefor on an application form provided by the department of community and
economic development. Every application for a license shall contain the
property owner's name, address and phone number. If the property is owned by a
partnership, firm, or corporation, the application shall contain the name,
business address, and phone number of each designated agent. If the property is
in trust, the application must contain the name, address, and phone number of
the trust and each of the trustees. Post office boxes will not be accepted.
   F.   Inspection: No rental property license shall be issued or renewed
unless the applicant owner or operator agrees in the application to inspections
pursuant to section
10-9-1 of this code as the director of community and economic development may
require to determine whether the rental property for which such license is
sought, is in compliance with the applicable provisions of this code and with
the applicable rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
   G.   License Fee: No rental property license shall be issued or renewed
unless the complete application form is accompanied by payment of a license
fee. License fees are set forth in section
4-18-1 of this title. A ten percent (10%) discount off the license fee will be
given to those who successfully complete all three (3) certification levels of
the Des Plaines crime free multihousing program.
   H.   Display Of License: Each license shall be displayed in the foyer or
other conspicuous place within the common ways of the multiple dwelling units.
Licenses for single-family detached dwelling units and single-family attached
dwelling units need only be retained by the licensee.
   I.   Transferability: No license shall be transferable to another person, or
to another rental property. Every person holding a rental property license
shall give notice in writing to the department of community and economic
development within twenty four (24) hours after having transferred or otherwise
disposed of the legal control of any licensed rental property. Such notice
shall include the name and address of the person or persons succeeding to the
ownership or control of such rental property.
   J.   Record Of Repairs And Changes: Every owner or managing agent of a
licensed rental property shall keep or cause to be kept an accurate record of
all repairs, alterations, and equipment changes relating to the provisions of
this code or to any rules and regulations pertaining thereto, and of all
corrections made as the result of inspections by the code official. The owner
when requested shall make such record available to the director of community
and economic development. Every owner subject to this section shall be notified
that such record may be used in administrative or judicial proceedings pursuant
to the provisions of this code. The department of community and economic
development shall, upon issuance of a license as required in subsection B of
this section, advise the licensee of the necessity for such recordkeeping and
the manner in which such record shall be kept.
   K.   Notice Of Violation: Whenever, upon inspection of the licensed rental
property, or upon inspection of the records required to be kept by subsection J
of this section, the director of community and economic development finds that
conditions or practices exist which are in violation of any provision of any
code adopted by the city or of any applicable rules and regulations adopted
pursuant thereto, the director shall serve the owner with notice of such
violation in the manner hereinafter provided. Such notice shall state that
unless the violation(s) cited is corrected within a reasonable time period, the
rental property license may be suspended or revoked.
   L.   Reinspection: At the end of the time the director of community and
economic development has allowed for correction of any violation cited, the
code official shall reinspect the rental property and if he determines that
such condition(s) has not been corrected, the director of community and
economic development may issue an order suspending the rental property license.
   M.   Crime Free Multihousing Seminar: Any owner, agent or designee may be
required to attend the city of Des Plaines crime free multi-unit housing
seminar at the request of the city manager based on the following
considerations:
      1.   If the property rented by the owner is becoming a nuisance
residential property as defined in subsection
4-17-3E of this chapter.
      2.   Criminal activity is occurring on the premises and the landlord has
failed to initiate eviction proceedings.
   N.   Appeal, Suspension And Revocation Of License: Any person whose license
for a rental property that has been suspended or revoked, shall be entitled to
a hearing through the administrative hearings program. A hearing may be
scheduled by sending a written appeal with grounds thereof pursuant to section
1-16-17 of this code. If no appeal is made, the director of community and
economic development within ten (10) days following the issuance of the order
of suspension or revocation, the license shall be revoked, except that prior to
revocation any person whose license has been suspended may request
reinspection, upon a showing that the violation or violations cited in the
notice have been corrected.
   O.   Reinstatement Of License: If, upon reinspection, the code official
finds that a licensed residential rental property, in connection with the
notice issued is now in compliance with this code, and with applicable rules
and regulations issued pursuant thereto, the code official shall reinstate the
rental property license.
   P.   Conviction: If the licensee is convicted by a court or administrative
tribunal of a violation of any applicable ordinance of the city in connection
with the licensed rental property, then the license may be subject to
suspension or revocation without further notice.
   Q.   Extremely Hazardous Conditions: In the event of a condition of extreme
hazard to health or safety is found to exist, the code official may immediately
suspend the license and post the property uninhabitable.
   R.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be fined as set out in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord.
M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
4-17-2: REGISTRATION OF GROUP HOMES:
   A.   Definition: For the purposes of this section, "group home" shall mean a
living arrangement certified by a community mental health or developmental
services agency where eight (8) or fewer persons with a mental illness or with
a developmental disability reside together under the supervision of the agency.
A group home shall be equivalent in all respects to a "community-integrated
living arrangement" as defined in the community-integrated living arrangements
licensure and certification act 1
.
   B.   Registration Required; Application: Group homes that are licensed by
the state of Illinois pursuant to the community- integrated living arrangements
licensure and certification act 2
shall be exempt from the licensing requirements of this chapter, and any other
licensing provisions of this title, but shall be required to register as a
place of business in accordance with the processes set forth in chapter 1 of
this title. In addition to the application requirements set forth in chapter 1
of this title, any person seeking to operate a group home in the city will be
required to provide proof that they hold a current and valid license to operate
the group home issued by the state of Illinois.
   C.   Exemption From Business Registration Fee: Any state licensed group home
seeking to register its place of business shall be exempt from any registration
fee otherwise charged by the city. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 210 ILCS 135/3.
2 2. 210 ILCS 135/1 et seq.
4-17-3: CRIME FREE MULTIHOUSING PROGRAM:
All owners of dwelling rental units shall comply with the provisions of this
crime free multihousing program. An owner may designate a property manager to
obtain compliance on his behalf. However, the owner remains responsible for
compliance with this program.
   A.   Attendance: Any owner of property, which property is being rented out
for residential purposes shall attend and complete the city of Des Plaines
crime free multihousing program seminar. The owner, agent or designee shall
attend the seminar prior to obtaining or being issued a city of Des Plaines
residential rental property license. Any current license holders shall have
until January 1, 2010, to attend the city of Des Plaines crime free
multihousing program.
   B.   Time Limit: A property manager shall be considered an agent of the
owner. If a new manager is hired, the new manager shall have three (3) months
after hiring to attend the city of Des Plaines crime free multihousing program
seminar.
   C.   Record Of Attendance: The crime free multihousing coordinator, as
designated by the chief of police, shall provide the director of community and
economic development with a list of owners, agents and/or designees who have
attended the city of Des Plaines crime free multihousing program seminar, with
the date of attendance and verification that the owner, agent or designee has
complied with this section.
   D.   Crime Free Lease Addendum: Any owner, agent or designee of residential
rental property must utilize a crime free lease addendum or have a clause in
the lease similar to a crime free lease addendum for any leases executed after
January 1, 2010. The crime free multihousing coordinator shall provide, at no
cost, samples of the crime free lease addendum and shall review any clauses
within actual leases with the city legal division to determine if the clause is
similar to the crime free lease addendum. The purpose of the clause is intended
to make criminal activity (not limited to violent criminal activity or drug
related criminal activity engaged by, facilitated by or permitted by the
renter, member of the household, guest or other party under the control of the
renter) a lease violation. Violation of the clause shall be grounds to initiate
an eviction proceeding as specified in the Illinois Compiled Statutes forcible
entry and detainer statutes. For the purposes of this section, proof of
criminal violation shall be by a preponderance of the evidence.
   E.   Nuisance Residential Rental Property: It is hereby declared a nuisance
and to be declared against the health, peace and comfort of the city for any
property owner, agent, or manager to allow or permit the following: 1) rental
of a residential unit, or residential building within an apartment community or
governed by a homeowners' association to a tenant who allows any of the
following offenses to occur relating to the tenant, member of the tenant
household, guest or other party under control of the tenant to occur: murder,
kidnapping, aggravated kidnapping, prostitution, solicitation of prostitution,
pandering, child pornography, storage or manufacture of harmful materials,
criminal housing management, possession of explosives, unlawful use of weapons,
sale of firearms, gambling, keeping a gambling place, concealing a fugitive,
violation of the Illinois controlled substances act, violation of the cannabis
control act or commission of any two (2) or more of any other crimes under the
state of Illinois or under the federal government not specifically listed
above; 2) rental of a residential unit, or residential building within an
apartment community or governed by a homeowners' association to a tenant who
allows said property to be deemed a chronic nuisance property as set forth in
title 5, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
CHAPTER 18
SCHEDULE OF FEES
SECTION:
4-18-1: Fee Schedule
4-18-1: FEE SCHEDULE:
Section Fee Description Number Term Fee
                                     New
Section    Fee Description     Number Term               Fee
                                                                     New
Chapter 1  Business                                                
           Registration
           Business
4-1-5      registration fee                                        
           (based on floor
           area):
           <2,500 sq. ft.          Annual                        $55.00
           2,501 - 5,000 sq.       Annual                        $110.00
             ft.
           5,001 - 10,000          Annual                        $165.00
             sq. ft.
           10,001 - 15,000         Annual                        $280.00
             sq. ft.
           >15,000 sq. ft.         Annual                        $560.00
           Replacement fee for
4-1-7B     lost or damaged           Per copy                      $5.00
           certificate
Chapter 2  Business Licenses -                                     
           Generally
           Background check/          Annual (per
4-2-8      fingerprinting fee        person)                       $50.00
           (nonrefundable)
           Replacement fee for
4-2-9B     lost or damaged           Per copy                      $5.00
           certificate, tag,
           or sticker
Chapter 3  Temporary Event                                         
           Licenses
4-3-3B     Amusement license         Per occurrence (4             $50.00
           fee                        days)
4-3-3C     Maintenance deposit       Per occurrence                $500.00
           (public property)
           Seasonal retail
4-3-4      location license          Annual (90 days)              $50.00
           fee
Chapter 4  Liquor Control
4-4-5A     License fees and
           number:
          Class               Number Term               Initial Fee Annual Fee
           Class A           43     Annual             $3,850.00   $1,925.00
           Class A-1         2      Annual             $4,840.00   $2,420.00
           Class A-2                Annual             $6,050.00   $3,025.00
           Class AB          1      Annual             $7,480.00   $3,740.00
           Class AB-1        0      Annual             $8,470.00   $4,235.00
           Class AB-2               Annual             $9,680.00   $4,840.00
           Class B           16     Annual             $3,630.00   $1,815.00
           Class B-1         18     Annual             $3,630.00   $1,815.00
           Class C           2      Annual             $1,210.00   $605.00
           Class D                  Per day                       $28.00
           Class E           16     Annual             $3,630.00   $1,815.00
           Class F           0      Annual             $2,860.00   $1,430.00
           Class G           4      Annual             $3,630.00   $1,815.00
           Class H                  Annual             $3,630.00   $1,815.00
           Class H-1         9      Annual             $3,630.00   $1,815.00
           Class H-2         2      Annual                         
           Class I           1      Annual             $600.00     $300.00
           Class J           3      Annual             $3,630.00   $1,815.00
           Class K           2      Annual                        $550.00
           Class K-                                               
             subsidiary:
           Annual                   Annual                        $440.00
           Event                    Per event                     $55.00
           Class L           1      Annual             $2,860.00   $1,430.00
           Class M           13     Annual             $3,630.00   $1,815.00
           Class N           9      Annual             $12,000.00  $6,000.00
           Class O                  Per day            $1,000.00   $500.00
             Class P                  Annual             $3,630.00   $1,815.00
Section    Fee Description     Number Term               Fee
                                                                     New
4-4-5B1    License application       Annual                        $55.00
           processing fee
Chapter 5  Food Service                                            
           Vehicles
4-5-2      Food service              Annual (per                   $50.00
           vehicle license fee        vehicle)
Chapter 6  Firearms Dealers                                        
4-6-3B     Firearms dealer           Annual                        $500.00
           license fee
Chapter 7  Tobacco Dealers                                         
4-7-2C     Tobacco dealer            Annual                        $200.00
           license fee
Chapter 8  Pawnbrokers And                                         
           Secondhand Dealers
4-8-2C     Pawnbroker license        Annual                        $500.00
           fee
4-8-2C     Secondhand dealer         Annual                        $500.00
           license fee
Chapter 9  Solicitors                                              
4-9-2C     Solicitor license         Per occurrence (60            $100.00
           fee                        days)
Chapter 10 Contractors                                             
4-10-3     Building contractor       Annual                        $50.00
           license fee
Chapter 13 Massage                                                 
           Establishments
4-13-3     License fee               Annual                        $500.00
Chapter 14 Public Passenger                                        
           Vehicles
4-14-1B    Chauffeur license         Annual                        $40.00
           fee
4-14-2A    Taxicab company           Annual                        $150.00
           license fee
4-14-3A    Taxicab vehicle           Annual                        $40.00
           license fee
           Mechanical and
4-14-4A3   physical test fee         Semiannually                  $75.00
           (maximum)
           Mechanical and
4-14-4B2   physical                                               $10.00
           reinspection base
           charge
           Charge for each            Base charge +
4-14-4B2   additional                ($5.00 per each                
           reinspection               additional number
                                      of inspections)
Chapter 15 Mobile Home Parks                                       
4-15-3C3   Annual operating          Annual                        $500.00
           permit
Chapter 16 Adult Uses                                              
4-16-3A    License fee               Annual                        $2,500.00
           Residential
Chapter 17 Properties Used For                                     
           Rentals
           Multi-family
4-17-1G    dwelling unit             Annual                        $20.00
           license fee
           Single-family
4-17-1G    attached dwelling         Annual                        $50.00
           unit license fee
           Single-family
4-17-1G    detached dwelling         Annual                        $100.00
           unit license fee
Chapter 20 Body Art                                                
           Establishments
           Body art
          establishment                                          $200.00
           license fees
 
(Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013; amd. Ord. M-53-13, 12-2-2013; Ord. M-12-14, 4-21-
2014; Ord. M-13-14, 5-5-2014; Ord. M-18-14, 6-16-2014; Ord. M-19-14, 6-16-2014;
Ord. M-21-14, 7-7-2014; Ord. M-22-14, 7-7-2014; Ord. M-23-14, 7-7-2014; Ord. M-
27-14, 8-18-2014; Ord. M-29-14, 9-15-2014; Ord. M-42-14, 11-3-2014; Ord. M-43-
14, 11-3-2014; Ord. M-9A-15, 4-20-2015; Ord. M-16-15, 9-8-2015; Ord. M-19-15,
10-19-2015; Ord. M-42-15, 12-7-2015; Ord. M-1-16, 2-1-2016; Ord. M-16-16, 6-20-
2016; Ord. M-19-16, 7-18-2016; Ord. M-20-16, 7-18-2016; Ord. M-25-16, 9-6-2016;
Ord. M-30-16, 11-7-2016; Ord. M-56-16, 12-5-2016; Ord. M-57-16, 12-5-2016; Ord.
M-58-16, 1-3-2017; Ord. M-1-17, 1-17-2017; Ord. M-3-17, 2-6-2017; Ord. M-4-17,
2-6-2017; Ord. M-9-17, 4-17-2017; Ord. M-1-18, 1-16-2018; Ord. M-8-18, 5-7-
2018; Ord. M-15-18, 7-16-2018; Ord. M-4-19, 3-4-2019; Ord. M-9-19, 4-15-2019;
Ord. M-13-19, 5-20- 2019; Ord. M-14-19, 6-3-2019; Ord. M-21-19, 10-7-2019; Ord.
M-9-20, 5-18-2020; Ord. M-13-20, 10-19-2020; Ord. M-30-20, 12-7-2020; Ord. M-
29-20, 11-2-2020; Ord. M-5-21, 4-19-2021; Ord. M-10-21, 8-16-2021; Ord. M-12-
21, 10-4-2021; Ord. M-17-21, 11-1-2021; Ord. M-28-21, 12-6-2021; Ord. M-30-21,
1-3-2022; Ord. M-2-22, 2-7-2022; Ord. M-9-22, 4-4-2022; Ord. M-11-22, 4-4-2022;
Ord. M-12-22, 4-4-2022; Ord. M-13-22, 4-4-2022; Ord. M-18-22, 6-6-2022; Ord. M-
21-22, 7-18-2022; Ord. M-24-22, 9-19-2022; Ord. M-25-22, 9-19-2022; Ord. M-26-
22, 10-3-2022; Ord. M-27-22, 10-3-2022; Ord. M-38-22, 12-19-2022; Ord. M-5-23,
2- 21-2023; Ord. M-10-23, 8-7-2023; Ord. M-14-23, 9-5-2023; Ord. M-7-24, 4-15-
2024; Ord. M-12-24, 8-5-2024; Ord. M-13-24, 8-19-2024; Ord. M-19-24, 10-21-
2024; Ord. M-20-24, 11-4-2024; Ord. M-1-25, 1-21-2025; Ord. M-2-25, 1- 21-2025;
Ord. M-6-25, 4-7-2025)
CHAPTER 19
MINIMUM HOURLY WAGE
SECTION:
4-19-1: Minimum Hourly Wage Requirements
4-19-2: Definitions Of Employee And Employer
4-19-1: MINIMUM HOURLY WAGE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Hourly Wage: Employers shall comply with all Federal and State
of Illinois employment laws and guidelines with regard to payment of minimum
hourly wages.
   B.   Inapplicability Of Other Laws And Guidelines: No laws or guidelines
regarding minimum hourly wages, other than the Federal and State laws and
guidelines stated in subsection A of this section, will apply to employers
within the City of Des Plaines, including, without limitation, any obligations
adopted by the County of Cook Board of Commissioners. (Ord. M-12-17, 6-19-2017)
4-19-2: DEFINITIONS OF EMPLOYEE AND EMPLOYER:
   A.   For the purposes of this chapter, the term "employee" means an
individual permitted to work by an employer regardless of the number of persons
the employer employs, and the term "employer" means any person employing one or
more employees, or seeking to employ one or more employees, if the person has
its principal place of business within the City of Des Plaines or does business
within the City of Des Plaines.
   B.   For the purposes of this chapter, the term "employer" does not mean:
      1.   The government of the United States or a corporation wholly owned by
the government of the United States;
      2.   An Indian tribe or a corporation wholly owned by an Indian tribe;
      3.   The government of the State or any agency or department thereof; or
      4.   The government of any municipality. (Ord. M-12-17, 6-19-2017)
CHAPTER 20
BODY ART ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
4-20-1: Definitions
4-20-2: License Required
4-20-3: Application
4-20-4: Compliance Required
4-20-5: Prohibited Acts
4-20-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
               An establishment licensed under the Illinois Department of Public Health
               that conducts physical body adornment activities, including, but not
BODY ART       limited to, the following techniques: body piercing, tattooing, cosmetic
ESTABLISHMENT: tattooing, branding and scarification. This definition does not include
               practices that are considered medical procedures by the Illinois State
               Medical Board, such as implants under the skin, which shall not be
               performed in a body art establishment.
PIERCE or      To make a hole in the body in order to insert or allow the insertion of
PIERCING:      any ring, hoop, stud, or other object for the purpose of ornamentation
               of the body. The term “body” includes the oral cavity.
TATTOO or      To insert pigment under the surface of the skin of a human being, by
TATTOOING:     pricking with a needle or otherwise, so as to produce an indelible mark
               or figure visible through the skin. (M-29-20, 11-2-2020)
 
4-20-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall operate any Body Art Establishment in the City without first
having obtained a license therefor. License fees are set forth in section
4-18-1 of this title. (M-29-20, 11-2-2020)
4-20-3: APPLICATION:
   A.   An application for a body art establishment license must be made in
conformity with the general requirements of this code relating to applications
for licenses.
   B.   State Requirements: A body art establishment license shall not be
issued by the City until the applicant therefor has provided sufficient proof
that the body art establishment has obtained all licenses and registrations
required by the State of Illinois, including, without limitation, the
registration required by the Tattoo and Body Piercing Establishment
Registration Act, 410 ILCS 54, and the Illinois Department of Public Health’s
Body Art Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 797, as each may be amended from time to time.
(M-29-20, 11-2-2020)
4-20-4: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
No person shall operate a body art establishment in the city without fully
complying with:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter;
   B.   Applicable provisions of this code and the zoning ordinance; and
   C.   Applicable state regulations including, without limitation, the Tattoo
and Body Piercing Establishment Registration Act, 410 ILCS 54, and the Illinois
Department of Public Health’s Body Art Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 797, as each may
be amended from time to time. (M-29-20, 11-2-2020)
4-20-5: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any body art establishment licensee to:
   A.   Tattoo or offer to tattoo any person under the age of 18; or
   B.   Pierce the body of a person under the age of 18 unless that person is
accompanied by a parent or legal guardian who provides written consent to the
piercing while on the premises. When piercing the oral cavity of a person under
18 years old, the written consent required by this subsection B must comply
with the requirements of 720 ILCS 5/12C-40. (M-29-20, 11-2-2020)
CHAPTER 21
OCCASIONAL RESIDENTIAL SALES
SECTION:
4-21-1: Definitions
4-21-2: Occasional Residential Sale Regulations
4-21-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
            For the purposes of this chapter, “occasional residential sales” are defined as
            those sales of goods, wares and merchandise owned by the occupier of the
            premises or owned by a group of persons having a common sale commonly known as a
OCCASIONAL  garage sale, basement sale, house sale, yard sale, estate sale, moving sale, or
RESIDENTIAL rummage sale conducted on an infrequent and unscheduled basis on premises zoned
SALES:      or used for residential purposes. Bulk sales, the sale of multiple new items of
            the same description, and the sale of consigned merchandise, merchandise brought
            to the premises for resale or for reconditioning for resale are prohibited at
            occasional residential sales.
Premises zoned or used for residential purposes include:
MULTIPLE-   A residential building containing three or more dwelling units, including what
FAMILY      is commonly known as an apartment building or condominium, but not including
DWELLING:   group, row or town houses.
SINGLE-     A residential building containing dwelling units, each of which has primary
FAMILY      ground floor access to the outside and are attached to each other by party walls
ATTACHED    without openings. Includes townhomes.
DWELLING:
SINGLE-
FAMILY      A residential building containing not more than one dwelling unit entirely
DETACHED    surrounded by open space on the same lot. (Ord. M-10-21, 8-16-2021)
DWELLING:
 
4-21-2: OCCASIONAL RESIDENTIAL SALE REGULATIONS:
All occasional residential sales must be conducted in compliance with the
following regulations:
   A.   Duration and Frequency: Occasional residential sales may be conducted
for no more than three consecutive days and not more than three occasional
residential sales may be conducted on the same premises within any calendar
year with the exception of any community occasional residential sales
authorized by the City. A fourth occasional residential sale may be conducted
on the same premises within a calendar year if the owner of the premises is
moving or vacating the premises.
   B.   Hours of Operation: No occasional residential sale may be conducted
before 8:00 A.M. or after sunset.
   C.   Signage: All signs promoting an occasional residential sale must be
removed no later than 9:00 P.M. on the day the occasional residential sale has
ended. No sign promoting an occasional residential sale or sales may exceed
eight square feet. Signs may not be placed or displayed on any public right-of-
way, including, without limitation, on trees, light standards, telephone poles
or other supporting structures, or displayed in a manner that causes any unsafe
condition or impediment to vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
   D.   Location of Sale: It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct
occasional residential sales on any public street or public right-of-way or to
display wares associated with the sale on any public street or public right-of-
way.
   E.   Traffic: No occasional residential sales may be conducted in a manner
that causes any unsafe condition or impediment to vehicular or pedestrian
traffic. Vehicular parking for any occasional residential sale is not permitted
on any main thoroughfare. The Chief of Police, or their designee, may
automatically suspend an occasional residential sale license should such
violation occur.
   F.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this chapter, where no
other penalty is specifically provided, shall be fined as provided in the
general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord.
M-10-21, 8-16-2021)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL HEALTH REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Retail Food Store Sanitation Rules And Regulations
5-1-2: Smoking In Public Places
5-1-3: Contagious Diseases
5-1-4: Paid Sick Leave
5-1-1: RETAIL FOOD STORE SANITATION RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Regulations Adopted: The State of Illinois Department of Public Health
Food Store Sanitation Code (1996) and chapter 10 - Compliance Procedures of the
1976 U.S. Public Health Service, are hereby adopted by reference as though
fully set forth herein, except where they are in direct conflict with other
sections of this Code, and any future amendments to said rules and regulations
shall be automatically adopted. (Ord. M-10-99, 3-15-1999)
   B.   Conditional License Or Permit For Food Facility: When structural,
plumbing, electrical, ventilation or similar defects exist in an established
food facility that may require significant expenditures to correct, but are not
considered to be an imminent health hazard, a conditional license or permit may
be granted at the discretion of the health authority. Under no circumstances
will a conditional license or permit be issued for more than two (2)
consecutive twelve (12) month periods. The purpose of the conditional license
or permit shall be to allow a reasonable period of time for correction of
existing defect(s). (Ord. M-5-86, 1-20-1986)
   C.   Extermination: Every food handling facility and retail food store
should maintain a contract for extermination and pest control service, with a
licensed pest control operator. A copy of said contract shall be maintained on
premises and provided upon request, on inspection of the facility or
establishment.
   D.   Enforcement Interpretation: This section shall be enforced by the
health authority in accordance with the interpretations thereof contained in
the compliance provisions of the 1976 edition of the United States Public
Health Service Food Service Sanitation ordinance and Code, in all respects as
required by law, three (3) copies of which are on file in the City Clerk's
Office and which are hereby adopted by reference. (Ord. M-10-99, 3-15-1999)
5-1-2: SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES:
   A.   Definitions: The following definitions shall apply in the
interpretation and enforcement of this section:
   ACTIVE DINING: The actual seating available in a restaurant and not based on
occupancy load permitted by Code.
   BAR: An area which is devoted to the serving of alcoholic beverages for
consumption by guests on the premises and in which the serving of food is only
incidental to the consumption of such beverages. Although a restaurant may
contain a bar, the term "bar" shall not include the restaurant dining area.
   DINING AREA: Any enclosed area containing a counter or tables upon which
meals are served.
   EMPLOYEE: Any person who is employed by any employer in the consideration
for direct or indirect monetary wages or profit, and any person who volunteers
his services for a nonprofit entity.
   EMPLOYER: Any person, partnership, corporation, including a municipal
corporation, or nonprofit entity, who employs the services of one or more
individual persons.
   ENCLOSED AREA: All space between a floor and ceiling which is enclosed on
all sides by solid walls or windows (exclusive of door or passage ways) which
extend from the floor to the ceiling, including all space therein screened by
partitions which do not extend to the ceiling or are not solid, office
landscaping or similar structures.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT: Any enclosed area under the control of a public or
private employer which employees normally frequent during the course of
employment, including, but not limited to, work areas, employee lounges and
restrooms, conference and employee cafeterias and hallways.
      1.   A private residence is not a place of employment unless it is used
as a childcare facility.
      2.   The dining area of a restaurant is not a place of employment.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any enclosed area to which the public is invited or in which
the public is permitted, including, but not limited to, banks, educational
facilities, health facilities, public transportation facilities, reception
areas, restaurants, retail food production and marketing establishments, retail
service establishments, retail stores, theaters, waiting rooms, libraries,
nursing homes, hospitals and public transportation. A private residence is not
a public place.
   RESTAURANT: Any coffee shop, cafeteria, luncheonette, tavern, cocktail
lounge, sandwich stand, soda fountain, private and public school cafeteria or
eating establishment, and any other eating establishment, organization, club,
including veterans' club, boardinghouse or guest house, which gives or offers
for sale food to the public, guests, patrons, or employees as well as kitchens
in which food is prepared on the premises for serving elsewhere, including
catering facilities, except that the term "restaurant" shall not include a
cocktail lounge or tavern if said cocktail lounge or tavern is a bar.
   RETAIL TOBACCO STORE: A retail store utilized primarily for the sale of
tobacco products and accessories and in which the sale of other products is
merely incidental.
   SMOKING: Inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted cigar, pipe,
cigarette, weed, plant or other combustible substance in any manner or in any
form.
   WORK AREA: The immediate area in which an employee spends the majority of
the work day. (Ord. M-2-88, 3-21-1988; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Smoking Prohibited:
      1.   Enclosed Public Places: Smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed
public places. The owner or operator of a public place may designate an area(s)
as a smoking area(s) within the facility. The owner or operator of a public
place shall not designate the entire facility as a smoking area.
      2.   Restaurants:
         a.   Restaurants shall reserve thirty percent (30%) restaurant space
for nonsmokers. Such restaurants shall either: 1) post a sign at or near the
entrance to the restaurant stating that a nonsmoking seating area is available
upon request; or 2) verbally inquire of all patrons who are to be seated
whether they wish to be seated in the smoking or nonsmoking section.
         b.   Nonsmokers shall not pass through the smoking section when being
seated in the nonsmoking section.
         c.   Restaurants with fewer than fifty (50) seats shall be designated
as nonsmoking.
         d.   As an option, restaurants may designate a minimum of fifty
percent (50%) of its active dining area as nonsmoking or that such restaurant
is totally smoke free. (Ord. M-43-89, 9-5-1989; amd. 2002 Code)
      3.   Exceptions: Smoking in the following public places may be permitted:
         a.   Bars and bar areas of restaurants;
         b.   Private residence (except when used as a childcare facility);
         c.   Retail tobacco stores;
         d.   Bowling alleys;
         e.   Hotel rooms;
         f.   Private enclosed offices occupied only by smokers;
         g.   Factories, warehouses and similar places of work areas not
usually visited by the public.
   C.   Smoking In Places Of Employment:
      1.   Smoking shall be permitted as designated by the employer, except
that an employee may designate his own work area as a nonsmoking area and post
the same with an appropriate sign to be provided by the employer. Employers
should find reasonable accommodations when the rights of smokers conflict. When
such accommodations cannot be made the rights of the nonsmoker shall prevail.
      2.   Smoking at places of employment shall be prohibited in auditoriums,
classrooms, conference and meeting rooms, elevators, hallways and restrooms. In
places of employment where there is more than one conference room, meeting room
or restroom, the employer may designate any such room as a smoking area. An
employer shall not designate all conference rooms, meeting rooms or restrooms
as smoking areas.
      3.   Each employer and place of employment shall adopt, implement, make
known and maintain a written smoking policy, stating where smoking is permitted
and where it is prohibited within the place of employment.
      4.   Employers may permit public places and places of work to be
completely nonsmoking.
   D.   "No Smoking" Signs: Signs indicating "NO SMOKING" shall be posted in
all public places and all designated nonsmoking areas where smoking is
prohibited.
   E.   Rules And Regulations: The city council is authorized to establish
rules, regulations and procedures for relief from and implementation of this
section.
   F.   Penalties: Any person who violates, disobeys, or omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions
of this section shall be fined as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each day that a violation is permitted to
exist after notification thereof shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. M-
2-88, 3-21-1988; amd. 2002 Code)
5-1-3: CONTAGIOUS DISEASES:
   A.   Enforcement: It shall be the duty of all health and school authorities
to obey and enforce the provisions of this section 1
.
   B.   Procedures On Findings Of Contagion:
      1.   Reports:
         a.   Physician's Report: Every physician practicing in the city who
shall have any patient affected or sick with any malignant fever, cholera,
smallpox or any contagious or pestilential disease, shall forthwith make a
report thereof, in writing, to the director of community development,
describing the locality of the house or place where the patient may be, with
such certainty that the same may be easily found, and in case the patient has
died, to report the same within twenty four (24) hours after the death, with
the specified name or type of the disease. Any physician who shall withhold
such information or neglect or refuse to comply with the provisions of this
subsection shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
         b.   Resident's Report: Every resident of the city knowing of any
individual in the city, sick with any contagious disease, shall, unless
previously reported, report in writing to the director of community development
the same particulars as required of physicians in the preceding paragraph, and
any neglect or refusal thereof shall subject the person to the same general
penalties prescribed above.
      2.   Notice: Every householder within the limits of the City, in whose
dwelling there shall occur a case of cholera, yellow fever, typhoid fever,
scarlet fever, diphtheria or smallpox, shall immediately notify the Director of
Community Development of the same; and until instructions are received from the
department, no clothing or other property that may have been exposed to
infection shall be removed from the house, nor shall any occupant change his
residence elsewhere without the consent of the department during the prevalence
of any public danger from the disease. (1956 Code ch. 21 art. II; amd. 2002
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-20-5.
5-1-4: PAID SICK LEAVE:
   A.   Paid Sick Leave: Employers shall comply with all Federal and State of
Illinois employment laws and guidelines with regard to paid sick leave.
Employee eligibility for paid sick leave shall be pursuant to all Federal and
State employment laws and guidelines.
   B.   Inapplicability Of Other Laws And Guidelines: No laws or guidelines
regarding paid sick leave other than the Federal and State laws and guidelines
stated in subsection A of this section, will apply to employers within the City
of Des Plaines, including, without limitation, any obligations adopted by the
County of Cook Board of Commissioners.
   C.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the term "employee"
means an individual permitted to work by an employer regardless of the number
of persons the employer employs, and the term "employer" means any person
employing one or more employees, or seeking to employ one or more employees, if
the person has its principal place of business within the City of Des Plaines,
or does business within the City of Des Plaines.
   D.   Exceptions: For the purposes of this section, the term "employer" does
not mean:
      1.   The government of the United States or a corporation wholly owned by
the government of the United States;
      2.   An Indian tribe or a corporation wholly owned by an Indian tribe;
      3.   The government of the State or any agency or department thereof; or
      4.   The government of any municipality. (Ord. M-11-17, 6-19-2017)
CHAPTER 2
SOLID WASTE, RECYCLABLE MATERIALS,
YARD WASTE, AND COMPOSTING
SECTION:
5-2-1: Supervision Of Waste Collection
5-2-2: Definitions
5-2-3: Franchise For Waste Collection And Disposal From Residential Dwellings
5-2-4: Receptacles
5-2-5: Burning Trash, Leaves, Combustible Matter
5-2-6: Garbage Of Commercial Firms
5-2-7: Residential Waste Collection And Disposal Charge
5-2-8: Placement Of Receptacles For Collection
5-2-9: Yard Waste Collections
5-2-10: Reserved
5-2-11: Deposit Of Refuse; Nuisance Declared
5-2-12: Recycling Program
5-2-13: Composting
5-2-14: Infectious Wastes
5-2-15: Penalty
5-2-1: SUPERVISION OF WASTE COLLECTION:
All matters relating to or affecting the collection, removal or disposal of
household refuse, garbage, recyclable materials and yard waste, unless
specifically placed under the direction of the department of community
development, shall be subject to and under the supervision and direction of the
city manager and the director of public works.
The city manager and the director of public works are hereby authorized and
directed to cause all "garbage", "refuse", "recyclable materials" and "yard
waste", as same are hereinafter defined, to be collected regularly and
systematically throughout the city. (Ord. M-4-14, 2-3-2014)
5-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter the following words and terms shall have the meanings
herein ascribed to them:
                               Grass, garden clippings, brush, leaves, tree
COMPOSTABLE MATERIAL:          clippings, and other materials accumulated as
                               the result of the maintenance of gardens, lawns,
                               shrubbery, vines and trees.
COMPOSTING:                    The controlled biological reduction of organic
                               wastes to humus.
                               Any rejected or waste household food, offal,
                               swill, or carrion and every accumulation of
                               animal, fruit or vegetable matter that attends
                               the preparation, use, cooking and dealing in, or
                               storage of meats, fish, fowl, fruits or
GARBAGE:                       vegetables and any other matter of any nature,
                               that is subject to decay, putrefaction and the
                               generation of noxious or offensive gases or
                               odor, or that, during or after decay, may serve
                               as a breeding or feeding material for rodents,
                               flies or other germ carrying insects or animals.
                               Includes, without limitation, newsprint,
                               aluminum cans, steel cans, glass, various types
RECYCLABLE MATERIALS:          of paper, plastics and polymers, and any other
                               materials designated as "recyclable materials"
                               in the city's residential waste collection
                               franchise agreement.
                               All ashes, discarded household fixtures, manure,
                               tree branches, roots, trunks four inches (4") or
                               greater in diameter, building materials from
                               home remodeling and repairs (provided such items
                               are put into disposable containers or in tied
                               bundles, but not exceeding 4 feet in length and
REFUSE:                        not weighing over 50 pounds per container or
                               bundle; the total of which shall not exceed 1
                               cubic yard per collection), and small amounts of
                               bricks, sod, earth, concrete, and rocks
                               (provided such items are put into disposable
                               containers not weighing over 50 pounds per
                               container). Refuse shall not include yard waste
                               and recyclable materials.
SOLID WASTE:                   All garbage and refuse but not recyclable
                               materials or yard waste.
                               The waste disposal firm that the City enters
                               into an exclusive franchise agreement with for
                               the collection of solid waste, recyclable
WASTE COLLECTION FRANCHISEE:   materials, and yard waste from all single-family
                               dwellings and designated multi-family
                               residential dwellings pursuant to Section
                               5-2-3 of this chapter.
                               All accumulations of grass, shrubbery cuttings,
                               brush, leaves, tree limbs or trunks less than
                               four inches (4") in diameter and less than four
YARD WASTE OR LANDSCAPE WASTE: feet (4') in length, and other materials
                               accumulated as the result of the care of lawns,
                               shrubbery, vines and trees. (Ord. M-4-14, 2-3-
                               2014; amd. Ord. M-15-22, 4-18-2022)
 
5-2-3: FRANCHISE FOR WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL FROM RESIDENTIAL DWELLINGS:
   A.   Exclusive Franchise: The city shall enter into an exclusive franchise
agreement with no more than one waste disposal firm for the collection of solid
waste, recyclable materials, and yard waste for all single-family dwellings and
multiple-family dwellings with individual collection of waste and billing for
each dwelling unit within the building or complex. No person shall hire,
retain, use, or engage any waste disposal firm for the collection of solid
waste, recyclable materials, or yard waste from such residential dwellings,
other than the city's waste collection franchisee pursuant to this section. Use
of the city's waste collection franchisee shall not be mandatory for multiple-
family dwellings with unified collection and billing for all dwelling units
within the building or complex, or any commercial, office, or industrial
property. The city may negotiate, and include in its franchise agreement,
collection rates with its waste collection franchisee to be offered to
multiple-family dwellings with unified collection and billing, commercial,
office, and industrial properties on an optional basis.
   B.   Provisions Of Franchise: The franchise agreement with a waste disposal
firm, hereinafter, the "franchisee", referred to in subsection A of this
section shall include, at a minimum, the following provisions:
      1.   The initial term shall not exceed seven (7) years.
      2.   A requirement that the franchisee must offer and make available to
all of the customers it serves the collection and processing of recyclable
materials.
      3.   Direction as to where the franchisee must or must not dump or
dispose of the solid waste, recyclable materials, and yard waste it collects.
      4.   A requirement that the franchisee prepare and deliver to the city
monthly reports detailing the amounts of solid waste, recyclable materials, and
yard waste collected, for the purpose of maintaining adequate and sanitary
collection.
      5.   A rate schedule and service standards established by the city.
      6.   A requirement for the posting of either a performance bond with an
adequate surety to carry out the purposes of the franchise agreement or an
irrevocable letter of credit from a bank with sufficient capital assets to
ensure that the purposes of the franchise agreement will be carried out.
      7.   A requirement that all residential dwellings be served no less often
than once each week. (Ord. M-4-14, 2-3-2014; amd. Ord. M-15-22, 4-18-2022)
5-2-4: RECEPTACLES:
For the proper and economical separation and collection of the classes of waste
hereinbefore defined as "garbage", "refuse", "recyclable materials" and "yard
waste", it shall be the duty of every owner, or the occupant of any building
where persons reside, board, lodge or conduct business of any kind whatsoever,
or where animal or vegetable food is prepared or served, to provide for the
building, and at all times to maintain in good order and repair, a separate
receptacle for all solid waste, yard waste, and recyclable materials of the
capacity, kind and number as prescribed by this chapter, as follows:
   A.   Houses, Stores, Apartments: For each house or building, including store
buildings, other than multiple-family dwellings, one or more receptacles for
solid waste and one or more receptacles for recyclable materials of a capacity
sufficient to contain the accumulations of such waste for a period of at least
seven (7) days. For every multiple-family dwelling, one of each such
receptacles for each floor, flat or apartment of the building.
   B.   Duty Of Occupant: It shall be the duty of each occupant to cause all
solid waste, recyclable materials, and yard waste produced to dispose of said
solid waste, recyclable materials, and yard waste in a sanitary manner and in
accordance with rules set forth by the department of public works.
   C.   Waste To Be Securely Stored: Solid waste and yard waste of every
character whatsoever shall be securely prepared or contained in such manner as
to prevent the blowing of the same by the wind and shall be deposited in the
receptacles for said materials.
   D.   Waste Containers: The city's waste collection franchisee shall furnish
single-family dwellings, with one wheeled cart of thirty five (35), sixty five
(65) or ninety five (95) gallon capacity for the purpose of storing solid
waste. The city's waste collection franchisee shall furnish multiple-family
dwellings with up to four (4) units with one wheeled cart of thirty five (35),
sixty five (65) or ninety five (95) gallon capacity per dwelling unit for the
purpose of storing solid waste. There is no limit on the number of carts that
may be used by residences serviced under the city's waste collection franchise
agreement. Residents who request more than one solid waste cart may lease
additional carts from the franchisee for a monthly fee. Additional cart leases
will be billed directly from the franchisee to the resident.
   E.   Receptacles For Recyclable Materials: The city's waste collection
franchisee shall furnish single-family dwellings, with one wheeled cart of
thirty five (35), sixty five (65) or ninety five (95) gallon capacity for the
purpose to store and collect recyclable materials. The city's waste collection
franchisee shall furnish multiple-family dwellings with up to four (4) units,
with one wheeled cart of thirty five (35), sixty five (65) or ninety five (95)
gallon capacity per dwelling unit for the purpose to store and collect
recyclable materials. Said carts will be made of waterproof material with
handles, wheels, and a tightfitted lid and shall be no larger than thirty five
(35), sixty five (65), or ninety five (95) gallons in capacity. Recyclable
materials must be in appropriate carts for collections. There is no limit on
the number of carts that may be used by residences serviced under the city's
waste collection franchise agreement. Residents who request more than one cart
for recyclable materials may lease additional carts through the franchisee for
a monthly fee. Additional cart leases will be billed directly from franchisee
to resident. (Ord. M-4-14, 2-3-2014)
5-2-5: BURNING TRASH, LEAVES, COMBUSTIBLE MATTER:
No person shall hereafter burn or set fire to, or cause to be burned or set
fire to, any garbage, refuse, yard waste, or any combustible material
whatsoever, within the city, unless such material is burned in an incinerator
consistent with state legal guidelines, provided, however, that this shall not
apply to the noncommercial cooking of food in outdoor fireplaces or grills, nor
to the use of a UL listed and approved outdoor wood burning fireplace or fire
pit. (Ord. M-4-14, 2-3-2014)
5-2-6: GARBAGE OF COMMERCIAL FIRMS:
There shall be no collection of garbage, refuse, recyclable materials, or yard
waste, from any commercial, industrial or business establishments by the city
or its franchisee; however, all commercial, industrial and business
establishments shall make private arrangements for the collection and disposal
of all garbage, refuse, recyclable materials, and yard waste, in a prompt and
sanitary manner. All containers for solid waste, recyclable materials, and yard
waste shall have and use close fitting metal or plastic covers, unless the
private collectors require such other covers for recyclable materials and yard
waste.
The property owner or his agent must take appropriate action to immediately
cause the container to be emptied of its contents when full. It shall be the
responsibility of the property owner to maintain the container area free of
odors, scattered debris, overflow, and all other nuisances.
If the property owner is notified that the container upon his property is in
violation of any of the foregoing offenses, the property owner shall within
twelve (12) hours of notification cause the offense to be remedied or shall be
in violation of this section. (Ord. M-4-14, 2-3-2014)
5-2-7: RESIDENTIAL WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL CHARGE:
   A.   Charge Levied: There is hereby levied against each residential account
within the city a quarterly charge for the collection and disposal of
residential solid waste, recyclable materials, and yard waste in the amounts
set forth in the city's waste collection franchise agreement. This charge shall
be levied against and collected from each residential account whether or not
the occupants of the dwelling corresponding to the account actually generate or
put out for disposal any solid waste, recyclable materials, or yard waste; the
above charge being a service charge for the service rendered. Such sum shall be
billed and payable no more than four (4) times per year. The city's waste
collection franchisee will be responsible for billing and collecting charges
from all accounts that it services pursuant to the franchise agreement. The
waste collection franchisee will be permitted to add or increase surcharges and
fees to residential accounts only as explicitly set forth in its waste
collection franchise agreement with the city.
   B.   Payment Terms: The rates charged by the city's waste collection
franchisee for the collection and disposal of residential solid waste,
recyclable materials, and yard waste shall be paid within twenty-one (21) days
after mailing of bills for the same and in no event later than the 14th day of
the last month of each three-month billing cycle. In the event that such
charges are not paid within twenty-one (21) days after the mailing of bills or
on or after the fifteenth day of the last month of a three (3)-month billing
cycles, a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount of the billed charges
shall be added to the same and payable from the residential account. (Ord. M-4-
14, 2-3-2014; amd. Ord. M-15-22, 4-18-2022)
5-2-8: PLACEMENT OF RECEPTACLES FOR COLLECTION:
   A.   Solid waste, recyclable materials, or yard waste in the proper
receptacles, containers or bags of same, shall be placed on the street, parkway
or alley, if garbage collections are made from the alley, no later than six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the day designated for the collection of garbage,
refuse, waste, recyclable materials and yard waste, and in no case before four
o'clock (4:00) P.M. on the preceding evening.
   B.   On days other than collection days, as described above, all such solid
waste, recyclable materials, yard waste in the proper receptacles, containers
or bags of same, shall be kept in the garage or in a reasonable location within
the side or rear yard of any lot; no such receptacle, container or bag shall be
stored or maintained within the front yard area of any lot. (Ord. M-4-14, 2-3-
2014)
5-2-9: YARD WASTE COLLECTIONS:
   A.   Residential Yard Waste Collection Program: In order to participate in
the city's residential yard waste collection program, all yard waste must be
placed in either: 1) a thirty two (32) gallon or less paper biodegradable bag
or 2) a metal or rigid plastic container marked with a two foot (2') high red
"X" is required, and said bag or container must be set out on the scheduled day
of collection set by the city. Tree branches and brush not placed in the
approved bag or container shall be cut and tied in a bundle to no more than
four feet (4') in length, two feet (2') in diameter, shall not obstruct any
public way, and shall not exceed fifty (50) pounds in weight.
   B.   Branch Collection Program:
      1.   Establishment: There is hereby established an unbundled branch
collection program by the city for all dwellings. Vacant residential properties
are not included in this program. The program shall permit residents to set out
branches in the parkway adjacent to streets under the jurisdiction and
maintenance of the city subject to the following conditions and exceptions:
         a.   Only branches from trees and bushes (up to 6 inches in diameter
at the cut end) will be eligible for pick up. Branches can be any length, but
ends must be cleanly cut with no attached root systems.
         b.   Items such as logs larger than six inches (6") in diameter,
wooden fence pieces, old firewood logs, branches with nails, spikes or hooks,
construction wood or other materials, paneling, wooden doors or tree and bush
stumps cannot be mulched by city equipment. These materials will be left on
parkways and residents will be responsible for their disposal.
         c.   Branches must be neatly stacked in the parkway with cut ends
pointing to the curb. Branches may be as long and as large as possible. If long
branches will block the sidewalk, they can be placed diagonally on the parkway
or in the front yard close to the sidewalk. Branches shall never be placed in
the curb line or block the public sidewalk.
         d.   Branches shall be placed for pick up no sooner than seven (7)
days prior to the scheduled collection and before seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on
the day of collection.
      2.   Collection May Be Restricted: At the discretion of the director of
public works, or his duly authorized representative, special instructions may
be given to residents pertaining to the collection if the safety and health of
the general public is threatened or operating conditions require deviation from
the posted plan.
      3.   Enforcement; Penalty: It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit
branches on any public parkway not located within the above established
collection area or for any person within the above established collection area
to violate any of the provisions set forth in this section. Any person
violating any of the provisions of this subsection shall be subject to a fine
as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   C.   Leaf Collection Program:
      1.   Establishment: There is hereby established a leaf collection program
for all single-family and multiple-family dwellings by the city. The program
shall permit residents to deposit leaves in streets under the jurisdiction and
maintenance of the city subject to the following conditions and exceptions:
         a.   Leaves shall be placed in continuous rows, not piles, on the
pavement adjacent to but one foot (1') away from the curb.
         b.   Leaves shall be deposited after twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on
the day preceding collection and before seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on the day of
collection.
         c.   For the purpose of facilitating the collection of leaves, the
director of public works is authorized to post temporary signs designating the
days of the week, hours of the day and the portion of the street in which the
parking of any vehicle is prohibited. It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle
upon any street or portion thereof during the time indicated on such temporary
signs until the leaves are removed for that street or portion thereof.
         d.   Only leaves shall be placed in the street. Foreign material,
including, but not limited to, grass, branches, metal, domestic waste and
recyclable materials shall not be placed in the street. Leaf piles containing
any foreign material will not be collected.
         e.   Residents are prohibited from depositing leaves on the pavements
of major streets as follows:
Algonquin Road
Ballard Road
Busse Highway
Central Road
East River Road
Elmhurst Road
Golf Road
Higgins Road
Joseph Schwab Road
Lee Street
Mannheim Road
Mt. Prospect Road
Northwest Highway
Oakton Street
Potter Road
Rand Road
River Road
Thacker/Dempster Street
Touhy Avenue
Wolf Road
Residents whose homes abut the aforementioned roads may place their leaves on
the parkway as close to the street as possible but in no event shall such
residents place their leaves on said streets.
      2.   Collection May Be Restricted: At the discretion of the director of
public works or his duly authorized representative, special instructions may be
given to residents pertaining to the collection if the safety and health of the
general public is threatened or operating conditions require deviation from the
posted plan.
      3.   Enforcement; Penalty: It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit
leaves on any public street not located within the above established collection
area or for any person within the established collection area to violate any of
the provisions set forth in this subsection. Any person violating any of the
provisions of this subsection shall be subject to a fine as provided in the
general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord.
M-4-14, 2-3-2014)
5-2-10: RESERVED:
(Ord. M-4-14, 2-3-2014)
5-2-11: DEPOSIT OF REFUSE; NUISANCE DECLARED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful and it is hereby declared to be a nuisance, for
any person to deposit, place, or dump in any manner, whatsoever, any refuse of
any kind, garbage, refuse, yard waste, concrete or other construction material,
or thing in or upon any sidewalk, street, alley, parkway, park, school, private
property, public place or any other city right of way whether or not a "No
Dumping" sign is posted on said property; provided, that this section shall not
apply to the deposit of material under a permit authorized by the city, or to
goods, wares, or merchandise deposited upon any street, sidewalk, alley or
other public place temporarily in the necessary course of trade and removed
therefrom within two (2) hours after being so deposited; nor to articles or
things deposited in or conducted into the city sewerage system through lawful
drains, in accordance with the provisions of this code relating thereto.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn or bury garbage or refuse
within the city.
   C.   It shall be unlawful and it is hereby declared to be a nuisance for any
person to allow or to permit any garbage can, cart, container or other
receptacle to remain upon the city streets or parkways after the collection of
solid waste, recyclable materials, or yard waste by a waste collection vehicle;
such garbage cans, carts, containers or other receptacles must be retrieved on
the day of pick up. It shall be unlawful and it is hereby declared to be a
nuisance for any person to place for collection solid waste, recyclable
materials, or yard waste, or any can, cart, container or other receptacle
containing same except as provided in section
5-2-8 of this chapter. In addition to any penalty prescribed for violation of
this section, any garbage can, cart, container or receptacle found by the city
authorities in violation hereof shall be confiscated and destroyed at the
property owner's expense, without reimbursement therefor.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or remove any waste of any
kind, including, but not limited to, garbage, refuse, recyclable materials, or
yard waste, in other persons' garbage cans, containers or other receptacles
containing same. (Ord. M-4-14, 2-3-2014)
5-2-12: RECYCLING PROGRAM:
   A.   Single-Family Dwellings and Multiple-Family Dwellings With Individual
Collection and Billing:
      1.   The city's waste collection franchisee shall collect and remove all
"recyclable materials" as defined in section
5-2-2 of this chapter, from those single-family dwellings and multiple- family
dwellings with individual collection of waste and billing for each dwelling
unit within the building or complex. The waste collection franchisee shall pick
up such recyclable materials without regard to quantity, provided that the
materials are properly placed for collection in city approved containers along
with their regular solid waste collection. The franchisee shall be responsible
for sorting and preparing such recyclable materials for sale and for
maintaining the recycling processing center.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to collect, obtain, possess or
pick up any recyclable materials placed for collection at any residential
dwelling participating in the city's recycling program, except the city's waste
collection franchisee.
   B.   Multiple-Family Dwellings:
      1.   Contractors who provide waste collection services for multiple-
family dwellings not included in subsection A of this section, shall institute
an on site recycling program, with collection of recyclable materials to be no
less than one pick up per week. Any contract for such service must specifically
provide that the private scavenger shall provide a recycling program which
meets the requirements of this chapter. Said program shall be instituted at the
earliest of the following occurrences:
         a.   The expiration date of the owner's current refuse collection
contract; or
         b.   Commencement of a new refuse collection contract.
The contractor shall collect and remove all "recyclable materials", as defined
in section
5-2-2 of this chapter, from those buildings not included in subsection A of
this section. The contractor shall pick up such recyclable materials without
regard to quantity, and without regard to owner's contract provisions,
providing that the materials are properly placed for collection in city
approved containers along with their regular garbage pick ups. The contractor
shall be responsible for sorting and preparing such recyclable materials for
sale and for maintaining the recycling processing center. For purposes of this
subsection B, "multiple-family buildings" shall include, but not be limited to,
condominiums, mobile home parks, townhouses and apartments; "owner", as applied
to condominiums, shall mean the board of directors of the condominium
association; "owner", as applied to townhouse developments which contain common
areas owned by a townhouse association, shall mean the board of directors of
the townhouse association.
      2.   Recyclable materials must be source separated from other solid waste
prior to collection for the purpose of recycling such materials. All recycling
collection methods shall be subject to the approval of the city manager and
director of public works.
      3.   All private waste collection firms desiring to receive a scavenger
license within the city must comply with all applicable federal, state, county
and local laws, ordinances, rules and regulations. As a condition of receiving,
renewing and maintaining a scavenger license within the city, each licensee or
applicant for such license shall:
         a.   Obtain all permits and licenses required by federal, state and
county laws, ordinances, rules and regulations and maintain the same in full
force and effect.
         b.   Submit to the city a list of the multiple-family buildings it
serves and the dates its current service contract with each building will
expire. Current license holders shall submit said list within thirty (30) days
of the adoption of this section. The list shall be submitted on a form to be
provided by the city.
         c.   Submit to the city a written description of the recycling program
it will offer to the multiple-family buildings it serves. Any licensee may
subcontract with a recycling service provider to meet this requirement. Current
license holders shall submit said written description within thirty (30) days
of the adoption of this section. Applicants for a scavenger license shall
submit said written description prior to receiving a license. Said written
description shall be part of and included in the license certification form.
         d.   Submit to the city a completed license certification form, which
form shall be provided by the city.
            (1)   The director of public works or his duly appointed designee
shall review and approve the license certification form submitted by a
scavenger. Approval shall be subject to the verification of the information
contained on said form. One or more inspections of the proposed processing
facility shall be a prerequisite to the issuance of the license.
            (2)   The information submitted on or as part of the license
certification form and on the list of the multiple-family buildings serviced
shall be considered proprietary information and shall not be made available to
the general public.
         e.   Submit to the city a written quarterly report to the director of
public works, summarizing activities conducted at multiple-family buildings in
the city between January 1 and March 31, on or before April 15 of each year;
activities between April 1 and June 30, on or before July 15 of each year;
activities between July 1 and September 30, on or before October 15 of each
year; and activities between October 1 and December 31, on or before January 15
of each year. Said quarterly report form shall be provided by the city.
Information submitted on or as part of the quarterly report shall be considered
proprietary information and shall not be made available to the general public
except in the form of statistics and/or volume totals for all multiple-family
buildings in the city; however, no specific information on individual licensees
shall be divulged. (Ord. M-4-14, 2-3-2014; amd. Ord. M-15-22, 4-18-2022)
5-2-13: COMPOSTING:
The purpose of this section is to promote the recycling of yard waste and food
residuals through composting, and to establish minimum standards for proper
compost maintenance.
   A.   All compost piles shall be maintained using approved composting
procedures that comply with the following requirements:
      1.   All compost piles shall be enclosed in a freestanding compost bin.
      2.   Compostable materials may be placed in a compost pile provided that
such materials are placed in such a manner as not to allow them to be
windblown.
      3.   The depositing of nonfood residual garbage, pet waste, meat scraps
or other materials that may attract animals or vermin to the compost pile or
which may give off an obnoxious odor shall be prohibited. Compost piles shall
be kept covered, except while turning.
      4.   The presence of rodents in or near a compost pile shall cause
department of community and economic development regulations and enforcement
under chapter 4 of this title.
   B.   A compost pile shall not be located less than twenty five feet (25')
from any neighboring dwelling unit, less than five feet (5') from any rear or
side lot line or within any required front yard as defined in the zoning code.
   C.   Each compost bin shall be no larger than three feet (3') to five feet
(5') wide and no taller than five feet (5') high. Construction of woven
galvanized wire, block, brick, prefabricated wooden bin, or other similar
material approved by the city, with sufficient openings to allow adequate air
movement. Self-contained, rotating, "barrel type" compost containers are
acceptable.
   D.   Every owner or operator shall be responsible for maintaining all
property under his control in accordance with the requirements of this section.
(Ord. M-4-14, 2-3-2014)
5-2-14: INFECTIOUS WASTES:
All handling of potentially infectious waste shall be in compliance with title
35, subtitle M, chapter I, subchapter G, part 1420 of the state of Illinois
environmental protection act of 1993. (Ord. M-4-14, 2-3-2014)
5-2-15: PENALTY:
Except as provided in subsections
5-2-9B and C of this chapter, any person violating subsection
5-2-11A of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for
each offense; violations of all other provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to a fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense; a separate offense of any or
all provisions of this chapter shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. M-4-14, 2-3-2014)
CHAPTER 3
NUISANCES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Nuisances Declared
5-3-2: Inspections
5-3-3: Liability For Maintenance
5-3-4: Summary Abatement
5-3-5: Penalties
5-3-1: NUISANCES DECLARED:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful and a nuisance for any person within the
limits of the City to violate any provision of this chapter as follows:
   A.   Odors: To so negligently conduct any business or use any premises as to
create such an offensive smell as may taint the air and render it unwholesome
or disagreeable to the neighborhood.
   B.   Animal Refuse Or Carcasses: To cause the carcass of any animal or any
animal or vegetable matter, slops, swill, suds, garbage, filth, stable
drippings or offal or noisome substance of any kind to be collected, deposited,
or to remain in any place in the City to the prejudice of others.
   C.   Garbage; Time Limit: For any person to permit any slops, swill,
garbage, stable drippings, offal, filth, refuse, animal or vegetable matter,
which is liable to become putrid or offensive or injurious to health, to remain
on any premises used or occupied by him, for a longer period than four (4)
hours at any one time.
   D.   Night Soil: To deposit any night soil, dead animal or other filthy,
offensive or noisome substance upon any lot, street, alley, park or other
place.
   E.   Polluting Water: To corrupt or render unwholesome or impure the water
of any drinking hydrant, spring, stream, pond or lake, to the injury or
prejudice of others.
   F.   Obstruction Of Highways: To obstruct or encroach upon any public
highway, private way, street, alley, common or landing place.
   G.   Offensive Businesses: To establish, maintain or carry on any offensive
business within the City, or within one mile of the limits thereof, without the
consent of the Mayor and City Council. (1956 Code)
   H.   Apiaries: It shall be unlawful to keep, harbor or maintain any bees or
to operate any apiaries for housing the same, except that bees may be kept and
used only for educational purposes under the following conditions:
      1.   Beehives are located no closer than two hundred fifty feet (250')
from a residence;
      2.   No more than four (4) beehives are kept and maintained; and
      3.   Beekeepers must register their beehive(s) with the Illinois
Department of Agriculture and provide proof of registration to the City. (Ord.
M-19-18, 9-17-2018)
   I.   Smoke: To allow or permit any dense smoke to come or be emitted from
any chimney, locomotive or engine, within the City; provided, however, that
chimneys for buildings used exclusively for private residences shall not be
deemed within the provisions of this section.
   J.   Wastepaper: Any person engaged in the business of sale of foodstuffs,
including ice cream, for consumption on or off the premises and served in paper
boxes, containers, dishes, wastepaper materials or containers of like substance
shall provide a receptacle within their premises for the disposal of such
wastepaper and shall not permit or allow any person to place, leave, throw or
scatter the wastepaper and refuse in or upon the streets, sidewalks or public
grounds abutting the premises; provided, however, that in case any paper or
wastepaper shall for any reason be scattered upon the streets, sidewalks or
public places, and emanating from the business, the same shall forthwith be
removed by the person in charge of the business. (1956 Code)
   K.   Inoperable Motor Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person to leave
an inoperable motor vehicle or parts thereof on public or private property, in
view of the general public, for a period of forty eight (48) hours or longer,
unless such place be the premises of a business duly authorized to deal with
junk motor vehicles. "Inoperable motor vehicle" shall mean any motor vehicle
from which, for a period of at least forty eight (48) hours or longer, the
engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise so
treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor
power, and shall not mean a motor vehicle which has been rendered temporarily
incapable of being driven under its own motor power in order to perform
ordinary service or repair operations. (Ord. M-4-89, 2-6-1989; amd. 2002 Code)
   L.   Bird Feeding: It shall be unlawful for any owner of any lot, place or
area within the City to allow, keep, maintain or permit upon any such lot,
place or area more than ten (10) pounds of bird feed at any time which is
available to birds. (Ord. M-27-76, 6-21-1976)
   M.   Offensive Lights: It shall be unlawful for any owner or tenant of real
estate within the City to permit lights to illuminate onto property owned by
another person in such a manner as to be offensive to the owner or a tenant or
to interfere with the same. (Ord. M-16-78, 6-5-1978)
   N.   Site Distance At Intersection: It shall be unlawful for any person to
allow bushes, shrubs or other plant material other than trees to grow to a
height in excess of twenty four inches (24") above the elevation of the
centerlines of intersection streets within a sixty foot (60') radius of the
intersecting centerlines of said streets. Trees may be maintained within said
area as long as there is no foliage within thirty six inches (36") as measured
from the ground to the lowest foliages. (Ord. M-31-78, 9-15-1978)
   O.   Use Of Equipment: It shall be unlawful for any person to use any pile
driver, shovel, hammer derrick, hoist tractor, roller or other mechanical
apparatus operated by fuel or electric power in building or construction
operations between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. on Monday through Saturday, and between the hours of six o'clock (6:
00) P.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. on Sundays and holidays, except for work
on public improvements and work of public service utilities, within six hundred
feet (600') of any building used for residential or hospital purposes. (Ord. M-
58-04, 10-4-2004)
   P.   Scavenger, Garbage, Refuse Or Recycling Trucks: Scavenger, garbage,
refuse, or recycling trucks shall not pick up garbage, scrap metal, or
recycling before seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. Monday through Saturday mornings or
before ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. on Sunday mornings. Upon application, the
Director of Community and Economic Development is hereby authorized, in his
discretion, to allow exceptions in such a manner as he may direct in writing.
(Ord. M-7-06, 3-20-2006)
   Q.   Mufflers: To operate a motor vehicle that: 1) is not equipped at all
times with a muffler upon the exhaust of the vehicle that is in good working
order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise, or 2) is
equipped with a cutout, bypass, or similar muffler elimination appliance.
   R.   Excessive Noise: To engage in any activity that causes any sound or
noise that violates section
6-2-7 of this Code.
   S.   Contagious or Infectious Disease: To engage in any activity that
promotes the spread of contagious or infectious diseases throughout the City,
including the maintenance of unsanitary conditions, hosting gatherings or
conducting business in violation of public health orders, and failure to
maintain or operate properties in compliance with health and safety codes,
regulations, ordinances, and orders.
   T.   Unscheduled stops of intercity buses, as defined in Section
7-3-5 .D. (Ord. M-32-14, 9-15-2014; amd. Ord. M-10-20, 8-3-2020; Ord. M-2-24,
1-16-2024)
5-3-2: INSPECTIONS:
For the purpose of carrying the foregoing provisions of this chapter into
effect, it shall be the duty of the Director of Community Development from time
to time to ascertain and cause all nuisances arising under this chapter to be
abated. In all cases when a nuisance shall be found in any building, or upon
any grounds or other premises which can be charged by assessment with the
expense of removal, notice shall be given to the owner or occupant of the
building or other premises, when known and can be found, to remove the
nuisance; and in case of his refusal or neglect to comply with such notice, the
Director of Community Development shall have the same abated and report the
expenses thereof to the City Council. (1956 Code ch. 21 art. V)
5-3-3: LIABILITY FOR MAINTENANCE:
In all cases arising under this chapter, where the expense of removing any
nuisance cannot be made chargeable to any real estate by assessment, notice may
be given to the author of the nuisance when known, to abate the same, in the
manner required by the foregoing section; and in case of his neglect or refusal
to abate the same in accordance with the notice, he shall be chargeable with
the expenses which may be incurred by the officer in the removal thereof, to be
collected by suit or otherwise, in addition to the fine or penalty. (1956 Code
ch. 21 art. V)
5-3-4: SUMMARY ABATEMENT:
Whenever any nuisance, whatever, shall be found on any premises, or elsewhere
within the City, contrary to this Code, the Director of Community Development
is hereby authorized, in his discretion, to cause the same to be summarily
abated in such a manner as he may direct 1
. (1956 Code ch. 2 art. V)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-60-2.
5-3-5: PENALTIES:
In addition to the foregoing liability and abatement provisions, any person
found guilty of violating, disobeying, or opposing the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this chapter, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not
less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) per violation. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist
shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. M-49-95, 11-6-1995)
CHAPTER 4
CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY ABATEMENT
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Violation
5-4-3: Administrative Procedure
5-4-4: Notice
5-4-5: Penalties And Remedies
5-4-6: Right To Sue
5-4-7: Injunctive Relief And Remedies
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise expressly stated or unless the context clearly indicates a
different intention, the following terms shall, for the purpose of this
chapter, have the following meanings:
CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY: Any premises to which the police department has
responded, at least three (3) times in any consecutive one hundred eighty (180)
day period, and on each response has found nuisance activity or multiple
instances of nuisance activity. In cases of prostitution, illegal possession,
delivery, or manufacture of or trafficking in controlled substances or cannabis
shall be three (3) times in any consecutive three hundred sixty five (365) day
period.
NUISANCE ACTIVITY: Behavior or conduct that meets the definition of:
   A.   Disorderly conduct, as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/26-
1;
   B.   Unlawful use of weapons, as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/24-1 et seq.;
   C.   Mob action, as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/25-1;
   D.   Discharge of firearm, as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
24-1.2 and 1.5;
   E.   Gambling, as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-1;
   F.   Possession, manufacture or delivery of controlled substances, as
defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 570/401 et seq.;
   G.   Assault, battery or offenses related thereto, as defined in 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-1 et seq.;
   H.   Sexual abuse or related offenses, as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/12-15 et seq.;
   I.   Public indecency, as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-9;
   J.   Prostitution, as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-14;
   K.   Criminal damage to property, as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-1 et seq.;
   L.   Possession, cultivation, manufacture or delivery of cannabis, as
defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/1 et seq.; and
   M.   Illegal consumption or possession of alcohol, as defined in 235
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq.
OWNER: Any person, agent, firm, association, partnership, corporation,
including a mortgagee in possession in whom is vested all or part of the legal
title to the premises, or all or part of the beneficial ownership and the right
to present use and enjoyment of the premises, or an occupant of that premises
or structures appurtenant thereto.
PERSON: Any individual, association, partnership, or corporation capable of
owning, leasing or otherwise controlling, whether by actual or constructive
possession thereof, the use of a premises within the city of Des Plaines.
PERSON IN CHARGE: Any person in actual or constructive possession of a
premises, including, but not limited to, an owner, person, lessee or occupant.
PREMISES: Any parcel of property and the building or structure, if any, which
is situated on the property, and any portion of the public way that is near the
parcel of property that is used in conjunction with the property for the
commission of nuisance activity. (Ord. M-33-07, 10-15-2007)
5-4-2: VIOLATION:
   A.   Any premises within the city, that becomes a chronic nuisance property
is in violation of this chapter and shall be subject to the rules and
regulations contained in this chapter.
   B.   Any person in charge who permits a premises within the city to become a
chronic nuisance property is in violation of this chapter and shall be subject
to the rules and regulations contained in this chapter. (Ord. M-33-07, 10-15-
2007)
5-4-3: ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE:
   A.   The police department shall keep an accurate record of all incidents of
alleged nuisance activity and the premises at which it allegedly occurred.
   B.   When two (2) or more incidents of alleged nuisance activity have
occurred at any given premises in the city, the chief of police shall review
the reports of those incidents and shall determine whether there is cause to
believe that the alleged nuisance activity occurred and whether there is cause
to believe that the nuisance activity occurred at the subject premises.
   C.   If the chief of police finds that there is cause to believe that
nuisance activity occurred and that there is cause to believe that it occurred
at the subject premises, the chief may then notify the owner that the subject
premises is in danger of being classified as a chronic nuisance property. The
notice shall contain:
      1.   The street address or legal description of the premises;
      2.   A concise description of the nuisance activity that has occurred at
this location;
      3.   A statement that further reports of nuisance activity occurring at
the premises shall result in the premises being classified as a chronic
nuisance property, subject to the regulations and remedies of this chapter.
      4.   A statement offering the owner an opportunity to propose a plan of
action, to the chief of police, that will abate the nuisance activity.
      5.   A demand that the owner respond to the chief of police within ten
(10) days to discuss the presence of nuisance activity on the premises.
   D.   If, after notification is made pursuant to subsection C of this
section, another incident of alleged nuisance activity occurs at the subject
premises, the chief of police shall determine whether there is cause to believe
that the alleged nuisance activity occurred and whether there is cause to
believe that it occurred at the subject premises.
   E.   If the chief of police finds that there is cause to believe that
nuisance activity occurred and that there is cause to believe that it occurred
at the subject premises, he shall then determine whether the premises is a
"chronic nuisance property" as defined by section
5-4-1 of this chapter.
   F.   Following a determination that the subject premises is a chronic
nuisance property, the chief of police shall notify the owner in writing that
the premises has been determined to be a chronic nuisance property. The notice
shall contain:
      1.   The street and address or legal description of the premises.
      2.   A statement that the premises is a chronic nuisance property
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
      3.   A concise description of the nuisance activity that supports this
determination.
      4.   A demand that the owner propose a course of action that will abate
the nuisance activity giving rise to this notification.
      5.   A demand that the owner respond to the chief of police within ten
(10) days.
   G.   If the owner does not respond in ten (10) days as requested by
subsection F of this section, or if the chief of police does not agree to the
proposed course of action submitted to abate the nuisance activity, the chief
of police shall request authorization for the city attorney to commence a legal
proceeding to abate the nuisance; provided, however, that if, prior to the
commencement of legal proceedings by the city pursuant to this chapter, a
person in charge stipulates with the chief of police that the person in charge
will pursue a course of action that the parties agree will abate the nuisance
activity, the chief of police may agree to postpone legal proceedings for a
period of not less than ten (10) days nor more than thirty (30) days; provided
further, however, that if the agreed course of action does not result in the
abatement of the nuisance activity, the city is not precluded or estopped from
commencing legal proceedings to abate the nuisance activity.
   H.   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from filing an action
for injunctive relief against a chronic nuisance property when such premises
constitutes an immediate threat and danger to the safety, health and welfare of
the surrounding neighborhood and residents of the city. (Ord. M-33-07, 10-15-
2007)
5-4-4: NOTICE:
   A.   A copy of the notice required by subsections
5-4-3C and F of this chapter shall be served either personally or by mailing a
copy of the notice by registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt
requested to each owner at his address as it appears in the records of the
county auditor. Additionally, a copy of the notice shall be served on the
occupants of the structure if that person is different than the owner. In the
event that notice is not possible as set forth above, a copy of the notice
shall be posted at the premises if ten (10) days have elapsed from the service
or mailing of the notice to the owner and no response or reply has been
received by the city from the owner or person in charge.
   B.   The failure of any person in charge to receive notice that the premises
is a chronic nuisance property shall not invalidate or otherwise affect the
proceedings under this chapter.
   C.   Concurrent with notification procedures set forth herein, the chief of
police shall send copies of the notice, as well as any other documentation
which supports legal proceedings, to the city attorney. (Ord. M-33-07, 10-15-
2007)
5-4-5: PENALTIES AND REMEDIES:
   A.   Any premises found to be a chronic nuisance property shall be closed
and secured against all use and occupancy for a period of not less than thirty
(30) days, but not more than one hundred eighty (180) days.
   B.   In determining the number of days to close the premises, if any, the
court may consider evidence of other conduct that has occurred on the premises,
including, but not limited to:
      1.   The disturbance to neighbors.
      2.   The recurrence of loud and obnoxious noises.
      3.   Repeated consumption of alcohol in public.
   C.   Any owner found guilty of violating the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to a fine as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each day that the owner had actual knowledge that the
premises was a chronic nuisance property.
   D.   In determining the civil penalty to impose, the court may consider any
of the following factors:
      1.   The actions or lack of action taken by the person in charge to
mitigate or correct the problem at the premises.
      2.   Whether the problem at the premises was repeated or continuous.
      3.   The magnitude or gravity of the problem.
      4.   The cooperation of the person in charge.
      5.   The cost of the city to investigate, correct, or attempt to correct
the problem.
   E.   In addition to the foregoing remedies, a court, in the proper exercise
of its equitable powers, may impose or grant any other sanction or remedy it
deems necessary and just. (Ord. M-33-07, 10-15-2007)
5-4-6: RIGHT TO SUE:
   A.   The city attorney is hereby authorized to file a cause of action in a
court of competent jurisdiction to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   In an action pursuant to this chapter, the city shall have the initial
burden of showing by a preponderance of the evidence that the premises is a
chronic nuisance property.
   C.   It is an affirmative defense to an action seeking the closure of
chronic nuisance property that the owner of the premises, at the time in
question, could not, in the exercise of reasonable care or diligence, determine
that the premises had become a public nuisance premises, or could not, in spite
of the exercise of reasonable care and diligence, control the nuisance activity
leading to the findings that the premises is a chronic nuisance property. (Ord.
M-33-07, 10-15-2007)
5-4-7: INJUNCTIVE RELIEF AND REMEDIES:
   A.   In the event that the chief of police determines that the premises is
an immediate threat to the public safety and welfare of the residents of the
city, the city may apply to the court for such interim relief. In such an
event, the city need not comply with the notification process set forth in
section
5-4-3 of this chapter; however, the city shall make a diligent effort to notify
the person in charge prior to any emergency court hearing.
   B.   In the event that the court finds the premises constitutes a "chronic
nuisance property" as defined in section
5-4-1 of this chapter, the court may order the remedy set forth in section
5-4-5 of this chapter. Additionally, the court may assess a civil fine, as
provided in section
5-4-5 of this chapter, in the event it finds that the person in charge had
knowledge of the nuisance activities at the subject premises and permitted the
nuisance activities to occur and/or continue.
   C.   The court may authorize the city to physically secure the premises
against use or occupancy, in the event the owner fails to do so within the time
specified by the court. In the event the city is authorized to secure the
premises, all costs incurred by the city to affect a closure shall be assessed
as a lien against the premises. If used herein, "costs" means those expenses
actually incurred by the city for physically securing the premises.
   D.   The city shall prepare a statement of the cost and shall thereafter
submit said statement to the court for its review. If no objection to the
statement, the court may order that a lien in said amount may be recorded
against the premises. (Ord. M-33-07, 10-15-2007)
CHAPTER 5
PLANTS AND WEEDS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Nuisance Declared
5-5-2: Prohibited Vegetation
5-5-3: Dutch Elm Disease
5-5-4: Allowable Height Of Weeds, Grass Or Plants
5-5-5: Removal; Posting; Notice
5-5-6: Notice To Repeat Violators
5-5-7: Abatement And Recovery Of Costs
5-5-8: Penalty
5-5-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur, or other weeds
of a like kind, found growing in any lot or tract of land in the city are
hereby declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be unlawful to permit any such
weeds to grow or remain on any such place. The owner or person in control of
any such lot or tract of land upon which such weeds are growing shall cut, pull
or otherwise destroy such weeds at least monthly between May 1 and October 1 of
each year. (Ord. M-20-11, 6-6-2011)
5-5-2: PROHIBITED VEGETATION:
   A.   Barberry Bushes: It is hereby declared to be a nuisance for any person
to plant or permit the growth of, upon any premises, the bush of the species of
tall, common or European barberry, further known as berberis vulgaris, and its
horticultural varieties within the city.
It is hereby made the duty of the director of community and economic
development to serve a notice, pursuant to the provisions of section
5-5-5 of this chapter, upon which said barberry bush may be found, requiring
them to remove, destroy and carry the same away and off the premises.
If the person so notified shall refuse or neglect to comply with the order
within the time and in the manner specified, the director of community and
economic development shall cause the abatement of the nuisance at the expense
of the party responsible for or permitting the same.
   B.   Marijuana Plants: The growing or permitting to grow, of the plant
commonly known as marijuana is hereby prohibited 1
. (Ord. M-20-11, 6-6-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  6-2-6 of this code.
5-5-3: DUTCH ELM DISEASE:
   A.   Inspection Of Trees: The director of public works and engineering, or
his designee, shall be and is hereby authorized to enter upon private property
for the purpose of inspecting elm trees and ascertaining whether said trees are
infected with verticillium wilt or a fungus disease of elms caused by graphium
ulmi, commonly known as dutch elm disease, or elm blight. The director of
public works and engineering, or his designee, is further authorized to remove
any portion of the tree for inspection or testing purposes. The presence of
brown streaking beneath the bark of an elm tree shall be deemed to indicate the
presence of dutch elm disease or verticillium wilt and shall be conclusive
evidence of the presence of dutch elm disease or verticillium wilt. If after
such inspection, the director of public works and engineering, or his designee,
determines that any tree inspected is so diseased, notice shall be given
pursuant to the provisions of subsection
5-5-5C of this chapter.
   B.   City May Remove Trees, Lien: In the event that the owner of the real
estate upon which a tree so diseased is located cannot be found, or if found
and notified as aforesaid but neglects or refuses to remove the tree as
directed by the director of public works and engineering, the city shall remove
same, and all costs and expenses in connection with such removal shall be the
responsibility of the owner of the real estate, in addition to any fine or
penalty which may be imposed. The cost and expense of removal shall be a lien
upon the real estate affected, superior to all other liens and encumbrances,
except tax liens. Written notice of the lien hereby imposed shall be filed in
the office of the recorder of deeds of Cook County. Upon payment of the cost
and expense by the owner of or persons interested in such property after notice
of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released by the city and the release
may be filed of record as in the case of filing notice of lien. (Ord. M-20-11,
6-6-2011)
5-5-4: ALLOWABLE HEIGHT OF WEEDS, GRASS OR PLANTS:
It is hereby declared to be a nuisance for any owner or person in control of
any lot or tract of land within the city to allow any weeds, grass or plants
other than trees, bushes, flowers, vegetables or other ornamental plants to
grow to a height in excess of six inches (6") on such lot or tract of land.
(Ord. M-20-11, 6-6-2011)
5-5-5: REMOVAL; POSTING; NOTICE:
The city shall post on the cable channel and the city's website, in April of
each year, the requirements of this chapter and shall also publish in April of
each year the requirements of this chapter in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city. All days for notice purposes shall be calendar
days. (Ord. M-1-12, 1-17-2012)
   A.   It shall be the duty of the director of community and economic
development, or his designee, to serve or cause to be served notice upon the
owner or occupant, by first class mail or posting the property with a door tag,
of any premises on which weeds or plants are permitted to grow in violation of
the provisions of this chapter, and to demand the abatement of such nuisance
within five (5) days.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the director of community and economic
development, or his designee, to serve or cause to be served notice upon the
owner or occupant, by first class mail or posting the property with a door tag,
of any premises on which barberry bushes are present to demand the abatement of
such nuisance within five (5) days.
   C.   It shall be the duty of the director of community and economic
development, or his designee, to serve or cause to be served a written notice
or send same by registered mail to the person to whom was sent the tax bill for
the general taxes for the last preceding year on the real estate upon which a
tree with dutch elm disease is located, that said tree, to avoid the spread of
the disease, shall be removed or otherwise destroyed by and at the expense of
the owner within thirty (30) days from the date of delivery or mailing of said
notice. This notice shall also contain the substance of 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-20-12, the substance of this section, and shall identify the
property by common description, and the tree or trees affected. (Ord. M-20-11,
6-6-2011)
5-5-6: NOTICE TO REPEAT VIOLATORS:
Any property owner or tenant who has been notified on one previous occasion in
one year, of violating any provision of this chapter, shall, upon a second
violation, be sent a letter, by first class mail, stating that for the balance
of the year, no further notice of violation under section
5-5-5 of this chapter shall be given. The letter shall state that for the
public health, safety, and welfare, the city shall be allowed to enter on the
premises without further notice and to cut the growth in excess of six inches
(6") at the property owner's or tenant's expense. (Ord. M-20-11, 6-6-2011)
5-5-7: ABATEMENT AND RECOVERY OF COSTS:
If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within five (5) days, the
director of community and economic development may proceed to abate such
nuisance, keeping an account of the expense of same. The city may record a lien
against the property, or take such other action(s) as the city manager deems
appropriate to recover the costs that the city has incurred to bring the
property into compliance with the provisions of this chapter, plus a twenty
five percent (25%) administrative fee, including, but not limited to, listing
the costs with the director of finance as a fine or fee due the city within the
meaning of section
15-7-8 of this code. (Ord. M-20-11, 6-6-2011)
5-5-8: PENALTY:
If a citation for a violation of any provision of this chapter is issued, any
person violating any provisions of this chapter may be fined as provided in the
general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed each day during or on which such violation continues and for each day
such nuisance continues unabated after ten (10) days from receipt of notice.
(Ord. M-20-11, 6-6-2011)
CHAPTER 6
AIR POLLUTION CONTROL
SECTION:
5-6-1: Definitions
5-6-2: Regulations And Restrictions
5-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
In the interpretation and enforcement of this chapter, the following
definitions shall be applied:
AIR POLLUTION: The escape or emission from stacks, chimneys, exhaust, vents,
ducts, openings, buildings, structures, premises, open fires, vehicles,
processes or any source whatsoever of any smoke, soot, fly ash, dust, dirt,
cinders, ashes, fumes, particulate, solid, liquid or gaseous matter or any
other material in such a manner or in such quantity or concentration as to
cause or which might tend to cause injury, annoyance, detriment or damage to
any person or which endangers or might tend to endanger the health, comfort,
safety or welfare of any person or as to cause, or which might tend to cause,
injury or damage to business or property.
ASHES: Includes cinders, fly ash or any other solid material resulting from
combustion and may include unburned combustibles.
CONSTRUCTION: Includes installation, alteration, construction, addition or
repair of any building, fuel burning, combustion and process equipment or
devices, furnaces and smoke prevention and air pollution control devices, and
without regard to whether a building permit is required in connection
therewith.
DUST: Particulate matter released into the air by natural forces, or by any
fuel burning, combustion or process equipment, or device, or by construction
work, or by mechanical or industrial processes, such as crushing, grinding,
milling, drilling, demolishing, shoveling, bagging, sweeping, covering,
conveying, transferring, transporting and the like.
FLY ASH: Particulate matter capable of being gasborne or airborne and
consisting essentially of fused ash and/or burned or unburned material.
FUEL: Includes any form of combustible matter: solid, liquid, vapor or gas.
FUEL BURNING, COMBUSTION OR PROCESSING EQUIPMENT OR DEVICE: Any furnace
incinerator, fuel burning equipment, refuse burning equipment, boiler,
apparatus, device, mechanism, fly ash collector, electrostatic precipitator,
smoke arresting or prevention equipment, stack, chimney, breeching or
structure, used for the burning of fuel or other combustible material, or for
the emission of products of combustion, or used i connection with any process
which generates heat and may emit products of combustion; and shall include
process furnaces, such as heat treating furnaces, byproduct coke plants, core
baking ovens, mixing kettles, cupolas, blast furnaces, open hearth furnaces,
heating and reheating furnaces, puddling furnaces, sintering plants, bessemer
converters, electric steel furnaces, ferrous foundries, nonferrous foundries,
kilns, stills, dryers, roasters, and equipment used in connection therewith,
and all other methods or forms of manufacturing, chemical, metallurgical or
mechanical processing which may emit, smoke or particulate, liquid, gaseous or
other matter.
FUMES: Gases, vapors or particulate matter that are of such character as to
cause atmospheric pollution.
INCINERATOR: Any device intended for or used for the destruction of garbage or
other combustible refuse or waste materials by burning.
INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINE: An engine in which combustion of gaseous, liquid or
pulverized solid fuel takes place within one or more cylinders.
NOXIOUS MATTER OR MATERIALS: Matter or material which is capable of causing
detrimental effects upon the physical or economic well being of individuals.
ODOROUS MATTER: Any matter or material that yields an odor which is offensive
in any way.
OPEN FIRE: Any fire from which the products of combustion are emitted directly
into the open air without passing through a stack or chimney.
PARTICULATE MATTER: Material other than gases or water which is suspended in or
discharged into the atmosphere in a finely divided form as a liquid or a solid.
PERSON: Means the plural as well as the singular, and includes individuals,
businesses, firms, corporations and partnerships.
PROCESS EQUIPMENT AND DEVICES: Includes all equipment or devices used in any
commercial or industrial operation and which is capable of causing air
pollution.
RINGELMANN CHART: That which is described in the United States bureau of mines
information circular 6888, and on which are illustrated graded shades of gray
for use in estimating the light obscuring capacity of smoke.
RINGELMANN NUMBER: The number appearing on the Ringelmann chart describing the
density or equivalent opacity of smoke emission. Where the density or opacity
of smoke as observed falls between two (2) consecutive Ringelmann numbers, the
lower Ringelmann number shall be considered the density or opacity of the smoke
observed.
SMOKE: Gaseous products particulate matter of colloidal dimensions and
entrained particulate matter of larger than colloidal dimensions which are the
result of combustion.
SMOKE UNIT: The number obtained when the opacity of smoke or particulate matter
expressed in Ringelmann number is multiplied by the time of emission expressed
in minutes. For the purpose of this calculation, a Ringelmann opacity reading
shall be made at least once per minute during the period of observation. Each
is then multiplied by the time in minutes during which it was observed. The
various products are then added together to give the total number of smoke
units observed during the entire period of observation.
SOOT: Consists of agglomerated particles composed essentially of carbonaceous
material.
STACK: A vertical conduit attached to a permanent structure.
TOXIC MATTER OR MATERIALS: Those materials which are capable of causing injury
to living organisms by chemical means when present in relatively small amounts.
VEHICLE: A self-propelled mechanism, such as a truck, machine, tractor, roller,
derrick, crane, trencher, portable hoisting engine or automobile or any
conveyance used for carrying persons or things. (Ord. M-11-69, 4-9-1969)
5-6-2: REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Open Fires: The open burning of any paper, garbage, refuse,
automobiles, waste, leaves, clippings or other combustible material is
prohibited with the exception of the following:
      1.   Fires set by a public official in the performance of an official
duty;
      2.   Fires used for private or public recreational purposes;
      3.   Fires in outdoor fireplaces designed for cooking food.
Provided, however, that no such fire referred to in subsections A1 and A2 of
this section shall be used as an incinerator or be permitted to become a
nuisance or a source of annoyance or discomfort to any person by reason of the
emission of smoke, fumes, fly ash, dust or soot as elsewhere prohibited by this
chapter.
   B.   Smoke, Windborne And Particulate Matter:
      1.   Dust, soot, ashes, dirt, fly ash and other materials susceptible to
becoming windborne shall not be handled, loaded, stored, transferred,
transported, placed, deposited, thrown, discarded or scattered without
reasonable precautions or measures, such as wetting down or covering said
materials, having been taken to minimize atmospheric pollution; nor shall any
building, structure or premises, open area, right of way, storage pile, yard,
drive, path, vessel or vehicle or construction, alteration, excavation,
demolition or wrecking operation involving or emitting such material be
maintained, performed or undertaken without the taking of such precautions.
      2.   Escape or emission from any source whatsoever of soot, smoke, dust,
gas, noxious odor, fly ash, vapor or other air contaminant or combinations
thereof in such quantity or in such manner as to be annoying to the community
or so as to endanger or be detrimental the health, safety, comfort or well
being of its inhabitants, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and is
prohibited.
      3.   No person owning or in charge of any fuel burning combustion or
process equipment or device shall cause, permit or allow the emission into the
atmosphere from any single such source of particulate matter which averages in
excess of thirty-five hundredths (0.35) grains per cubic foot of gas corrected
in volume to a temperature of sixty degrees Fahrenheit (60°F) and a pressure of
thirty inches (30") of mercury.
      4.   Any boiler or furnace, other than one used for heating or hot water
purposes in a single-family residence, equipped with a pulverized coal burner
or spreader stoker shall be equipped with a collector capable of keeping
particulate emission within the limits specified by this chapter.
      5.   Any cupola, kiln furnace or other equipment, other than that used
for heating or hot water purposes in a single-family residence, capable of
emitting particles into the atmosphere, shall be equipped with suitable dust
collectors, capable of keeping emission of particulate matter within the limits
specified in this chapter.
      6.   A regular inspection and maintenance schedule for al particle
collectors which discharge their effluent into the open air shall be set up by
the owners or operators of such collectors to ensure that they function
properly, and a written record thereof shall be maintained in and shall be made
available for inspection by the city representative whenever requested. This
regulation applies to existing as well as to new equipment.
   C.   Combustion Products:
      1.   Emission from any source of smoke or particulate matter of an
opacity greater than no. 2 on the Ringelmann chart is prohibited at all times
except as hereinafter specified;
      2.   Emission of smoke or particulate matter of an opacity greater than
no. 1 on the Ringelmann chart from domestic installations for heating and hot
water in single-family residences is prohibited at all times;
      3.   The emission of more than fifteen (15) smoke units per hour from any
single source of combustion is prohibited except that once during any six (6)
hour period, up to thirty (30) additional smoke units may be emitted during the
course of blowing soot or while building a new fire or cleaning a fire;
      4.   Except from domestic installations for heating and hot water in
single-family residences, smoke of an opacity equal to Ringelmann no. 3 may be
emitted from any single source for up to four (4) minutes once during any six
(6) hour period, but only during the course of building a new fire, cleaning a
fire or blowing soot. (Ord. M-11-69, 4-9-1969; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 7
ALARM SYSTEMS
SECTION:
5-7-1: Definitions
5-7-2: Receiving Station Alarm Systems
5-7-3: Central Station Alarm Systems
5-7-4: Local Alarm Systems
5-7-5: Inspections
5-7-6: Automatic Dialing Devices Prohibited
5-7-7: False Alarms
5-7-8: Penalties
5-7-9: Limited Liability Of City
5-7-10: Schedule Of Fees
5-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
ALARM SYSTEM: Any assembly of equipment, mechanical, electrical, or otherwise,
arranged to signal the occurrence of: a) any illegal activity, fire or other
emergency situation requiring urgent attention and to which police or fire
personnel are expected to respond; or b) a "trouble" situation.
AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICE: Any alarm device which automatically sends a recorded
signal, warning or voice alarm, by regular telephone line, directly to the Des
Plaines police department's or fire department's designated dispatch center,
upon detection of illegal activity, fire or other emergency situation.
CENTRAL STATION: Any independent location other than the Des Plaines police
department's or fire department's designated dispatch centers, whereon persons
monitor signals from alarm systems which are connected to receiving equipment
located at said central station.
FALSE ALARM: An electronic, radio, or other type of signal transmitted by an
alarm system to a central station or a receiving station that notifies the Des
Plaines police department or fire department, and to which the police
department or fire department responds, and which indicates the existence of an
emergency situation or a system "trouble" condition when in fact no emergency
situation exists. Examples of false alarms include, but are not limited to,
alarms due to entry of an authorized person into the structure activating a
burglar alarm, cooking smoke activating a smoke detector, an accidental press
of a medic alert push button, or a closed sprinkler valve.
HE/HIS/HIM: These terms shall refer to both genders as well as to the neutral
and the plural.
LOCAL ALARM: Any alarm system which causes an audible sound on the protected
premises, whether or not connected to any central or receiving station.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation or unit of local
government.
PROTECTED PREMISES: The contiguous area protected by a single alarm system and
under common ownership and use.
RECEIVING STATION: The Des Plaines fire department's designated dispatch center
that receives alarm signals from a protected premises.
REGISTRANT: The person in whose name a registration for an alarm system is
submitted to the city. (Ord. M-10-15, 5-4-2015)
5-7-2: RECEIVING STATION ALARM SYSTEMS:
   A.   Registration Required: No person shall be allowed to have an alarm
system connection to the city's receiving station from any building, place or
premises within the city without having first completed the required
registration application and paying the associated registration fee.
   B.   Application: Persons seeking to register an alarm system connection
shall file a written application on a form provided by the city. The
registration application shall be subject to the approval of the fire chief or
his designee. Said application shall contain a provision that the city shall
not be liable for any failure of service or any damages that might result from
the installation or operation of the alarm system. All applicants must agree to
indemnify the city for all claims, demands, judgments, liability costs and
expenses that may arise in any way as a result of the alarm connection and
service. All applicants must certify that alarm system maintenance will be
provided twenty four (24) hours per day, seven (7) days per week.
   C.   Registration Term: Alarm system registration certificates will be
issued to registrants annually for a period commencing on January 1 and
expiring on December 31. All applications for alarm system registration and
renewals thereof must be filed with the city no later than December 15 of each
year.
   D.   Fees: A registration fee for alarm systems must be paid annually in the
amount set forth in section
5-7-10 of this chapter. Applicants for new alarm system connections shall pay,
prior to connection to the receiving station, the prorated registration fee
based on the portion of the registration year remaining at the time the
registration application is received by the city.
   E.   Change Of Ownership: A change of ownership of a protected premises
shall be cause for a new registration application to be filed with the city and
payment of all necessary fees as provided in section
5-7-10 of this chapter. The registration fee for partial year ownership shall
be prorated based on the portion of the registration year remaining at the time
the registration application is received by the city.
   F.   Maintenance: The failure of a subscriber to a receiving station
connection to properly maintain his alarm system shall be cause for a
revocation of the subscriber's registration and disconnection of his alarm
system from the receiving station. For alarms mandated to be connected by
title 10, chapter 3 of this code (the city's fire code), this subsection on
disconnection shall not apply.
   G.   Fee Exemption: The following types of registrants are exempt from
payment of alarm system fees as set forth in section
5-7-10 of this chapter:
      1.   All governmental bodies, including agencies, departments, and
political subdivisions of the state of Illinois or the United States Of
America; and
      2.   Not for profit schools and not for profit daycare facilities.
   H.   Alarm Systems To Be Connected To The Receiving Station: Any alarm
system that is to be connected to the receiving station shall be connected by a
city approved and designated radio network. (Ord. M-10-15, 5-4-2015)
5-7-3: CENTRAL STATION ALARM SYSTEMS:
   A.   System Defined: A central station alarm is an alarm system which relays
the signal to a private person or company, either within or without the
corporate boundaries of the city, which provides watchman or security service,
or which provides a service to contact police, fire, emergency or other
personnel of the city. For approval of registration for a central station alarm
system under subsection B of this section, the entity receiving the alarm
signal must be a UL approved facility.
   B.   Registration Required: No person shall install, have or update a
central station alarm system without first having completed the required
registration application and paying the associated registration fee pursuant to
section
5-7-10 of this chapter.
   C.   Fee Exemption: The following types of registrants are exempt from
payment of central station alarm system fees as set forth in section
5-7-10 of this chapter:
      1.   All governmental bodies, including agencies, departments, and
political subdivisions of the state of Illinois or the United States Of
America; and
      2.   Not for profit schools and not for profit daycare facilities. (Ord.
M-10-15, 5-4-2015)
5-7-4: LOCAL ALARM SYSTEMS:
   A.   Registration Required: No person shall be allowed to install, have, or
update a local alarm system on any protected premises within the city without
first having completed the required registration application and paying the
associated registration fee pursuant to section
5-7-10 of this chapter.
   B.   System Allowed: A protected premises may have a local alarm system in
addition to a central station or a receiving station alarm system.
   C.   Sound; Maintenance: A local alarm shall not make a sound similar to
that of a siren on emergency vehicles or a community warning system. Owners,
occupants, or registrants for protected premises with such local alarms will be
responsible to maintain said alarms and to turn any audible signal off at the
request of the police department or the fire department, as appropriate. The
continued sounding of a local alarm for more than fifteen (15) minutes after
activation constitutes a violation of this chapter and the owners, occupants,
or registrant of the protected premises may be jointly and severally liable for
fines as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   D.   Fee Exemption: The following types of registrants are exempt from
payment of local alarm system fees as set forth in section
5-7-10 of this chapter:
      1.   All governmental bodies, including agencies, departments, and
political subdivisions of the state of Illinois or the United States Of
America; and
      2.   Not for profit schools and not for profit daycare facilities. (Ord.
M-10-15, 5-4-2015)
5-7-5: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Standards And Inspections: Household burglar alarm systems installed
shall utilize equipment which shall be substantially equivalent to or exceed
the minimum applicable UL standard 1023 (ANSI 2.4-1972) "household burglar
alarm system units", fire and smoke detection systems shall be substantially
equivalent to or exceed the minimum applicable UL standard testing procedure UL
217, the installation shall conform to NFPA standards or better, and such
equipment shall be installed in a safe, reliable and workmanlike manner.
   B.   Inspection Of Alarm Devices And Businesses: For the purpose of
enforcing the provisions of this chapter, the police or fire chief shall have
the authority, at reasonable times and upon reasonable verbal notice, to enter
any premises in the city in or upon which alarm systems subject to this chapter
are located, for the sole purpose of inspecting the installation or ongoing use
and maintenance of such alarm systems. Refusal of consent for such inspection
by the subscriber, owner, lessee or other person responsible for the protected
premises or alarm system may be cause for the revocation of the applicable
alarm system registration or business registration or license. (Ord. M-10-15,
5-4-2015)
5-7-6: AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICES PROHIBITED:
No automatic dialing device shall be connected to the receiving station or the
police dispatching facility. (Ord. M-10-15, 5-4-2015)
5-7-7: FALSE ALARMS:
   A.   Responsibility: Each person who has registered an alarm system with the
city shall be strictly liable for any false alarm transmitted by the device
which the registrant operates or maintains.
   B.   Exceptions: For purposes of this section, false alarms arising from the
following conditions shall not subject the registrant to penalty:
      1.   Attempted or actual criminal activity or forcible or unauthorized
entry;
      2.   An actual fire, medical emergency, or other emergency;
      3.   Structural damage to the protected premises due to earthquake, high
winds, lightning, flooding caused by the overflow of natural drainage, or other
extreme, violent conditions of nature, or similar manmade damage not caused by
the registrant, property owner, occupant, or their respective agents,
employees, lessees, or household members, as the case may be;
      4.   Electrical, telephone, internet, or alarm-radio service
interruption;
      5.   Alarm system malfunction within thirty (30) days of a new
installation or modification of an existing system; provided, that the chief of
police or fire department, or his designee, has received prior written notice
of the work performed, appropriate permits have been issued, and all reasonable
efforts are being made by the registrant to prevent further false alarms;
      6.   Sudden surge or drop in water pressure in city water mains;
      7.   Malicious false alarm caused by a person other than the registrant,
property owner, occupant, or their respective agents, employees, or household
members, as the case may be;
      8.   System malfunction where the registrant has made all reasonable
efforts to repair the problem causing the system malfunction false alarm, as
determined by the chief of police or fire chief, or his designee; and
      9.   Any cause at a facility owned or operated by:
         a.   Any governmental body, including agencies, departments, and
political subdivisions of the state of Illinois or the United States Of
America; or
         b.   Any not for profit school or not for profit daycare facility.
(Ord. M-10-15, 5-4-2015)
5-7-8: PENALTIES:
   A.   Late Penalty: A penalty in the amount of twenty five percent (25%) of
the applicable registration fee will be applied when payment for an annual
registration renewal is submitted more than thirty (30) days following the
payment due date noted on the renewal notice provided by the city to the
registrant. Failure to submit payment for a registration renewal within sixty
(60) days after the due date shall be considered a failure to register the
alarm system, and will constitute a violation of this chapter. A penalty in the
amount of twenty five percent (25%) of the applicable false alarm penalty will
be applied when payment for a false alarm is submitted more than thirty (30)
days following the payment due date noted on the false alarm invoice provided
by the city to the registrant.
   B.   General Penalty: In addition to any fees, penalties, or charges
prescribed by this chapter, any registrant convicted of a violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter may be fined as provided in the general penalty
in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. All remedies provided shall be cumulative
and the use of one or more remedies by the city shall not bar the use of any
other remedy. (Ord. M-10-15, 5-4-2015)
5-7-9: LIMITED LIABILITY OF CITY:
   A.   The city assumes no liability for any defects in operation of alarm
systems, nor for any failure or neglect to respond appropriately upon receipt
of an alarm from such a source, nor for the failure or neglect of any person in
connection with the installation and operation of equipment, the transmission
of alarm signals and prerecorded alarm messages or the relaying of such signals
and messages.
   B.   Deactivation and/or reactivation of an alarm system shall be the
responsibility of the registrant. The registrant shall be responsible for
notifying the city when the alarm system is restored to service, if
appropriate. Neither the city nor its employees, agents, officers, nor elected
and appointed officials shall be liable for damage or loss due to disconnecting
of alarms which are in violation of this chapter, and shall not be responsible
for reconnection or reactivation of any alarm disconnected or deactivated by
police or fire department personnel in attempting to determine the reason for
and/or validity of an alarm transmission. Disconnection, deactivation, or
reactivation shall be the sole responsibility of the registrant. (Ord. M-10-15,
5-4-2015)
5-7-10: SCHEDULE OF FEES:
 
Section   Fee Description                                        Fee
5-7-2D, E Receiving station alarms - registration fee            $125.00
5-7-3B    Central station alarms - registration fee              15.00
5-7-4A    Local alarm - registration fee                         15.00
          False alarm penalties (both police department and fire  
          department false alarms):
          Number Of Occurrences                                  Penalty Per
          Per Calendar Year                                      Occurrence
5-7-7A        0 - 2                                              $0.00
              3 - 4                                              100.00
            5 - 6                                              250.00
              7 - 8                                              500.00
              9+                                                 750.00
 
(Ord. M-20-15, 11-2-2015)
CHAPTER 8
MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATIONS
SECTION:
5-8-1: Public Safety Impacts
5-8-2: Impact Fee Imposed
5-8-3: Use Of Impact Fee
5-8-4: Review Of Impact Fee
5-8-1: PUBLIC SAFETY IMPACTS:
The city hereby recognizes and declares that the operation of medical cannabis
dispensing organizations within the city will require the city to perform
additional police protection services to prevent and respond to potential
impacts on the public health, safety, and welfare, including, without
limitation, determining whether such organizations are being lawfully operated
and whether qualifying patients and registered caregivers are complying with
applicable laws, which prohibit, among other offenses: a) unlawful consumption
of medical cannabis; b) operation of certain vehicles under the influence of
medical cannabis; c) disorderly conduct; and d) violations of state law and
municipal ordinances. These additional police protection services will cause
the city to incur increased costs in the approximate amount of fifteen thousand
dollars ($15,000.00) per year per cannabis dispensing organization located
within the city, which amount is specifically and uniquely attributable to each
medical cannabis dispensing organization. (Ord. M-73-14, 12-1-2014)
5-8-2: IMPACT FEE IMPOSED:
The city hereby imposes an annual medical cannabis dispensing organization
impact fee in the amount of fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) on each
medical cannabis dispensing organization located within the city. This medical
cannabis dispensing organization impact fee must be paid each year by each
medical cannabis dispensing organization located within the city prior to the
issuance by the city of a business registration certificate for the medical
cannabis dispensing organization pursuant to
title 4, chapter 1 of this code. No business registration certificate for any
medical cannabis dispensing organization will be issued by the city prior to
payment of the then applicable medical cannabis organization impact fee. (Ord.
M-73-14, 12-1-2014)
5-8-3: USE OF IMPACT FEE:
All medical cannabis dispensing organization impact fees collected by the city
will be deposited into the police department fund and will be used for the
purpose of defraying the cost of providing and performing police protection
services attributable to the operation of medical cannabis dispensing
organizations within the city. (Ord. M-73-14, 12-1-2014)
5-8-4: REVIEW OF IMPACT FEE:
At least once every two (2) years after December 1, 2014, being the effective
date of this chapter, the city manager and the chief of police must prepare a
report to the city council that: a) identifies the cost of the police
protection services provided and performed by the city that are attributable to
the operation of medical cannabis dispensing organizations within the city; and
b) recommends any adjustment to the amount of the medical cannabis dispensing
organization impact fee imposed by section
5-8-2 of this chapter. (Ord. M-73-14, 12-1-2014)
CHAPTER 9
SALE OF ILLICIT THC PRODUCTS AND KRATOM PROHIBITED
SECTION:
5-9-1: Definitions
5-9-2: Sale Of Illicit THC Products And Kratom Prohibited
5-9-3: Penalties
5-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following terms have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section unless different meanings are plainly
indicated by the context:
ILLICIT THC PRODUCT: Any product, material, compound, isomer, acid, salt,
mixture, or preparation:
   (a)   Used or intended for human consumption;
   (b)   That is not made, manufactured, sold, given away, bartered, exchanged,
distributed, furnished, marketed, advertised, or otherwise held out for sale by
cannabis business establishments duly licensed under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Program Act (410 ILCS 130/1, et seq.) or the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705/1-1, et seq.); and
   (c)   That contains: (1) any amount of synthesized tetrahydrocannabinol
(THC) of any kind, inclusive of acid forms, regardless of name, and including
but not limited to THC-O, delta-8 tetrahydrocannabinol, and delta-10
tetrahydrocannabinol, (2) a total delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol content
concentration level in excess of 0.3% on a dry weight basis, (3) a total delta-
9 tetrahydrocannabinol content in excess of 0.5 milligrams per labeled serving
or individual unit or 2.5 milligrams per package regardless of the number of
labeled servings or individual units therein, or (4) kratom, as that term is
defined in Section 5(a) of the Illinois Kratom Control Act, 720 ILCS 642/5(a),
as may be amended.
KRATOM: Any parts of the plant mitragyna speciosa, whether growing or not, and
any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of that
plant, including but not limited to mitragynine and 7-hydroxymitragynine.
SYNTHESIZED THC: Tetrahydrocannabinol synthesized in a laboratory or by
industry using directed or biosynthetic chemistry rather than traditional food
preparation techniques such as heating or extracting.
TOTAL DELTA-9 THC CONTENT: The value determined after the process of
decarboxylation, or the application of a conversion factor if the testing
methodology does not include decarboxylation, that expressed the potential
total delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol content derived from the sum of the THC and
THCA content and reported on a dry weight basis, to be calculated either by
using a chromatograph technique using heat, such as gaschromatography, through
which THCA is converted from its acid form to its neutral form, or by using a
liquid chromatograph technique, which keeps the THCA intact, and using the
following conversion: [Total THC = (0.877 x THCA) + THC] which calculates the
potential total THC in a given sample. (Ord. M-8-24, 5-6-2024; Ord. -, 6-3-
2024)
5-9-2: SALE OF ILLICIT THC PRODUCTS AND KRATOM PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any retail establishment to sell, offer for sale, give
away, or deliver any illicit THC product or kratom. (Ord. M-8-24, 5-6-2024;
Ord. -, 6-3-2024)
5-9-3: PENALTIES:
Any person and/or retail business whose agent or employee violates this chapter
shall be fined not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) and not more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and every day on which
a violation occurs or continues shall be considered a separate and distinct
offense. In addition, a violation of this prohibition shall be considered a
nuisance in fact and a clear and present danger to the public health, safety,
or general welfare, constituting grounds for suspension or revocation of a
business license pursuant to Section 4-2-11 of this code. (Ord. M-8-24, 5-6-
2024; Ord. -, 6-3-2024)
TITLE 6
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
6-1-1: Animals Restricted Within City
6-1-2: Location Restrictions
6-1-3: Premises Kept Clean
6-1-4: Diseased Animals
6-1-5: Animal Care
6-1-6: Dangerous Animals And Reptiles
6-1-1: ANIMALS RESTRICTED WITHIN CITY:
   A.   Fowl: It shall be unlawful and it is hereby declared to be a nuisance
to raise, maintain or have upon any property within the city any chickens,
ducks, geese, guinea hens, pigeons or other similar fowl except as provided in
section
6-1-1 .D; provided, however, that it is not unlawful to keep, for educational
purposes, up to six (6) chicken hens on any property located within the city
that is greater than fifteen (15) acres and is listed on the national register
of historic places.
   B.   Horses: It shall be unlawful for any person to stable or otherwise keep
a horse or horses anywhere in the city, except on premises where the keeping of
horses was lawful under the ordinances of Cook County at the time such premises
were annexed to the city and provided that horses were kept on said premises on
the date of such annexation and continuously thereafter; and provided further
that said premises have remained the same size as when first annexed to the
city.
   C.   Goats, Pigs, Sheep, Cattle And Other Farm Animals: It shall be unlawful
for any person to keep any goats, pigs, sheep, cattle or other farm animals of
any kind anywhere in the city; provided, however, that it is not unlawful to
keep, for educational purposes, up to two (2) goats and two (2) sheep on any
property located within the city that is greater than fifteen (15) acres and is
listed on the national register of historic places.
   D.   Chicken Hens: It shall be unlawful and is hereby declared to be a
nuisance to raise, maintain, or have upon any property within the city any
chickens except under the following conditions:
      1.   Permit Required. Residents must obtain a permit from the Department
of Community and Economic Development.
      2.   Permit Fee. Payment of a non-refundable $35.00 permit fee is
required.
      3.   Certification Required. Applicants for permits pursuant to this
section must sign a certification acknowledging and attesting to the following:
         a.   The applicant received best practice and training information
from the City; and
         b.   The applicant provided a courtesy notice, at least two weeks
prior to the date of application, to the owners of adjoining property stating
the applicant’s intention to apply for a permit to keep hens pursuant to this
section.
      4.   Permits will only be issued to single family residences located in
the R-1 Zoning District.
      5.   Expiration of Permit. Every permit issued pursuant to this section
will become void and invalid unless the enclosure and coop required by
subsection D.9 of this section are installed within 180 days after the issuance
of the permit, or if the keeping of hens is suspended or abandoned for a period
of 180 days.
      6.   No more than six hens are permitted per zoning lot.
      7.   Roosters are prohibited.
      8.   Slaughtering of chickens is prohibited.
      9.   Hens must be kept in an enclosure and provided a coop.
         a.   Size. Enclosures may not exceed 100 square feet and coops may not
exceed 24 square feet in area and eight feet in height.
         b.   Location. Coops and enclosures must not be visible from the
street, must be located in a fenced rear yard, and must comply with all
applicable setback requirements set forth in section
12-8-1.C.
      10.   Perimeter Fencing Requirements. A permanent fence structure that
complies with section
12-8-2 of this Code must fully enclose the rear yard containing the coop and
enclosure. If the rear yard of a property requesting a hen permit is not
already enclosed with a permanent fence, the property owner must obtain a fence
permit from the City and install the fence prior to keeping chickens on the
property.
      11.   Sanitary Conditions. Coops and enclosures shall be maintained in
clean and sanitary condition at all times.
      12.   Violations. In addition to any other penalties that may apply under
this Code, if the permit holder is found to be in violation of this section
6-1-1.D, the City Manager may revoke the permit. (Ord. M-21-15, 11-2-2015; amd.
Ord. M-50-19, 12-16-2019; Ord. M-9-23, 4-3-2023)
6-1-2: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or locate any public
or private stable, barn or shed on the front two-thirds (2/3) of any lot on any
street where one-half (1/2) of the buildings on both sides of the street
between the next nearest intersecting streets are used exclusively for
residence purposes.
Stables, existing on or before the passage date of this subsection, are allowed
to remain as long as they comply with all other health and sanitary provisions
and nuisance restrictions of this code.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to locate, construct or maintain
any building or structure for stabling or keeping horses or other animals
within one hundred feet (100') of any school, church, hospital, public park or
public playground or within a distance of fifty feet (50') from any lot line
abutting any street. (Ord. M-13-09, 4-6-2009)
6-1-3: PREMISES KEPT CLEAN:
It shall be unlawful for any person to convert any building for the use of or
to construct any stable, barn or shed for the housing or keeping of horses or
other animals on any lot on any street or alley in which a public sewer is
constructed without providing the stable, barn or shed with an impervious floor
properly drained to the sewer. (Ord. M-13-09, 4-6-2009)
6-1-4: DISEASED ANIMALS:
   A.   Housing: No person shall cause or allow any stable or place where any
cow, horse or other animal is or may be kept to become unclean, filthy or
unwholesome nor allow any animal to be therein while infected with any disease,
contagious or pestilential among such animals, without a permit from the
community development department.
   B.   Bringing Into City: No diseased or sickly horse, cattle, sheep, swine,
dog, cat or other animal, nor any that have been exposed to any disease that is
contagious among animals, shall be brought into the city. (Ord. M-13-09, 4-6-
2009)
6-1-5: ANIMAL CARE:
   A.   No owner shall fail to provide his/her animal(s) with sufficient
wholesome food and water, proper shelter and protection from the weather,
veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering, and with humane care and
treatment.
   B.   No person shall beat, torment, overload, overwork or otherwise abuse an
animal.
   C.   No person shall own, keep, harbor, or otherwise maintain within the
city, any breeds of fowl that are or will be used in the pursuit of and staging
of cockfighting on any premises.
   D.   No person shall promote, stage, hold, manage, conduct, or carry on any
animal fight or any other type of contest, game, or fight of a similar nature,
nor any simulated version of same that involves baiting or inciting an animal
toward intent to fight.
   E.   No person shall hold a greased pig contest.
   F.   No person shall be permitted to keep animals in violation of the
"Illinois humane care for animals act 1
" or the "Illinois animal welfare act
 2
".
   G.   No owner may abandon any animal where it may become a public charge or
may suffer injury, hunger or exposure.
   H.   No person shall keep any animal within a building or upon any premises
without food, water, or proper care and attention for a period of time
sufficient to cause undue discomfort or suffering. If the owner cannot be
located after reasonable search, or if the owner shall be known to be absent
due to injury, illness, incarceration or other involuntary circumstances, it
shall be the duty of the chief of police or his/her designee to act upon the
complaint as directed by the "Illinois humane care for animals act".
   I.   No person shall give away or use any animal as a prize for or as an
inducement to enter any contest, game, or other competition or as an inducement
to enter a place of amusement or offer such animal as an incentive to enter any
business agreement whereby the offer was for the purpose of attracting trade.
   J.   No person shall bring or cause to have brought into the city, sell,
offer for sale, barter or display living baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl
or rabbits which have been dyed, colored or otherwise treated so as to impart
to them an artificial color, or give away as pets or sell, offer for sale,
barter or give away at no cost or as novelties or prizes. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to prohibit legitimate commerce in poultry for
agricultural or food purposes.
   K.   No person may knowingly poison or cause to be poisoned any domesticated
animal. The only exception will be a written permit from the Illinois
department of agriculture for the purpose of controlling diseases transmissible
to humans or other animals and only when all other methods and means have been
exhausted. Such a permit shall name a person or persons conducting the
poisoning, specify the products to be used, give the boundaries of the area
involved and specify the precautionary measures to be employed to ensure the
safety of humans and other animals. Such license shall be presented to the
chief of police or his/her designee before such methods are to be performed.
Any drugs used for euthanasia shall be by or under the direction of a licensed
veterinarian.
   L.   No person shall kill or wound, attempt to kill or wound, or take the
nest or eggs or young of any bird that is protected by federal or state law.
Birds that are regulated by the Illinois department of conservation are
excluded from this restriction during the period of regulation.
   M.   No person shall keep or permit to be kept or display for exhibition
purposes any wild animal contrary to federal, state and local laws or
regulations.
   N.   No person shall permit at any time his/her animal to:
      1.   Run uncontrolled;
      2.   Molest persons or vehicles by chasing, barking or biting;
      3.   Attack other animals;
      4.   Damage property other than the owner's; or
      5.   Bark, whine, howl or make excess noises so as to cause a nuisance.
   O.   No person shall allow animal feces to accumulate in any yard, pen or
premises in or upon which an animal shall be confined or kept so that it
becomes offensive to those residing in the vicinity or a health hazard to the
residing animal.
   P.   No person shall fail to remove feces deposited by his/her animal,
except service animals, upon the public ways or within public places of the
city or upon the premises of any person other than the owner without the
person's consent.
   Q.   No person shall leave any animal unattended in a motor vehicle or
enclosed trailer when the outside temperature shall exceed thirty degrees
Celsius (30°C) (86°F) or contain any animal in such manner that said animal
does not have proper air circulation while confined in a motor vehicle,
trailer, kennel, doghouse, or any type of container or structure in which an
animal may be confined.
   R.   No person shall own any animal which is known to be infected with any
disease transmissible to other animals or humans, including severe parasitism,
unless such animal shall be confined in such a manner as not to expose other
animals or humans.
   S.   Any animals which are on any public way or public place and which
appear to be injured or severely diseased and for which care is not being
provided on the scene by the owner, or any injured or severely diseased animal
that has strayed onto private premises shall be removed, if possible, to the
care of the nearest municipal pound, Cook County department of animal and
rabies control, to the nearest humane society or to the nearest veterinarian or
veterinary hospital willing to accept same without guarantee of payment. If
immediate removal shall not appear practical or possible or if the removed
animal is in critical condition such animal may be deprived of life by the most
humane method available on the scene unless the owner shall come forward
beforehand and assume responsibility for immediate removal and care.
   T.   Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes an animal
shall stop at once and render such assistance as may be possible; or shall
immediately report such injury to the animal owner, if known; or the Des
Plaines police department.
   U.    Any person having a dead animal within his/her possession or control
or upon any premises owned or occupied by such person without the proper permit
shall dispose of the dead animal in compliance with the Illinois dead animal
disposal act 3
.
   V.   Every person in possession or control of a stable or place open for
public use where any animals are kept, shall maintain the stable or place at
all times in a clean, sanitary condition and conform to city/state fire
prevention regulations. (Ord. M-13-09, 4-6-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 510 ILCS 70/1 et seq.
2 2. 225 ILCS 605/1 et seq.
3 1. 225 ILCS 610/1 et seq.
6-1-6: DANGEROUS ANIMALS AND REPTILES:
   A.   Keeping: No person shall own, keep or harbor within the city:
      1.   Any snake, reptile or lizard that is physically capable of injuring
any person, regardless of age, by poison, constriction or other means (i.e.,
bite that causes disfigurement, etc.).
      2.   Any lion, tiger, cougar, panther, bobcat, mountain lion, lynx,
ocelot, leopard, any hybrid thereof, or any other similar feline animal.
      3.   Any wolf, coyote, jackal, fox, wild dog, or hybrid thereof.
      4.   Any bear or bison.
      5.   Any rodent weighing more than one pound, with the exception of
guinea pigs.
      6.   Any noncanine animal not native to the North American continent and
which, when full grown, normally attains a weight in excess of two hundred
(200) pounds.
      7.   Any monkey (not authorized by the state of Illinois as a sanctioned
pet), gorilla, chimpanzee or other similar apelike primate.
This section shall not apply to properly zoned and constructed zoos, animal
shelters, veterinary hospitals, pounds, federally licensed scientific or
research laboratories, educational or other licensed institutions.
   B.   At Large: An animal is at large if it is not under control, by leash,
of the owner or a member of the immediate family over ten (10) years of age. If
the animal is on the owner's property it is at large if it is not contained on
the property by means of a leash or chain while supervised by owner, a fence,
or a kennel run. (Ord. M-13-09, 4-6-2009)
ARTICLE A. DOGS AND CATS
SECTION:
6-1A-1: Definitions
6-1A-2: Purpose
6-1A-3: Reserved
6-1A-4: Reserved
6-1A-5: Dog Kennels
6-1A-6: Catteries
6-1A-7: Reserved
6-1A-8: Running At Large; Leash Required
6-1A-9: Rabies Vaccination
6-1A-10: Dangerous Or Vicious Animals
6-1A-11: Disturbing The Peace
6-1A-12: Control Of Defecation
6-1A-13: Dog Runs
6-1A-14: Dog Parks And Areas
6-1A-15: Impounding Of Dogs And Cats
6-1A-16: Stray Animals
6-1A-17: Female Animals In Heat
6-1A-18: Animal Cruelty
6-1A-19: Feeding Of Nuisance Wildlife Prohibited
6-1A-20: Violations; Punishments
6-1A-21: Adoption Of Statutes And Cook County Ordinances
6-1A-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this article:
ADMINISTRATOR: The licensed veterinarian appointed by the City of Des Plaines,
pursuant to the Illinois Animal Control Act or his/her authorized
representative.
ANIMAL: Any live vertebrate creature except humans.
ANIMAL CAPABLE OF TRANSMITTING RABIES: All animals classified as mammals.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER/WARDEN: An employee of the City of Des Plaines appointed
by the Chief of Police or his/her designee to exercise police powers in the
enforcement of this chapter.
BIRD: Any flying vertebrate that is covered with feathers.
BITE: Seizure of a person with the jaws or teeth of any cat, dog or other
animal capable of transmitting rabies so that the person so seized has been
wounded or pierced and further includes contact of the saliva of such cat, dog
or other animal with any break or abrasion of skin.
CAT: All members of the classification Felis catus.
CATTERY: A for profit cat breeder.
CONFINED: The restriction of the cat, dog or other animal at all times by the
owner in a manner that will isolate the cat, dog or other animal from the
public and other cats, dogs or other animals.
CONTROL: Any owned animal that is either secured by a leash or lead, or within
the premises of its owner, or confined within a crate or cage, or confined
within a vehicle, or within the premises of another person with the consent of
that person.
DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMAL: Any animal which has known vicious propensities or
which has been known to attack or injure any person or animal who was
peacefully conducting themselves in any place where they may lawfully be.
DOG: All members of the classification Canis familiaris.
DOMESTIC ANIMAL: Any animal which has been domesticated by humans so as to live
and breed in a tame condition.
ENCLOSURE: A four (4) sided fence, room, crate or other pet friendly structure
which humanely confines an animal as to keep said animal securely within as to
not expose the animal to other animals or humans.
GUARD DOG: A dog used in a commercial business or by a municipal or police
department for the purposes of patrol and protection.
INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES: The injection of a rabies vaccine approved by the
Illinois department of agriculture and administered by a licensed veterinarian
in accordance with the company's recommendations for the vaccine used.
KENNEL: A state approved establishment where animals are bred, trained, or
boarded.
OWNER: Any person having the right of property in an animal, who keeps or
harbors an animal, who has it in his/her care, acts as its custodian or who
knowingly permits an animal to remain on or about any premises occupied by him/
her unless possession is prohibited by federal or state laws. Native wildlife
remaining on or about any premises shall not be included in this definition.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, society, association or
other legal entity, any public or private institution, municipal corporation,
unit of local government or any other business unit.
POUND: Any facility licensed by the Illinois department of agriculture and
approved by the chief of police or his/her designee for the purpose of
enforcing this chapter and used as a shelter for injured, seized, stray,
homeless, abandoned or unwanted animals.
SERVICE ANIMAL: Any guide dog, signal dog, or other animal individually trained
to do work or perform tasks for the benefit of an individual with a disability,
including, but not limited to, guiding individuals with impaired vision,
alerting individuals with impaired hearing to intruders or sounds, providing
minimal protection or rescue work, pulling a wheelchair, or fetching dropped
items.
STRAY ANIMAL: Any owned animal that is not controlled.
TETHERING: The practice of fastening a companion animal to a stationary object
or stake, usually in the owner's backyard, as a means of keeping the animal
under control. This term does not refer to the periods when an animal is walked
on a leash. (Ord. M-14-09, 4-6-2009)
6-1A-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide harmonious relationships in the
interaction between humans and animals by:
   A.   Protecting the citizens of the city of Des Plaines from rabies by
specifying such preventive and control measures as may be necessary;
   B.   Protecting animals from improper use, abuse, neglect, inhumane
treatment and health hazards, particularly rabies;
   C.   Providing security to residents from annoyance, intimidation, and
injury from cats, dogs, and other animals;
   D.   Encouraging responsible pet ownership;
   E.   Providing for the assessment of penalties for violators and for the
enforcement and administration of this chapter. (Ord. M-14-09, 4-6-2009)
6-1A-3: RESERVED:
(Ord. M-40-18, 12-3-2018)
6-1A-4: RESERVED:
(Ord. M-40-18, 12-3-2018)
6-1A-5: DOG KENNELS:
Any person who allows more than three (3) dogs, excluding puppies under three
(3) months of age, to be kept in one household of any type other than a single-
family detached dwelling, as defined in section
12-13-3 of the City of Des Plaines Zoning Code, shall be considered the
operator of a dog kennel.
Any person who allows more than four (4) dogs, excluding puppies under three
(3) months of age, to be kept in one single-family detached dwelling, as
defined in section
12-13-3 of the City of Des Plaines Zoning Code, shall be considered the
operator of a dog kennel. For the purpose of this section, "single-family
detached dwelling" shall not include, without limitation, any mobile home, as
defined in section
12-13-3 of the City of Des Plaines Zoning Code.
Operators of dog kennels shall comply with the following regulations: (Ord. M-
58-12, 12-3-2012)
   A.   Fee: The kennel operator shall pay the annual fee. (Ord. M-58-12, 12-3-
2012; amd. Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
   B.   Location:
      1.   The kennel shall be located in premises zoned for business purposes.
      2.   No kennel shall be permitted within three hundred feet (300') of any
dwelling house unless both the owner and occupant of the dwelling house consent
to the same; the applicant to furnish such consent in writing.
   C.   Kennel Conditions: All dog kennels shall be kept at all times in a
clean and sanitary condition and dogs kept therein shall be reasonably
restrained from annoying the neighborhood or the general public by barking,
yelping or howling. (Ord. M-58-12, 12-3-2012)
   D.   License Required: The kennel license shall include the name and address
of the owner of said kennel, the location of the kennel and the number of dogs
to be kept in the kennel. The kennel license is nontransferable. Each kennel
license shall be posted conspicuously upon the premises where the kennel is
located. (Ord. M-40-18, 12-3-2018)
6-1A-6: CATTERIES:
Any person who is considered the operator of a cattery shall be required to
comply with the following regulations: (Ord. M-14-09, 4-6-2009)
   A.   Fee: A cattery operator shall pay the annual fee. (Ord. M-14-09, 4-6-
2009; amd. Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
   B.   Location:
      1.   The cattery shall be located in premises zoned for business
purposes.
      2.   No cattery shall be permitted within three hundred feet (300') of
any dwelling house unless both the owner and occupant of the dwelling house
consent to the same; the applicant must furnish such consent in writing.
   C.   Cats To Be Confined: No cats belonging to the cattery shall be
permitted to run at large, and must be confined to the premises of the cattery.
   D.   Cattery Conditions: All catteries shall be kept at all times in a clean
and sanitary condition and cats kept therein shall be reasonably restrained
from annoying the neighborhood or the general public by any cat crying or
meowing. (Ord. M-14-09, 4-6-2009)
   E.   License Required: The cattery license shall include the name and
address of the owner of said cattery, the location of the cattery and the
number of cats to be kept in the cattery. The cattery license is
nontransferable. Each cattery license shall be posted conspicuously upon the
premises where the cattery is located. (Ord. M-40-18, 12-3-2018)
6-1A-7: RESERVED:
(Ord. M-40-18, 12-3-2018)
6-1A-8: RUNNING AT LARGE; LEASH REQUIRED:
   A.   Leash Required:
      1.   Dogs: No dog, whether muzzled or not muzzled, inoculated or not
inoculated against rabies, shall be allowed upon the streets of the City or in
public places, such as parks, hotels, restaurants, railroad depots, theaters,
public conveyances, and the like, or upon property other than that of its
owner, unless upon a suitable dependable leash, not longer than eight feet (8')
in length. (Ord. M-40-18, 12-3-2018)
      2.   Cats: It shall be unlawful for any cat to run at large, unless
neutered, inoculated for rabies, and microchipped per the Illinois State
approved trap-neuter-release program. (Ord. M-14-09, 4-6-2009; amd. Ord. M-40-
18, 12-3-2018)
      3.   Tethering: Tethering is not an acceptable form of a leash. Tethering
shall not be used to restrain an animal for extended periods of time. Under no
circumstances shall an animal be tethered on residential property without an
owner or occupant present.
   B.   Food Establishments: No cat or dog whether on a leash or not shall be
permitted within any store where foodstuffs are sold with the exception of
guide dogs properly harnessed.
   C.   Nuisance Dogs Or Cats: Any animal declared a nuisance by virtue of its
noise, viciousness, defection or killing of wildlife must be confined to the
owner's property or it can be impounded.
   D.   City Parks And School Grounds: No person shall, within or upon the City
parks and public school grounds within the City:
      1.   Cause or permit any animal to run at large; and
      2.   Bring, drive, lead, carry or permit any dog, either leashed or
unleashed, muzzled or unmuzzled, or any cat within or upon any public school
properties within the City. (Ord. M-14-09, 4-6-2009)
6-1A-9: RABIES VACCINATION:
   A.   Every owner, except animal shelters, animal impounding facilities, and
laboratory animal facilities, of an animal three (3) months or more of age
shall cause such animal to be inoculated with rabies vaccine by a licensed
veterinarian at such intervals as approved by the Illinois department of
agriculture. The rabies vaccine shall be licensed by the United States
department of agriculture and approved by the Illinois department of
agriculture.
   B.   Evidence of such rabies inoculation shall be entered on a certificate
approved by the Cook County board of commissioners. Veterinarians who inoculate
an animal shall procure from the Cook County department of animal and rabies
control serially numbered tags, one to be issued with each inoculation
certificate. Only one animal shall be included on each certificate. Such tags
shall be attached to the collar or harness worn by the animal for which the tag
was issued when the animal is off the property of the owner.
   C.   No dog or cat coming into the possession or custody of the dog and cat
pound shall be released to its owner unless the dog or cat shall have been,
within one year prior to the date of such release, inoculated against rabies,
as proven by a certificate of inoculation against rabies, issued by the county
rabies inspector, or by his/her deputy or by a licensed veterinarian.
   D.   When upon written certification of the designated city official or
agent of the city, to the effect that it is considered that a certain dog or
cat is rabid or has actually been bitten within the previous fifteen (15) days
by a dog, cat, or animal, rabid or suspected of being rabid, a copy of such
certification shall be given to the owner of the dog or cat, if known, at the
same time, and thereupon the dog or cat mentioned and described fully in the
certification, shall be seized on or off the owner's premises without the
necessity of an arrest, warrant or court order, and impounded in the dog and
cat pound by any police officer or agent of the city and kept impounded for a
period of not exceeding fifteen (15) days, and if upon the expiration of said
period the dog or cat shall be living, the dog or cat shall be returned to its
owner, if known, promptly on the sixteenth day after seizure, without any cost
whatsoever to its owner, having been properly fed and cared for; provided,
however, that the suspected dog or cat may at the owner's request and at the
owner's expense be impounded for the fifteen (15) days with a registered
veterinarian; said dog or cat not to be released by the registered veterinarian
until the veterinarian shall certify that the dog or cat does not have rabies.
(Ord. M-14-09, 4-6-2009)
6-1A-10: DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMALS:
Dangerous or vicious animals shall be confined by the owner within a building
or secure enclosure and shall be muzzled or caged whenever off the premises of
its owner.
   A.   Definitions:
   BODILY ORGAN: Any bodily organ that includes, but is not limited to, skin,
which is considered the largest of the human organs.
   CAT: All members of the family Felidae.
   DANGEROUS DOG: Any individual dog when unmuzzled, unleashed, or unattended
by its owner or custodian that behaves in a manner that a reasonable person
would believe poses a serious and unjustified imminent threat of serious
physical injury or death to a person or a companion animal in a public place. A
dog that without justification bites a person or a companion animal and does
not cause serious physical injury.
   DOG: All members of the classification Canis familiaris.
   ENCLOSURE: A fence or structure of at least six feet (6') in height, forming
or causing an enclosure suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and
suitable to confine a vicious dog. The enclosure shall be securely enclosed and
locked and designed with secure sides, top, and bottom and shall be designed to
prevent the animal from escaping from the enclosure. If the enclosure is a room
within a residence, the door must be locked. The enclosure shall also display
signage that states "Vicious or Dangerous Animal, Beware" or in similar nature
and approved by the chief of police or his/her designee. A vicious dog may be
allowed to move about freely within the entire residence if the residence is
being occupied at that time by immediate family members only.
   FERRET: All members of the classification Mustela putorius furo.
   IMPOUNDED: Taken into the custody of the public animal control facility in
the town where the animal is found.
   MUZZLE: A fastening or covering for the mouth of an animal used to prevent
biting and eating.
   OWNER: Any person having a right of property in an animal or who keeps or
harbors an animal, or acts as its custodian, or who has it in his/her care.
   PHYSICAL INJURY: The impairment of physical condition.
   POLICE ANIMAL: An animal owned or used by a law enforcement department or
agency in the course of the department's or agency's work.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL INJURY: A physical injury that creates a substantial risk
of death or that causes death, serious disfigurement, serious impairment of
health, impairment of the function of any bodily organ, or injury requiring
plastic surgery, or injury or injuries that when viewed by a reasonable person
are considered significant and substantial.
   VICIOUS DOG: A dog that, without justification, attacks a person or another
companion animal and causes serious physical injury or death or any individual
dog that has been found to be a "dangerous dog" upon three (3) separate
occasions.
   B.   Declaration Of A "Vicious" Animal: An animal may be declared vicious if
the court determines that without justification, the animal attacks a person or
another companion animal causing serious physical injury or death, or any
individual animal that has been found to be a "dangerous animal" upon three (3)
separate occasions.
The chief of police or his/her designee may deem an animal "vicious". The city
will give notice of the infraction that is the basis of the investigation to
the owner, conduct a thorough investigation, interview any witnesses, including
the owner, gather any existing medical records, veterinary medical records or
behavioral evidence, and make a detailed report recommending a finding that the
animal is a vicious animal and file the report with the city.
Testimony of a certified applied behaviorist, a board certified veterinary
behaviorist, or another recognized expert, may be relevant to the court's
determination as to whether the animal's behavior was vicious or justified.
The petitioner must establish by preponderance of the evidence that the animal
is vicious. If the burden of proof is met, the court shall deem the animal to
be a vicious animal.
An animal shall not be declared vicious if the court determines the conduct of
the animal was justified because:
      1.   The threat, injury, or death was sustained by a person who at the
time was committing a crime or offense upon the owner or custodian of the
animal; or upon the property of the owner or custodian of the animal; or
      2.   The injured, threatened, or killed person was tormenting, abusing,
assaulting, or physically threatening the animal or its offspring, or has in
the past tormented, abused, assaulted, or physically threatened the animal or
its offspring; or
      3.   The animal was responding to pain or injury, or was protecting
itself, its owner, custodian or member of its household, kennel, or offspring.
      4.   No animal shall be deemed vicious if it is a professionally trained
dog for law enforcement or guard duties.
      5.   Vicious animals shall not be classified in a manner that is specific
as to breed.
Guide animals for the blind or hearing impaired, support animals for the
physically handicapped, and sentry, guard or police owned animals are exempt
from this subsection; provided, an attack or injury to a person or companion
animal occurs while the dog is performing duties as expected. To qualify for
exemption under this subsection, each such animal shall be currently inoculated
against rabies in accordance with this article. It shall be the duty of the
owner of such exempted animal to notify the city as well as the Cook County
animal administrator of changes of address.
   C.   Finding Of A Vicious Animal: If an animal is found to be a vicious
animal, the animal shall be spayed or neutered and microchipped within ten (10)
days of the finding at the expense of the owner. The animal shall be subject to
enclosure. An animal found to be a vicious animal shall not be released to the
owner until the chief of police or his/her designee approves such enclosure. No
owner or keeper of a vicious animal shall sell or give away the animal without
city approval. The owner or keeper of a vicious animal shall notify the city if
the vicious animal has died or will be euthanized. Whenever an owner of a
vicious animal relocates, he or she shall notify both the chief of police or
his/her designee where he or she is leaving and the chief of police or his/her
designee of the city/town where he or she will be living.
   D.   Confinement Of A Vicious Animal: It shall be unlawful for any person to
keep or maintain any animal which has been found to be a vicious animal unless
the animal is kept in an enclosure. The only times that a vicious animal may be
allowed out of the enclosure are: 1) if it is necessary for the animal owner or
keeper of the animal to obtain veterinary care for the animal, 2) in the case
of an emergency or natural disaster where the animal's life is threatened, or
3) to comply with the order of a court of competent jurisdiction, provided that
the animal is securely muzzled and restrained with a leash not exceeding six
feet (6') in length, and shall be under the direct control and supervision of
the owner or keeper of the dog.
Any animal which has been found to be a vicious animal and which is not
confined to an enclosure shall be impounded by the chief of police or his/her
designee.
If the owner of the animal has not appealed the impoundment order to the
circuit court of Cook County within fifteen (15) working days, the animal may
be euthanized.
Upon filing a notice of appeal, the order of euthanasia shall be automatically
stopped pending the outcome of the appeal.
   E.   Dangerous Animal Determination: Within three (3) days after the city
receives notice of violations of this article, the city shall send notice of
said violation to the owner of the alleged violations. The notice shall also
inform the owner of the opportunity to meet with the city prior to making of a
determination. The chief of police or his/her designee after reviewing all
available evidence may deem an animal to be "dangerous". No animal shall be
deemed a "dangerous animal" without preponderance of evidence. The owner shall
be sent immediate notification of the determination by registered or certified
mail that includes a complete description of the appeal process.
An animal shall not be declared dangerous if the chief of police or his/her
designee determines the conduct of the animal was justified because:
      1.   The threat was sustained by a person who at the time was committing
a crime or offense upon the owner or custodian of the animal; or upon the
property of the owner or custodian of the animal;
      2.   The threatened person was tormenting, abusing, assaulting, or
physically threatening the animal or its offspring;
      3.   The injured, threatened, or killed companion animal was attacking or
threatening to attack the animal or its offspring; or
      4.   The animal was responding to pain or injury or was protecting
itself, its owner, custodian, or a member of its household, kennel, or
offspring.
Testimony of a certified applied behaviorist, a board certified veterinary
behaviorist, or another recognized expert may be relevant to the determination
of whether the animal's behavior was justified pursuant to the provisions of
this subsection.
Guide animals for the blind or hearing impaired, support animals for the
physically handicapped, and sentry, guard or police owned animals are exempt
from this subsection; provided an attack or injury to a person occurs while the
animal is performing duties as expected. To qualify for exemption under this
subsection, each such animal shall be currently inoculated against rabies in
accordance with this article. It shall be the duty of the owner of such
exempted animal to notify the city of changes of address. In the case of such
exempted animals, the owner shall keep the city advised of the location where
such animal will be stationed.
   F.   Finding Of A Dangerous Animal: If deemed dangerous, the chief of police
or his/her designee, shall order the animal be spayed or neutered within ten
(10) days at the owner's expense and microchipped, if not already, signage to
be placed at the residence of the dangerous animal that states "Dangerous Dog,
Beware" or similar in nature and approved by the chief of police or his/her
designee, and one or more of the following as deemed appropriate under the
circumstances and necessary for the protection of the public:
      1.   Evaluation of the animal by a certified applied behaviorist, a board
certified veterinary behaviorist, or another recognized expert in the field and
completion of training or other treatment as deemed appropriate by the expert.
The owner of the animal shall be responsible for all costs associated with
evaluations and training ordered under this subsection; or
      2.   Direct supervision by an adult eighteen (18) years of age or older
whenever the animal is on public premises.
The chief of police or his/her designee may order a dangerous animal to be
muzzled whenever the animal is on public premises in a manner that will prevent
it from biting any person or animal, but that shall not injure the animal or
interfere with its vision or respiration.
   G.   Control Of A Dangerous Animal:
      1.   Dangerous Animal; Leash: It is unlawful for any person to knowingly
or recklessly permit any dangerous animal to leave the premises of its owner
when not under control by leash or other recognized control methods.
   H.   Appeal Of Dangerous Animal Determination:
      1.   Dangerous Animal; Appeal: The owner of an animal found to be
dangerous pursuant to this article by the chief of police or his/her designee,
may, within fourteen (14) days of receipt of notification of the determination,
request an administrative hearing to appeal the determination. The
administrative hearing shall be conducted pursuant to the city's rules of
procedure for administrative proceedings. The final administrative decision of
the city may be appealed to the circuit court of Cook County pursuant to the
Illinois administrative review act.
Until the order has been reviewed and at all times during the appeal process,
the owner shall comply with the requirements set forth by the city, the court,
or the chief of police or his/her designee.
At any time after the final order has been entered, the owner may petition the
circuit court to reverse the designation of dangerous animal.
   I.   Expenses Of Microchipping: It shall be the responsibility of the animal
owner to have the animal microchipped by an approved veterinarian at the animal
owner's expense.
   J.   Violations: Any person violating or aiding in or abetting the violation
of any provision of this article, or counterfeiting or forging any certificate,
permit, or tag, or making any misrepresentation in regard to any matter
prescribed by this article, or resisting, obstructing, or impeding the chief of
police or his/her designee or any authorized officer in enforcing this article,
or refusing to produce for inoculation any animal in his/her possession or who
removes a tag from an animal for purposes of destroying or concealing its
identity, or who removes a tag, microchip, or tattoo, shall be subject to a
fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
Each day a person fails to comply constitutes a separate offense. Each state's
attorney to whom the chief of police or his/her designee reports any violation
of this article shall cause appropriate proceedings to be instituted in the
proper manner provided by law.
   K.   Penalties; Vicious Animal: If the owner of a vicious animal subject to
enclosure:
      1.   Fails to maintain or keep the animal in an enclosure or fails to
spay or neuter the animal; or
      2.   The animal inflicts serious physical injury upon any other person or
companion animal or causes the death of another person or companion animal; and
      3.   The attack is unprovoked in a place where such person or companion
animal is peaceably conducting himself/herself; shall be subject to a fine as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. M-14-09, 4-6-2009)
6-1A-11: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
   A.   No person shall keep any animal shut up or tied in a yard, house, shed,
barn or other place, which by barking, meowing or by other noises shall
constantly disturb the peace and quiet of any family, individual or
neighborhood.
   B.   Any dog left outdoors or in a facility detached from a residence/
business barking excessively, therefore disturbing the peace of the public,
three (3) or more times during a twenty four (24) hour period in which the
owner/keeper cannot be contacted or is not present, shall/may be impounded at
the owner's/keeper's expense. (Ord. M-14-09, 4-6-2009)
6-1A-12: CONTROL OF DEFECATION:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit an animal to be
on a property, public or private, not owned or possessed by such person unless
such person has in his/her immediate possession a device for the removal of
excrement and a depository for the transmission of excrement to a receptacle
located upon property owned or possessed by such person.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person in control of, causing or
permitting any animal in his or her control to be on any property, public or
private, not owned or possessed by such person to fail to remove excrement left
by such animal to a proper receptacle located on property owned or possessed by
such person. (Ord. M-14-09, 4-6-2009)
6-1A-13: DOG RUNS:
   A.   Location: Dog runs located in residential districts shall be located
only at the rear of the property and shall be prohibited from being within ten
feet (10') of the rear lot line.
   B.   Sanitary Premises: Defecation shall not be allowed to accumulate in any
part of the yard and the yard, including the dog run, shall be cleaned on a
regular basis. Any person found violating this provision, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined fifty dollars ($50.00) per violation. Each day that a
violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
   C.   Enforcement: It shall be the duty of the City Sanitarian or his/her
designated representatives to enforce the provisions of this section. (Ord. M-
14-09, 4-6-2009)
6-1A-14: DOG PARKS AND AREAS:
   A.   Definitions:
   DOG PARK: An enclosed area of land where dogs are permitted to be off leash.
   LEASH: A cord, rope, strap, or chain which shall be securely fastened to the
collar or harness of a dog or other animal and shall be of sufficient strength
to keep such dog or other animal under control.
   OPERATOR: Any person who owns, operates or provides for use by patrons, a
dog park.
   B.   Requirements:
      1.   No person shall be an operator of a dog park unless such dog park is
in compliance with this section.
      2.   A dog park must be completely enclosed by a contiguous fence with
each entrance designed in such a manner as to secure against accidental
opening.
      3.   There must be prominently displayed at each entrance to a dog park a
sign that sets forth the operator's rules for use of the dog park by patrons
which rules shall not be inconsistent with these regulations.
      4.   Dogs must be on a leash when entering into and leaving a dog park.
They may be taken off a leash while within the dog park except as necessary for
the safety of the dogs or patrons. (Ord. M-14-09, 4-6-2009)
      5.   The operator must institute a plan (e.g., licensing/permitting and/
or use of a key or key card system) satisfactory to the City for each dog park
that reasonably ensures that access to the dog park is limited to dogs:
         a.   For whom there is written proof of an examination within the past
year for any communicable diseases including an examination of a stool specimen
for internal parasites, and current vaccinations or titers if possible for
distemper, hepatitis, parainfluenza, parvovirus and bordetella (kennel cough)
unless an exemption to this requirement has been granted by the City upon the
written recommendation from the owner's veterinarian; and
         b.   Who are in compliance with rabies vaccination requirements of the
Illinois Animal Control Act 1
. (Ord. M-40-18, 12-3-2018)
      6.   The plan required by subsection B5 of this section shall be filed in
writing with and must be approved by the City prior to the operator permitting
patrons to use a dog park. Once approved by the City, any proposed change in
the plan must be approved by the City prior to such change becoming effective.
      7.   The operator must institute a system of periodic surveillance to
monitor compliance by dog park patrons with the operator's dog park plan and
rules. The operator shall have a policy for those instances in which a patron
does not observe the operator's rules. The operator shall permit the City to
monitor and enforce compliance by dog park patrons with the operator's dog park
plan and rules.
      8.   The dog park must have covered leakproof containers available for
storage of waste materials for disposal to control vermin and insects, which
containers shall be periodically emptied and maintained in a sanitary
condition.
      9.   Patrons shall comply with the operator's rules and regulations as
well as any City ordinances and State laws. (Ord. M-14-09, 4-6-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 510 ILCS 5.
6-1A-15: IMPOUNDING OF DOGS AND CATS:
   A.   Dog And Cat Pound: The City shall maintain a public pound, or designate
a licensed veterinary hospital to be used as such, properly located, maintained
in a sanitary condition, humanely managed, and known as the dog and cat pound,
and same shall be under the jurisdiction of the Chief of Police or his/her
designee, who shall enforce the provisions of this section.
   B.   Impoundment Procedures:
      1.   Under the provisions of this article, any dog running at large or
any cat judged a nuisance by its behavior shall be seized promptly by any
police officer or agent of the City and impounded in the dog and cat pound.
      2.   Any dog or cat impounded under the provisions of this section, with
the exception of a vicious dog or cat, may be redeemed by the owner or any
person authorized by the owner within six (6) days from the date of impounding,
upon payment by the owner of the following sums:
         a.   A redemption fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) plus the impoundment
fees for the first offense and one hundred dollars ($100.00) plus impoundment
fees for the second offense and each offense thereafter; and
         b.   The amount of the cost of impoundment of the dog or cat while so
impounded. (Ord. M-40-18, 12-3-2018)
   C.   Redemption Or Destruction:
      1.   If the dog or cat is not redeemed within six (6) days after being
impounded, the person in charge of the pound shall cause the dog or cat to be
placed in a shelter pending adoption or destroyed in a humane manner and cause
the body thereof to be incinerated.
The foregoing paragraph, relating to destruction of dogs or cats, shall not
apply to any dog or cat impounded on account of being rabid, or having been
bitten by a rabid dog or cat, or suspected of having been bitten by a rabid dog
or cat, or being suspected for any reason of having rabies, or any dog or cat
declared to be vicious or dangerous.
      2.   The bodies of all dogs or cats humanely euthanized shall be disposed
of by the dog and cat pound on the same day and in accordance with Illinois
State law. (Ord. M-14-09, 4-6-2009)
6-1A-16: STRAY ANIMALS:
   A.   Whenever an officer or agent for the City observes or is informed that
an animal is a stray or is running at large and not under control of the owner,
the animal shall be immediately apprehended and impounded. Any person may
apprehend a stray animal and inform the City so that the stray animal can be
impounded.
   B.   All stray animals impounded shall have a record. The record shall
include the owner's name, address and telephone number, if known; species or
breed, color, sex, and physical condition of the animal; license or tag number,
if known; and the time and date impounded.
   C.   When owners of stray animals impounded are known, notice shall be given
by mail to the last known address. Stray animals shall be held not less than
seven (7) days, if the owner is known. All unclaimed apprehended animals shall
be placed for adoption, humanely euthanized or otherwise disposed of in
accordance with the Illinois State law.
   D.   Any animal found to have been impounded due to being stray three (3) or
more times shall be microchipped for future identification at a cost payable by
the animal's owner before release from the dog and cat pound.
   E.   The stray animal owner is responsible for all costs relating to the
apprehension and impoundment of the animal found not under control. (Ord. M-14-
09, 4-6-2009)
6-1A-17: FEMALE ANIMALS IN HEAT:
The owner of any female animal in heat (estrus) shall confine such animal in a
building or secure enclosure and shall attend the animal in such a manner that
such female animal cannot come into contact with a male of the same species
except for planned breeding. (Ord. M-14-09, 4-6-2009)
6-1A-18: ANIMAL CRUELTY:
   A.   Owner's Duties: Each owner shall provide for each of his/her animals:
      1.   Sufficient quantity of good quality, wholesome food and water;
      2.   Adequate shelter and protection from the weather;
      3.   Veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering; and
      4.   Humane care and treatment.
   B.   Cruel Treatment:
      1.   No person or owner may beat, cruelly treat, torment, starve,
overwork or otherwise abuse any animal;
      2.   No owner may abandon any animal where it may become a public charge
or may suffer injury, hunger or exposure;
      3.   No owner may "tether" a companion animal for the purpose of securing
that animal for extended periods of time. (Ord. M-14-09, 4-6-2009)
6-1A-19: FEEDING OF NUISANCE WILDLIFE PROHIBITED:
It shall be prohibited to feed any nuisance wildlife, whether on private or
public property. Nuisance animals include, but are not limited to, squirrels,
raccoons, skunks, opossums, fox and coyotes. (Ord. M-14-09, 4-6-2009)
6-1A-20: VIOLATIONS; PUNISHMENTS:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter or counterfeiting or forging
any certificate, permit or tag, or resisting, obstructing or impeding any
authorized officer in enforcing this chapter shall be subject to a fine as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each person shall be guilty of a separate offense for every
day in which any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is
committed or permitted to continue and shall be punished as provided in this
chapter.
   A.   The City, State's Attorney or any citizen of the City may maintain a
complaint in the Circuit Court of Cook County to enjoin all persons in the
control of a dangerous animal from allowing or permitting such animal to leave
his/her premises when not under control of a leash and muzzle or other
recognized methods of physical restraint.
   B.   If any owned animal injures another animal which is under control, the
owner of the attacking animal is liable for the full amount of the injuries
sustained.
   C.   If any owned animal, without provocation, attacks or injures any person
who is peacefully conducting himself/herself in any place where he/she may
lawfully be, the owner of such animal is liable for damages to such person for
the amount of the injury sustained. (Ord. M-14-09, 4-6-2009)
6-1A-21: ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND COOK COUNTY ORDINANCES:
The City hereby adopts by reference to this Code the following:
   A.   Illinois Humane Care for Animals Act, 510 Illinois Compiled Statutes
70/1 et seq.
   B.   Illinois Animal Welfare Act, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 605/1 et
seq.
   C.   Dead Animal Disposal Act, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 610/1 et seq.
   D.   Cook County animal and rabies control ordinance. (Ord. M-14-09, 4-6-
2009)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-2-1: Offenses Against The Person
6-2-1-1: Disturbing The Peace
6-2-1-2: Disorderly Conduct
6-2-1-3: Assault
6-2-1-4: Battery
6-2-1-5: Assembly, Unlawful
6-2-1-6: Collecting Crowds
6-2-2: Offenses Against Property
6-2-2-1: Injure Or Damage Property
6-2-2-2: Posting Bills
6-2-2-3: Water Flowing Upon Streets
6-2-2-4: Letting Premises For Unlawful Purposes
6-2-3: Trespassing
6-2-4: Obscene And Indecent Acts
6-2-4-1: Distribution Of Obscene Literature
6-2-4-2: Prostitution
6-2-5: Fraud And Theft
6-2-6: Drug Related Offenses
6-2-6-1: Possession, Use, Sale, Purchase, And Transportation Of Cannabis
6-2-6-2: Public Display And Sale Of Drug Paraphernalia
6-2-7: Noise
6-2-8: Residential Picketing
6-2-9: Playing Ball On Streets
6-2-10: Fortunetelling, Seances And The Like
6-2-11: Tattooing
6-2-12: Injury To Birds
6-2-13: Firearms And Weapons
6-2-14: Intoxicating Compounds
6-2-1: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PERSON:
6-2-1-1: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
It shall be unlawful for any person wilfully, maliciously, intentionally or
unnecessarily to disturb the peace and quiet of another or of any neighborhood
or family or religious congregation or other assembly by loud or unusual noises
or indecent behavior or by offensive or unbecoming conduct or for any person to
threaten, quarrel, fight or provoke an assault or battery or curse or swear or
utter any obscene or vulgar or indecent language in the presence of another.
(1963 Code)
6-2-1-2: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the following acts:
   A.   Act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb another and to
provoke a breach of the peace.
   B.   Act with intent to annoy another, make a telephone call, whether or not
conversation thereby ensues.
   C.   Transmit in any manner to the fire department of any city, town,
village or fire protection district a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time
of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such
fire exists.
   D.   Transmit in any manner to another false alarm to the effect that a bomb
or other explosive of any nature is concealed in such place that its explosion
would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such transmission that there
is no reasonable ground for believing that such bomb or explosive is concealed
in such place.
   E.   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public officer or public
employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed, knowing at
the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing
that such an offense has been committed.
   F.   Enters upon the property of another for a lewd or unlawful purpose;
deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window or
opening in it.
   G.   Engage in any illegal or improper diversion or to use insulting,
indecent or immoral language, or to be guilty of any indecent, insulting or
immoral conduct or behavior. (Ord. M-40-69, 8-18-1969)
6-2-1-3: ASSAULT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit assault, which is hereby defined
as any conduct which places another in reasonable apprehension of receiving a
battery. (1963 Code)
6-2-1-4: BATTERY 1
:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit battery. A person commits a
battery if he intentionally or knowingly without legal justification and by any
means causes bodily harm to any individual or makes physical contact of an
insulting or provoking nature with an individual. (1963 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/12-3.
6-2-1-5: ASSEMBLY, UNLAWFUL 1
:
It shall be unlawful for two (2) or more persons to assemble together for the
purpose of disturbing the peace or for the purpose of committing an unlawful
act and not to disperse upon the command of an officer so to do. (1963 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 65 ILCS 5/11-5-2.
6-2-1-6: COLLECTING CROWDS 1
:
It shall be unlawful for any person to collect within the city a crowd of
people to the annoyance of the citizens thereof or to the annoyance or injury
of the public. (1956 Code §29-3)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-5-2; 720 ILCS 5/25-1.
6-2-2: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY:
6-2-2-1: INJURE OR DAMAGE PROPERTY 1
:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully, maliciously, recklessly or
negligently injure, deface, mutilate, remove, pull down, break or in any manner
interfere with or molest or secrete or destroy any real or personal property
owned by or under the control of any person including the state, county, city
or any other governmental body. It shall also be unlawful for anyone to possess
spray paint, markers or any device that could be used in the defacement of
property, with the intent of committing such act. (Ord. M-61-01, 11-5-2001)
 
Notes
1 2. 720 ILCS 5/21-1.
6-2-2-2: POSTING BILLS 1
:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, paste, post, paint, print or nail
any handbill, sign, poster, advertisement or notice of any kind on any parkway,
curbstone, flagstone or any other portion or part of any sidewalk, or upon any
tree, lamppost, hitchpost, telegraph pole, hydrant or upon any private wall,
door or gate, without the consent in writing of the owner of the wall, door or
gate; provided, however, that this section shall not prevent posting by proper
city and county officials of election signs, polling place signs and other
signs or placards necessary under the law to the conduct of elections.
Temporary residential real estate open house signs may be placed in parkways as
provided in section
8-6-4 of this code. (Ord. M-45-91, 10-7-1991)
 
Notes
1 3. 65 ILCS 5/11-80-14.
6-2-2-3: WATER FLOWING UPON STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any water to flow into or upon any
public thoroughfare so as to cause the existence of a hazardous condition.
(Ord. M-77-81, 11-16-1981)
6-2-2-4: LETTING PREMISES FOR UNLAWFUL PURPOSES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to rent, use or allow to be used any
building or property owned by him, for any purpose whereby riotous or
disorderly persons are gathered. (1956 Code §29-6)
6-2-3: TRESPASSING:
   A.   Whoever enters upon the land or building or any part thereof of another
after receiving, immediately prior to such entry, notice from the owner or
occupant that such entrance is forbidden, or remains upon the land or building,
or any part thereof of another after receiving notice from the owner or
occupant to depart, shall be guilty of trespass, and shall be fined as provided
in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. A person shall be deemed to have received notice from the
owner or occupant within the meaning of this subsection, if any one of the
following has occurred:
      1.   If he has been notified personally either orally or in writing,
      2.   If he has executed an Illinois gaming board form 18, voluntary self-
exclusion, or
      3.   If a printed or written notice forbidding such entry has been
conspicuously posted or exhibited at any entrance of such land or building, or
forbidden part thereof.
   B.   For purposes of this section, the term "exclusion list" shall refer to
any list maintained by the Illinois gaming board which contains the identities
of persons who are to be excluded or ejected from any licensed gaming operation
in any jurisdiction.
   C.   For purposes of this section, the term "excluded person" shall include
any person whose name appears on an exclusion list, as well as any person whose
name does not appear on an exclusion list but who is or has been excluded or
ejected pursuant to section 5(c)(12) of the riverboat gambling act 1
or as a result of meeting one or more of the criteria in section 3000.720 of
title 86 of the Illinois administrative code.
   D.   Any person who is an excluded person or whose name appears on an
exclusion list and who enters, attempts to enter, is found in, or remains
anywhere in a building housing gambling activity which is subject to regulation
by the Illinois gaming board pursuant to the Illinois riverboat gambling act 2
shall be guilty of trespass and shall be subject to a five hundred dollar
($500.00) penalty. (Ord. M-23-12, 7-16-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 10/5(c)(12).
2 2. 230 ILCS 10/1 et seq.
6-2-4: OBSCENE AND INDECENT ACTS 1
:
   A.   Indecent Exposure: It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in a
state of nudity or in any indecent or lewd dress or condition in any public
place or make any indecent exposure of their person or private parts thereof or
the private parts of another.
   B.   Obscene Conduct: It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or
stool in any place open to the public view, or to be guilty of any lewd,
lascivious or obscene conduct or to sing any lewd or obscene song, ballad or
other words in any public place or any other place where other persons are
present or indecently to exhibit any animal. (1963 Code; amd. Ord. M-63-99, 12-
20-1999; Ord. M-9-21, 8-16-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/11-9.
6-2-4-1: DISTRIBUTION OF OBSCENE LITERATURE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit, pass, give or deliver to
another any obscene, lewd or indecent book, pamphlet, picture, card, print,
paper, writing, mold, cast or figure or to have same in his possession, as
further defined herein:
   A.   Elements Of The Offense: A person commits obscenity when, with
knowledge of the nature or content thereof, or recklessly failing to exercise
reasonable inspection which would have disclosed the nature or content thereof,
he:
      1.   Sells, delivers or provides, or offers or agrees to sell, deliver or
provide any obscene writing, picture, record or other representation or
embodiment of the obscene; or
      2.   Presents or directs an obscene play, dance or other performance or
participates directly in that portion thereof which makes it obscene; or
      3.   Publishes, exhibits or otherwise makes available anything obscene;
or
      4.   Performs an obscene act or otherwise presents an obscene exhibition
of his body for gain; or
      5.   Creates, buys, procures or possesses obscene matter or material with
intent to disseminate it in violation of this section, or of the penal laws or
regulations of any other jurisdiction; or
      6.   Advertises or otherwise promotes the sale of material represented or
held out by him to be obscene, whether or not it is obscene.
   B.   Obscene Defined: A thing is obscene if, considered as a whole, its
predominant appeal is to prurient interest, that is, a shameful or morbid
interest in nudity, sex or excretion, and if it goes substantially beyond
customary limits of candor in description or representation of such matters. A
thing is obscene even though obscenity is latent, as in the case of undeveloped
photographs.
   C.   Interpretation Of Evidence: Obscenity shall be judged with reference to
ordinary adults, except that it shall be judged with reference to children or
other specially susceptible audiences if it appears from the character of the
material or the circumstances of its dissemination to be specially designed for
or directed to such an audience.
Where circumstances of production, presentation, sale, dissemination,
distribution or publicity indicate that material is being commercially
exploited for the sake of its prurient appeal, such evidence is probative with
respect to the nature of the matter and can justify the conclusion that the
matter is utterly without redeeming social importance.
In any prosecution for an offense under this section, evidence shall be
admissible to show:
      1.   The character of the audience for which the material was designed or
to which it was directed.
      2.   What the predominant appeal of the material would be for ordinary
adults or a special audience, and what effect if any, it would probably have on
the behavior of such people.
      3.   The artistic, literary, scientific, educational or other merits of
the material, or absence thereof.
      4.   The degree, if any, of public acceptance of the material in this
state.
      5.   Appeal to prurient interest, or absence thereof, in advertising or
other promotion of the material.
      6.   Purpose of the author, creator, publisher or disseminator.
   D.   Prima Facie Evidence: The creation, purchase, procurement or possession
of a mold, engraved plate or other embodiment of obscenity specially adapted
for reproducing multiple copies, or the possession of more than three (3)
copies of obscene material shall be prima facie evidence of an intent to
disseminate.
   E.   Affirmative Defenses: It shall be an affirmative defense to obscenity
that the dissemination:
      1.   Was not for gain and was made to personal associates other than
children under eighteen (18) years of age.
      2.   Was to institutions or individuals having scientific or other
special justification for possession of such material. (Ord. M-20-82, 3-15-
1982)
6-2-4-2: PROSTITUTION:
   A.   General Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to pursue or
advertise in any manner her vocation as a prostitute, or for any person to
advertise the profession of a prostitute or solicit for a prostitute 1
.
   B.   House Of Prostitution: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
assist in the keeping of a house of ill fame or prostitution, or knowingly to
reside therein, or knowingly to rent, lease or permit any person to occupy any
house or room owned, leased or controlled by him for this purpose 2
. (1963 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/11-14; 65 ILCS 5/11-5-4.
2 2. 720 ILCS 5/11-17.
6-2-5: FRAUD AND THEFT:
   A.   Admission Fees, Fraudulently Avoiding Payment Of: It shall be unlawful
for any person fraudulently to enter, without payment of the proper admission
fee, any theater, ballroom, lecture, concert or other place where admission
fees are charged; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be
deemed to prohibit or restrict the free admission of police officers engaged in
the performance of police duties to any place of public entertainment or
amusement.
   B.   False Pretenses: It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain any
food, drink, goods, wares or merchandise under false pretenses, or to enter any
public place and call for refreshments or other articles and receive and refuse
to pay for same, or depart without paying for or satisfying the person from
whom he received the food, goods, wares and merchandise. (1963 Code)
   C.   Petit Theft: It shall be unlawful for any person to commit petit theft
which is hereby defined as a theft when the property taken is of a value of
less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) 1
. (Ch. 29 Art. II, 1956 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. 720 ILCS 5/16-1.
6-2-6: DRUG RELATED OFFENSES 1
:
 
Notes
1 4. See also chapter 3 of this title regarding offenses relating to minors.
6-2-6-1: POSSESSION, USE, SALE, PURCHASE, AND TRANSPORTATION OF CANNABIS:
   A.   Possession, Use, Sale, Purchase, and Transportation; Definition:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to possess, consume,
use, purchase, obtain, transport, or sell any quantity of any substance
containing cannabis , except in compliance with the Cannabis Regulation and Tax
Act, 410 ILCS 705/1 et seq. or the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis
Program Act, 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq, as each may be amended.
      2.   It shall be a violation of this section for any person knowingly to
use or consume, or allow someone else to use or consume, cannabis on the
premises of any privately owned commercial facility that is open to members of
the general public, including, without limitation, retail stores, restaurants,
taverns, theaters, and other recreational facilities, except as otherwise
specifically permitted pursuant to the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act and the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act.
      3.   It shall be a violation of this section for any person to smoke
cannabis in any place where smoking is prohibited pursuant to the Smoke Free
Illinois Act, 410 ILCS 82/1 et seq.
      4.   As used in this section cannabis includes marijuana, hashish and
other substances that are identified as including any parts of the plant
cannabis sativa and including derivatives or subspecies, such as indica, of all
strains of cannabis, whether growing or not; the seeds thereof, the resin
extracted from any part of the plant; and any compound, manufacture, salt
derivative, mixture, or preparation of such plant, its seeds, or resin,
including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other naturally produced
cannabinol derivatives whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction;
however, "cannabis" does not not include the mature stalks of such plant, fiber
produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any
other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the
mature stalks (except the resin extracted from it), fiber, oil or cake, or the
sterilized seed of the plant which is incapable of germination. "Cannabis" does
not include industrial hemp as defined and authorized under the Industrial Hemp
Act. "Cannabis" also means concentrate and cannabis-infused products.
   B.   Unlawful Assembly By Minors: It shall be unlawful for any person under
the age of twenty one (21) years to remain in any motor vehicle, watercraft,
room, dwelling, shed, garage, yard or other area when said person knows, or has
reason to know, that one or more other persons under the age of twenty one (21)
years located in such motor vehicle, watercraft, room, dwelling, shed, garage,
yard or other area are in possession of controlled substance prohibited by
either 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/1 et seq., or 570/1 et seq.
   C.   Responsibility Of Owner Or Occupant For Unlawful Assembly By Minors: It
shall be unlawful for any person who has ownership or control of any motor
vehicle, watercraft, room, dwelling, shed, garage, yard or other area to
knowingly permit or allow one or more persons under the age of twenty one (21)
years to assemble or be assembled on or in such motor vehicle, watercraft,
room, dwelling, shed, garage, yard or other area when said persons are in
possession of a controlled substance prohibited by either 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 550/1 et seq., or 570/1 et seq.
   D.   Violation: Any person found guilty of a violation of any provision of
this section shall be subject to a fine as provided in the general penalty in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each and every offense. (Ord. M-68-94, 10-17-1994; amd.
2002 Code; Ord. M-8-22, 4-4-2022)
6-2-6-2: PUBLIC DISPLAY AND SALE OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Definitions:
 
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: Any drug or controlled substance as defined in 720
                      Illinois Compiled Statutes.
CANNABIS:             As defined in Section
                      6-2-6-1 of this Code.
                      (Also articles or equipment commonly used in the
                      consumption or ingestion of controlled substances or
                      cannabis.) Includes, but is not limited to, the following
                      enumerated articles: cocaine spoons, pot pipes, water
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA :  pipes, hypodermic needles, syringes, roach clips and
                      literature devoted wholly or substantially to describing
                      or illustrating explicitly the consumption or ingestion
                      of a controlled substance which tends to promote the use
                      of a controlled substance.
 
   B.   Displays And Exhibits: It is unlawful for any person publicly to
exhibit or display for sale any drug paraphernalia, articles or equipment
commonly used in the consumption or ingestion of controlled substances except
where such articles or equipment are prescribed for strictly medical purposes
and are used as such.
   C.   Sale To Minors: It is unlawful for any person to sell or offer to sell
any paraphernalia, articles or equipment commonly used in the consumption or
ingestion of controlled substances or cannabis to any person under the age of
twenty-one (21) years except where such articles or equipment are prescribed
for strictly medical purposes and are used as such. (Ord. M-5-79, 2-19-1979)
   D.   Unlawful To Possess: It shall be unlawful for anyone to knowingly
possess an item of drug paraphernalia with the intent to use it in ingesting,
inhaling or otherwise introducing cannabis or a controlled substance into the
human body or in preparing controlled substance for that use. (Ord. M-60-01,
11-5-2001)
   E.   Exception: This section shall not apply to items used solely for the
authorized consumption of cannabis pursuant to the Cannabis Regulation and Tax
Act, 410 ILCS 705/1 or the Illinois Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot
Program Act, 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq. (Ord. M-8-22, 4-4-2022)
6-2-7: NOISE:
   A.   Applicability: Except as provided in subsection B of this section, this
section applies to all sound or noise emitted from a source located, or caused
by an activity conducted, within the corporate boundaries of the city.
   B.   Exemptions:
      1.   This section does not apply to sound or noise emitted or caused by:
         a.   Licensed waste haulers operating between the hours of seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. on Mondays through Saturdays.
         b.   All work and activities related to the construction or demolition
of any building or structure, or the improvement of any parcel of property,
performed between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:
00) P.M. on Mondays through Saturdays and the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M.
and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on Sundays and official holidays of the city. The
work and activities described in this subsection B1b includes, without
limitation: grading; excavation; demolition; alteration; repair; landscape and
hardscape work; loading, unloading, moving, or preparing any materials,
supplies, equipment or personnel; and the idling of engines of motor vehicles
exceeding eight thousand (8,000) pounds' gross vehicle weight, while such
vehicles are standing upon or adjacent to work sites.
         c.   All vehicles and equipment operated by the city, any other unit
of government, and any utility, or any of their contractors or subcontractors,
in the course of performing services or work, including, without limitation,
public safety and emergency response services, for the general welfare of the
public.
         d.   All work, activities, vehicles, and equipment related to the
removal of snow and ice from public or private property.
         e.   A lawfully organized, permitted, and supervised civic or public
celebration or parade.
         f.   Aircraft operated in accordance with, or pursuant to, federal law
and regulations and any aircraft operating under technical difficulties or in
any kind of distress.
         g.   Vehicles on state roads and interstate highways.
         h.   Gatherings of five (5) or more people at a residential property
occurring during times other than "quiet hours" (defined in subsection E of
this section) and emitting noise that does not exceed seventy five (75) dBA
measured at any point at or beyond the lot line of the property at which the
social gathering is located.
         i.   Special or temporary events sponsored by the city or held
pursuant to a temporary license issued by the city pursuant to
title 4, chapter 3 of this code.
         j.   Railroad trains in transit through the city.
         k. Generators used to provide electricity to buildings in the event of
a power outage. Noises emanating from regular generator testing and maintenance
cycles is also exempt during the hours of eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. to seven
o’clock (7:00) P.M. on Mondays through Saturdays.
      2.   The city council has the power, but not an obligation, to grant a
variance to the requirements of this section for noise to be emitted on a
specific date and for a specific duration of time after: a) receiving an
application for a variance describing the date, times, and activity for which
the variance is requested, and any other information the city may require, b)
conducting a public review of the application, and c) passing a resolution
authorizing the variance.
   C.   Effect On Other Actions: Nothing in this section impairs any cause of
action or legal remedy, including, without limitation, actions under the rules
and regulations of the Illinois pollution control board, of any private or
public person or entity that arises from the emission of noise.
   D.   Excessive Noises Prohibited: Excluding those exemptions set forth in
subsection B of this section, it is unlawful for any person to make, cause to
be made, or continue, within the corporate limits of the city, any sound or
noise that is determined to be excessive pursuant to the standards set forth in
this section.
   E.   Definition And Measurement Of Excessive Noise:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, "noise" or "sound
level" means the weighted sound pressure level obtained by the use of: a) a
sound level meter that meets the American National Standards Institute (ANSI)
standards for type 1 or type 2 sound level meters, or an instrument and
associated recording and analyzing equipment that will provide equivalent data,
and b) frequency weighting network "A" as specified in the most recent ANSI
specifications for sound level meters.
      2.   Only members of the police department or other authorized city
employees who have received training that meets ANSI standards in the operation
of approved sound meters will obtain sound levels to determine whether sound
levels comply with this section.
      3.   "Quiet hours" means the period of time beginning at ten o'clock (10:
00) P.M. and ending at seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following day, unless the
following day is a Saturday, Sunday or official city holiday, in which case
"quiet hours" means the period of time beginning at eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
and ending at ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. the following day. Official city
holidays are New Year's Day, Martin Luther King Day, Presidents' Day, Memorial
Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day,
day after Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day.
      4.   During quiet hours, "excessive noise" means:
         a.   Sound emitting from any property, or inside any structure
thereon, that exceeds: 1) either sixty (60) dBA measured at any location at or
beyond the lot line of that property or fifteen (15) dBA above current noise
ambient levels, whichever is greater, or 2) forty (40) dBA measured at any
location inside any other structure.
         b. Sound emitting from any source not located on a property or inside
a structure, including, without limitation, vehicles and equipment located on a
public right of way, that exceeds: 1) either sixty (60) dBA, or fifteen (15)
dBA above current ambient noise levels, whichever is greater, measured at any
point located more than thirty feet (30') away from the sound source, or 2)
forty (40) dBA measured at a location inside any structure.
      5.   At all times other than quiet hours, "excessive noise" means:
         a.   Sound emitting from any property, or inside any structure
thereon, that exceeds: 1) either seventy five (75) dBA measured at any location
at or beyond the lot line of that property or fifteen (15) dBA above current
ambient noise levels, whichever is greater, or 2) fifty five (55) dBA measured
at any location inside any other structure.
         b.   Sound emitting from any source not located on a property or
inside a structure, including, without limitation, vehicles and equipment
located on a public right of way, that exceeds: 1) either seventy five (75) dBA
or fifteen (15) dBA above current ambient noise levels, whichever is greater,
measured at any point located more than thirty feet (30') away from the sound
source, or 2) fifty five (55) dBA measured at a location inside any structure.
   F.   Definition And Measurement Of Excessive Noise From Amplified Sound: In
addition to the other prohibitions on excessive noise set forth in this
section, it is unlawful for any person to cause or permit any sound production
or amplification device to emit sound that crosses a property line and raises
the total sound levels on another property above the neighborhood residual
sound level by more than: 1) three (3) dBC during quiet hours or 2) six (6) dBC
during all other times measured from a location within the residence of a
complainant. These sound level measurements shall be conducted with the sound
level meter using frequency weighting network "C", "fast" response, as
specified in the most recent ANSI specifications for sound level meters.
   G.   Definition Of Ambient Noise Level: The existing sound levels at a given
location which exists as a result of the combined noise sources in that
location of all sound sources, excluding the contribution of a source or
sources under investigation for potential violation of any provision on this
section.
   H.   Violations: Violators of any provision of this section will be fined in
accordance with the general penalty set forth in
title 1, chapter 4 of this code for each offense. (Ord. M-32-14, 9-15-2014;
amd. Ord. M-7-19, 4-1-2019)
6-2-8: RESIDENTIAL PICKETING:
It is unlawful to picket before or about the residence or dwelling of any
person, except when the residence or dwelling is used as a place of business.
However, this does not apply to a person peacefully picketing his own residence
or dwelling and does not prohibit the peaceful picketing of the place of
holding a meeting or assembly on premises commonly used to discuss subjects of
general public interest. (Ord. M-75-81, 11-16-1981)
6-2-9: PLAYING BALL ON STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to play or throw any ball to and fro upon
any public thoroughfare in the city. (Ch. 29 Art. II, 1956 Code)
6-2-10: FORTUNETELLING, SEANCES AND THE LIKE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to protect the public health,
safety and welfare of the citizens of the city.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Advertise or display, by sign, circular, handbill or in any
newspaper, periodical, magazine or other publication or by any other means, to
tell fortunes or reveal the future, to find or restore lost or stolen property,
to locate oil wells, gold or silver, or other ore or metal or natural product,
to restore lost love, friendship or affection, to reunite or procure lovers,
husbands, wives, lost relatives or friends, or to give advice in business
affairs or advice of any kind or nature to others, for or without pay, by means
of occult or psychic powers, faculties or forces, clairvoyance, psychology,
psychometry, spirits, mediumship, seership, prophecy, astrology, palmistry,
necromancy or like crafty science, cards, talismans, charms, potions, magnetism
or magnetized articles or substance, oriental mysteries or magic of any kind or
nature.
      2.   Obtain money or property from another by fraudulent devices and
practices in the name of, or by means of spirits, mediumship, palmistry, card
reading, astrology, seership or like crafty science or fortunetelling of any
kind.
      3.   Hold or give any public or private meeting, gatherings, circle or
seance of any kind in the name of spiritualism or of any other religious body,
society or denomination, and therein practice or permit to be practiced fraud
or deception of any kind.
   C.   Exception: Notwithstanding the foregoing, none of the above shall apply
to any fortuneteller, reader or advisor establishment licensed by the city
prior to the passage of this section. (Ord. M-10-96, 3-4-1996)
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be subject to a fine as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. M-10-96, 3-4-1996; amd. 2002 Code)
6-2-11: TATTOOING:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to protect the public health,
safety and welfare of the citizens of the city.
   B.   Definition: For the purposes of this section, "tattoo" or "tattooing"
shall mean to insert pigment under the surface of the skin of a human being, by
pricking with a needle or otherwise, so as to produce an indelible mark or
figure visible through the skin.
   C.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for any person to tattoo a human
being except that tattooing may be performed:
      1.   On persons at least 18 years old within a body art establishment
operated in full compliance with applicable state regulations and the city
code, including, without limitation, the zoning ordinance and the business
license requirements set forth in title 4 of this code; or
      2.   For medical purposes by a person licensed as a physician or
otherwise authorized by the medical practice act of 1987 of the state of
Illinois 1 .
   D.   Exception: Notwithstanding the foregoing, none of the above shall apply
to any tattooing operation licensed by the city prior to the passage of this
section.
   E.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be subject to a fine as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. M-11-96, 3-18-1996; amd. 2002 Code;
Ord. M-29-20, 11-2-2020) the provisions of this section shall be subject to a
fine as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. M-11-96, 3-18-1996; amd. 2002 Code;
Ord. M-29-20, 11-2-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 60/1 et seq.
6-2-12: INJURY TO BIRDS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to kill or wound, or attempt to kill or
wound, by use of a firearm, slingshot, bow and arrow or otherwise, any bird
other than English sparrows, or to take the eggs or young of any bird 1
. (Ch. 29 Art. III, 1956 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/11-9.
6-2-13: FIREARMS AND WEAPONS:
   A.   Concealed Weapons:
      1.   Carrying: It shall be unlawful for any person to carry or wear under
his clothes or concealed about his person, any pistol, revolver or slingshot,
cross knuckles, or knuckles of lead, brass or other metal, bowie knife, dirk
knife or dirk, razor or dagger, or any other dangerous or deadly weapon. (Ch.
28 Art. II, 1956 Code)
      2.   Confiscation: Any weapon duly adjudged by any court to have been
worn or carried by any person in violation of the foregoing, shall be forfeited
or confiscated, and shall be so adjudged. (Ch. 28 Art. II, 1956 Code; amd. 2002
Code)
      3.   Exemptions: The prohibitions of this section as to carrying
concealed weapons shall not apply to officers or members of the police force of
the city when on duty, nor to any officer of any court whose duty may be to
serve warrants or to make arrests; nor to persons who have obtained a license
to carry concealed weapons under the laws of the state. (Ch. 28 Art. II, 1956
Code)
   B.   Discharge Of Firearms: It shall be unlawful for any person to fire or
discharge any gun, pistol or other firearm within the city except upon premises
used by a shooting gallery, rifle club, gun club or rifle or revolver range for
which a permit has been granted by the city council.
   C.   Air Guns, Bows And Arrows And Slingshots:
      1.   Definitions:
   AIR GUNS: Any gun, rifle or pistol, by whatever name, which is designed to
expel a projectile, including darts, by the action of compressed air or gas or
by the action of a spring or elastic, but does not mean firearms.
   BOW AND ARROW: The prime equipment used in archery and/or bow hunting,
homemade or otherwise, and includes all the various toy bows and arrows and
type of dart, whether the arrows or darts are pointed or snubnosed.
   MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   SLINGSHOTS: A device of any kind, shape or size whatsoever, used for the
propelling of any stone or other projectile either by elastic or spring action
or by the use of elastic or string in conjunction with the physical act of
throwing.
      2.   Prohibited Acts:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, give, rent, lend or
otherwise transfer any slingshot, or materials for the making thereof, or
projectile therefor, within the city. It shall be unlawful for any person to
use a slingshot within the city, the purpose of this subsection being to
completely prohibit the use of slingshots within the city.
         b.   It shall be unlawful for any person to give, sell, rent, lend or
otherwise transfer any air gun, or materials for the making thereof, or
projectile therefor, or any type of bow and arrow, or materials for the making
thereof, to a minor within the city, except where the relationship of parent
and child, guardian and ward, or adult instructor or supervisor and pupil,
exists between such person and the minor.
         c.   It shall be unlawful for any minor to carry any exposed air gun
or any type of bow and arrow on the streets, alleys, public roads or public
lands of the city unless accompanied by an adult. It shall be unlawful for any
person to discharge any air gun or any arrow from a bow from or across any
street or any public land or across private property of any other person
without permission. It is not the intent of this subsection to restrict or
discourage the supervised and related use of air guns or bows and arrows as a
sport, hobby or recreation in suitable locations.
      3.   Violation: Any person who makes any statement in connection with the
purchase, renting, lending, giving or otherwise transferring an air gun, or
materials for the making thereof, or projectile therefor, or bow and arrow or
dart, or materials for the making thereof, falsely representing himself or any
one else as being over the age of eighteen (18) years, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Ch. 29 Art. VI, 1956 Code)
6-2-14: INTOXICATING COMPOUNDS:
No person shall ingest, breathe, inhale, or drink any compound, liquid, or
chemical for the purpose of inducing a condition of intoxication, stupefaction,
or any manner changing, distorting, or disturbing the auditory, visual, or
mental process. (Ord. M-26-02, 5-20-2002)
CHAPTER 3
CHILDREN AND MINORS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Parental Responsibility
6-3-2: Delivery And Possession Of Weapons
6-3-3: Truancy
6-3-4: Curfew
6-3-5: Delinquency, Encouraging
6-3-6: Sexually Explicit Materials
6-3-1: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Definitions: The following definitions shall apply in the
interpretation and enforcement of this section:
   LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian or given custody of a minor by a
court, but it does not include a person appointed guardian or given custody of
a minor under the juvenile court act, as amended, in the state of Illinois.
   MINOR: Any person above the age of eleven (11) but not yet nineteen (19)
years of age.
   B.   Exercise Of Parental Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for the
parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor residing with such parent or
legal guardian to fail to exercise proper parental responsibility by allowing,
failing to supervise, or permitting such minor to commit any violation of a
city ordinance or state statute concerning battery, curfew, disorderly conduct,
fireworks, indecent exposure, intimidation, possession of spray paint or
permanent markers, obscene conduct, vandalism, trespass, truancy, loitering,
possession of alcoholic beverages, cannabis, controlled substance, or weapons
of any kind.
   C.   Violation: A parent or legal guardian shall be in violation of this
section if:
      1.   The minor has been either adjudicated to be in violation of any
ordinance or state statute as described in subsection B of this section (except
if found to be not guilty); or has incurred nonjudicial sanctions from any
peace officer, police officer, or conservator of the peace resulting from an
admission of guilt to an offense of an ordinance or state statute as described
in subsection B of this section; and
      2.   The parent or legal guardian has received a written notice by
certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service in
substantially the following form:
   LEGAL NOTICE
To:   (Parents' Names)
From:   Des Plaines Police Department
You are hereby notified that (minor's name) has been involved in the commission
of (specify offense and date of offense), which is a violation of a state
statute or city ordinance. If your minor child is again involved in a violation
of state statutes or city ordinances involving battery, curfew, disorderly
conduct, fireworks, indecent exposure, intimidation, possession of spray paint
or permanent markers, obscene conduct, vandalism, trespass, truancy, loitering,
possession of alcoholic beverages, cannabis, or controlled substance, or any
other offense of willful or malicious nature to persons or property within the
next two (2) years, you will be charged with parental irresponsibility.
Conviction for said offense can result in a fine of not less than twenty five
dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). You are
hereby notified that you must exercise proper parental responsibility over said
minor by controlling his unlawful conduct.
      3.   The minor, within two (2) years of the receipt of the notice by the
parent or legal guardian, has been either adjudicated to have committed, has
been charged with the violation (except if found to be not guilty), or has
admitted to have committed any violation of any ordinance or state statute as
described in subsection A of this section.
   D.   Appearance In Court: It is the policy of the city of Des Plaines that a
parent or legal guardian of the minor is charged with a violation of an
ordinance or state statute which requires a minor's appearance in court, and
that a parent or legal guardian be required to accompany the minor to court. To
this end, it is hereby directed that a notice in substantially the following
form be sent to the parents or legal guardians of the minor.
   LEGAL NOTICE
To:   (Parents' Names)
From:   Des Plaines Police Department
You are hereby notified that (minor's name) has been charged with an offense
which is a violation of a city ordinance or state statute, and which requires
the appearance of said minor in court. You are further notified that one of the
parents of said minor must appear in court before the case will be tried or be
disposed.
If you fail to appear, the city attorney has been directed to have issued a
subpoena to bring you into court. Failure to obey a subpoena can result in
contempt of court, with a fine or imprisonment as the penalty.
(Ord. M-19-02, 4-1-2002)
   E.   Penalty: Any person convicted of any violation of the provisions of
this section shall be fined as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and in addition may be sentenced to
probation or conditional discharge with the conditions being that the parent or
legal guardian make restitution or reparation in any amount not to exceed
actual loss or damage to property or pecuniary loss. The court shall determine
the amount and conditions of payment. Where the conditions or payment have not
been satisfied, the court may, at any time prior to the expiration or
termination of the period of probation or of conditional discharge, impose an
additional fine. The city attorney, at his/her discretion, shall seek to
nonsuit and ask for dismissal of charge upon satisfactory termination of the
conditions of conditional discharge as set forth by the trial judge. In
addition to and in lieu of penalties set forth above, a period of community
service not to exceed one hundred sixty (160) hours may be imposed on the minor
and parent or legal guardian who violate any provision of this section.
Community service may consist of manual labor provided at the school in which
the child attends, the city, or it may include library work, documented written
projects being submitted by both parent and child, parent effective training,
or any other suitable project that the parent and child might participate in
that will cause a positive behavioral change. The court is asked to be firm but
flexible in the assigning of community service with the intent to quickly
modify negative behavioral traits. (Ord. M-19-02, 4-1-2002; amd. 2002 Code)
   F.   Damage To Persons Or Property:
      1.   Liability Of Parent: The parent or legal guardian of an
unemancipated minor who resides with such parent or legal guardian is liable
for actual damages for the wilful or malicious acts of such minor which cause
injury to a person or property.
      2.   Recovery Of Damage Costs; Limit: Recovery of damages under this
section shall include actual damages occasioned by such minor, which damages
shall be payable to the person or entity entitled to such damages; court costs
and/or administrative filing fees and attorney costs and fees incurred in
enforcement of this section, and any attorney costs and fees, court costs or
administrative fees, if any, incurred by the city in the prosecution of such
minor for a violation of any ordinance, law or statute prohibiting wilful and
malicious acts causing injury to a person or property, if such minor is
convicted of violating such a law. In no event shall the amount recoverable
under this section exceed the sum of two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00).
      3.   Judgments; Applicability Of Other Laws: Section 12-107 of the code
of civil procedure 1
as amended, is not applicable to judgments obtained under this section.
      4.   Common Law Damages: Nothing in this section shall affect the
recovery of damages in any other cause of action where the liability of the
parent or legal guardian is predicated on a common law basis. (Ord. M-19-02, 4-
1-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. 735 ILCS 5/12-107.
6-3-2: DELIVERY AND POSSESSION OF WEAPONS:
   A.   Unlawful Possession: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age
of eighteen (18) years to be in possession of any of the following items:
      1.   Bowie, switchblade, ballistic knives, throwing stars or other edged
weapons as defined by 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-1(1);
      2.   Metallic knuckles or nunchakus;
      3.   Slingshots;
      4.   Arrows designed for firing from a bow or crossbow device, except
when such person is engaged in lawful hunting, supervised target shooting or
the otherwise legal transportation of such device;
      5.   Stun gun or taser;
      6.   Any device or attachment of any kind designed, used or intended for
use in silencing the report of a firearm;
      7.   Machine gun, as defined by 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-1(7);
      8.   Any bomb, bombshell, grenade, bottle or other container containing
an explosive substance of over one-quarter (1/4) ounce for like purposes, such
as, but not limited to, black powder bombs, molotov cocktails, pipe bombs or
artillery projectiles;
      9.   Firearms, or the ammunition therefor, as defined by 430 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 65/1.1, except when such person is engaged in lawful hunting,
supervised target shooting, or the otherwise legal transportation of such
device;
      10.   Fireworks, as defined by 425 Illinois Compiled Statutes 30/2.
   B.   Delivery To Minors: It shall be unlawful for any person to deliver,
sell, give or offer to any person, under the age of eighteen (18) years, any of
the items listed in subsections A1 through A10 of this section.
   C.   Parental Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for any parent or legal
guardian to permit or allow any person under eighteen (18) years of age, which
person is the legal responsibility of said parent or legal guardian, to be in
or to come into the unsupervised possession of any of the items listed in
subsection A1 through A10 of this section. (Ord. M-69-94, 10-17-1994)
   D.   Penalty: Any person found guilty of a violation of any provision of
this section shall be subject to a fine as provided in the general penalty in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each and every offense. (Ord. M-69-94, 10-17-1994; amd.
2002 Code)
6-3-3: TRUANCY:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following terms,
words and their derivations shall have the following meanings:
   CRIMINAL ACTS: The intentional commission of an act or acts which violate
the statutes of the state of Illinois or the ordinances of the city.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN: Any foster parent, or any person appointed guardian or
otherwise awarded custody of a minor by a court of law in this state, or any
person appointed guardian or given custody of a minor under the Illinois
juvenile court act, but shall not include any person appointed guardian only of
the estate of a minor.
   MINOR: Any juvenile under the age of eighteen (18).
   PARENT: The father or mother of a minor child, whether by birth or adoption.
The word "parent" as used in this section shall also be deemed to mean legal
guardian. In the event that the minor's parents are divorced or separated
within the meaning of the Illinois marriage and dissolution of marriage act 1
, the parent having lawful physical custody of the minor shall be deemed to be
the parent authorized to give consent as required by this section.
   VALID CAUSE: For absence means illness, observance of a religious holiday,
death in the immediate family, family emergency and other situations beyond the
control of the minor as determined by the board of education in each district,
or such other circumstances which cause reasonable concern to the parent for
the health or safety of the minor.
   B.   Truancy Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age
of eighteen (18) enrolled in a public, private or parochial school within the
corporate limits of the city to absent himself from attendance at school,
during such period when school is in session, without the permission of his
parent or legal guardian for absences for "valid cause" as defined herein or by
the school in which the minor is enrolled. Any person who shall so absent
himself from school attendance without valid cause or parental permission, as
provided herein, shall be guilty of the offense of truancy and, upon
conviction, shall be subject to the penalties hereinafter set forth in this
section. Emergency or unforeseen absences due to illness or other causes beyond
the control of the person so absenting himself from school without parental
permission shall not constitute truancy if permission for such absence has
substantially been obtained from the parent or lawful guardian and such
permission is submitted in writing to the proper school authorities within
twenty four (24) hours after such absence.
   C.   Parental Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for a parent or legal
guardian to permit his minor child or ward to violate this section.
   D.   Parental Neglect: It shall be unlawful for a resident of the city, as a
parent of a minor residing with said parent, to fail to exercise reasonable
parental control which results in the minor being convicted of the commission
of "criminal acts", as herein defined, or allow the minor to become delinquent
in accordance with the juvenile court act as defined by the statutes of the
state of Illinois.
   E.   Notice Of Child Arrest: Whenever a minor shall be arrested or detained
for the commission of any criminal act within the city, the police department
shall immediately notify the parent of such minor and advise the parent of such
arrest or detention, the reason therefor and his responsibility under this
section. A record of such notification shall be kept by the Des Plaines police
department. (Ord. M-66-93, 12-20-1993)
   F.   Penalty:
      1.   Any person who shall so absent himself from school attendance
without valid cause or parental permission as provided herein shall be guilty
of the offense of truancy and, upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine as
provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and each day that such person shall absent
himself from school attendance shall constitute a separate offense.
      2.   Any person found guilty of "parental neglect", as defined herein,
shall be subject to a fine as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code, or sentenced to a penal institution other than the
penitentiary or a term of not more than ninety (90) days. (Ord. M-66-93, 12-20-
1993; amd. 2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 750 ILCS 5/101 et seq.; 5/401 et seq.
6-3-4: CURFEW:
   A.   Age And Hour Restrictions: It is unlawful for a person less than
seventeen (17) years of age to be present at or upon any public assembly,
building, place, street or highway at the following times unless accompanied
and supervised by a parent, legal guardian or other responsible companion at
least eighteen (18) years of age approved by a parent or legal guardian, unless
attending or traveling to or from a religious, civic, educational or political
event or gathering, or unless engaged in a business or occupation which the
laws of this state authorize a person less than seventeen (17) years of age to
perform:
 
Saturday                      Between 12:01 A.M. and 6:00 A.M.
Sunday                        Between 12:01 A.M. and 6:00 A.M.
Sunday to Thursday, inclusive Between 11:00 P.M. and 6:00 A.M. on the following
                              day
A law enforcement officer may not detain a child or take a child into custody
based on a violation of this section unless the law enforcement officer, after
speaking with the child and considering the facts and surrounding
circumstances, reasonably believes that:
      1.   The child has violated this subsection; and
      2.   There is no legal defense to the violation. (Ord. M-15-04, 4-5-2004)
   B.   Parental Responsibility: It is unlawful for a parent, legal guardian or
other person to knowingly permit a person in his custody or control to violate
the provisions of this section. (Ord. M-21-98, 4-20-1998)
   C.   Penalty: Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be
fined as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code, except that neither a person who has been made a ward of
the court under the juvenile court act of 1987, nor that person's legal
guardian, shall be subject to any fine 1
. (Ord. M-21-98, 4-20-1998; amd. 2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.
6-3-5: DELINQUENCY, ENCOURAGING:
It shall be unlawful for any person, by any act or neglect, to encourage, aid
or cause a child to come within the purview of the juvenile authorities; and it
shall likewise be unlawful for any person, after notice that a driver's license
of any child has been suspended or revoked, to permit such child to operate a
motor vehicle during the period that such driver's license is suspended. (1963
Code)
6-3-6: SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATERIALS:
No person shall distribute or allow to be distributed, or place sexually
explicit materials for distribution under circumstances where minors may obtain
such materials. For the purpose of this section, a "minor" is defined as a
person under the age of eighteen (18).
   A.   Sexually Explicit Materials Defined:
      1.   "Sexually explicit materials" are defined as printed materials which
mention sexual gratification, the availability of sexual partners or provides
addresses or telephone numbers to contact to meet other persons to fulfill
sexual desires.
      2.   Sexually explicit materials may not be distributed under
circumstances, or on a premises where the distributor knows that minors are
allowed or may be present.
      3.   For distribution where a location is not restricted to adults only,
the distributor must request proof of age.
   B.   Exemptions:
      1.   No school employee, administrator, or teacher shall be liable for
distribution of sexually explicit materials which are part of a course on human
sexuality, biology, or sex education.
      2.   No person shall be liable for the distribution of sexually explicit
materials as part of an educational program to prevent pregnancy or the spread
of sexually transmitted diseases.
      3.   No librarian or library employee shall be liable for the
distribution of sexually explicit materials if such material is distributed as
a part of the circulation policies of a public library or library district.
      4.   No doctor, nurse, health practitioner, or other medical professional
shall be liable for distribution of sexually explicit materials as a part of
their practice, for sexual education, prevention of pregnancy, family planning
or prevention of sexually transmitted diseases.
      5.   It shall not be a violation of this section for newspapers of
general circulation to publish personal ads or notices directed to other
adults.
   C.   Penalties:
      1.   Materials in violation of this section are subject to immediate
seizure by the chief of police. The chief shall notify the publisher thereof on
the next business day that the sexually explicit materials are being held and
that they may be picked up by an authorized representative of the publisher who
shall be provided with a copy of this section.
      2.   Prior to the first court date for any citations issued by the police
department pursuant to this section, the publisher of said seized materials may
request a hearing in writing before the mayor. The hearing shall be scheduled
to take place within fourteen (14) days of the receipt of a written request,
and scheduled to take place at a time and place designated by the mayor. At the
hearing, the parties may present any facts and evidence relating to the action
taken by the police department. Based upon the record of said hearing, the
mayor shall make a finding and shall sustain, modify or rescind any action
taken by the police department. A written report of the hearing decision shall
be furnished by the mayor to the publishers to whose material was seized.
      3.   Any person found by a court to have violated any subsection of this
section shall be subject to a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00)
per violation. Each violation of this section shall constitute a separate
violation subject to enforcement and penalty as provided herein.
      4.   A subsequent finding by a court of a violation of the provisions of
this section shall subject the violator to the imposition of a fine not to
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). (Ord. M-63-99, 12-20-1999)
ARTICLE A. ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 1
SECTION:
6-3A-1: Definitions
6-3A-2: Consequences Of Facilitating Use Of Alcoholic Beverages
6-3A-3: False Identification
6-3A-4: Penalties
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  4-4-16 of this code.
6-3A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following terms, words and their
derivations shall have the following meanings:
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES OR LIQUOR:
   A.   Any spirits, wine, beer, ale or other liquid containing more than one-
half of one percent (0.5%) of alcohol by volume, which is fit for beverage
purposes.
   B.   Any beverage containing zero percent (0.0%) or more alcohol by volume
commonly known as "near beer", "nonalcoholic beer" or "nonalcoholic wine",
whose taste, color, odor and consistency are similar to the alcoholic beverages
known as beer and wine and, except for the reduced alcohol content, is marketed
as being similar to beer or wine.
CONTROL OF PREMISES: To be in control of a premises or to have a premises under
one's control shall mean a legal or beneficial ownership, rental, lease or
license. Control may also exist where none of the aforesaid legal relationships
apply, but where an adult is otherwise clearly in charge of and controlling a
particular premises.
DELIVERY OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: The sale, gift or exchange of an alcoholic liquor
from one person to another. Delivery is meant to include providing of any
alcoholic liquor or whatever kind or nature from one person to another.
FALSE IDENTIFICATION: Any document used for identification or proof of age that
has been altered or defaced or that contains false or misleading information or
that contains a name that is not the actual name of the person using it.
IMPAIRMENT: Any diminution or compromise of a person's physical, mental or
perceptual abilities due to the consumption of an alcoholic beverage.
Impairment does not require that the blood alcohol content be in excess of any
particular gram of alcohol to milliliters of blood or breath ratio.
KNOWINGLY: In a manner under circumstances indicating a general knowledge of,
or negligent or wilful disregard to, a fact. A presumption of knowledge exists
if a person is present within any motor vehicle, watercraft, room, dwelling,
shed, garage, yard or other area of which such person is the owner, lessee,
permittee, bailee, legal possessor or occupier at the time a violation of the
provisions of this article occurs therein.
OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLE: Includes physical control of the motor vehicle. It
shall mean the operation or control of a motor vehicle anywhere in the city,
whether on private or public property. To be in physical control, the person
need not be actually driving the motor vehicle and the vehicle need not be
running. If there is only one person inside of a motor vehicle that person
shall be presumed to be in physical control, regardless of the person's
location within the vehicle. If there is only one person in a front seat or
front passenger area of a motor vehicle, that person shall be presumed to be in
physical control regardless of the person's location in the front passenger
area. If there are persons in the vehicle, but not in the front passenger area,
the owner of the vehicle or the person to whom permission was given to operate
the vehicle, shall be presumed to be in physical control of the vehicle.
PARENT: A natural or adoptive parent or a court designated guardian.
UNDERAGE PERSON: Any person under twenty one (21) years of age.
VICARIOUS LIABILITY: The liability that is implied as a matter of law even
though the person may not have directly caused an injury to another person.
(Ord. M-51-93, 10-18-1993; amd. Ord. M-67-94, 10-17-1994)
6-3A-2: CONSEQUENCES OF FACILITATING USE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
   A.   Delivery Of Alcoholic Beverage To Underage Person: It shall be unlawful
to deliver any alcoholic beverage to any underage person. (Ord. M-51-93, 10-18-
1993)
   B.   Use Of Premises For Consumption Of Alcoholic Beverages:
      1.   Unlawful Assembly By Minors: It shall be unlawful for any person
under the age of twenty one (21) years to remain in any motor vehicle,
watercraft, room, dwelling, shed, garage, yard or other area when said person
knows or has reason to know, that one or more other persons under the age of
twenty one (21) years located in such motor vehicle, watercraft, room,
dwelling, shed, garage, yard or other area are in possession of any alcoholic
beverages. (Ord. M-67-94, 10-17-1994)
      2.   Responsibility Of Owner Or Occupant For Unlawful Assembly Of Minors:
It shall be unlawful for any person who has ownership or control of any motor
vehicle, watercraft, room, dwelling, shed, garage, yard or other area to
knowingly permit or allow one or more persons under the age of twenty one (21)
years to assemble or be assembled on such premises who are in possession of any
alcoholic beverages and/or controlled substances. It shall be unlawful for any
person who has ownership or control of any motor vehicle, watercraft, room,
dwelling, shed, garage, yard or other area to allow, by negligent failure to
maintain adequate supervision, one or more persons under the age of twenty one
(21) years to assemble or be assembled on such premises who are in possession
of any alcoholic beverages and/or controlled substances. (Ord. M-20-02, 4-1-
2002)
   C.   Exceptions: Subsections A and B of this section shall not apply in the
following circumstances:
      1.   The performance of a bona fide religious service;
      2.   The delivery of an alcoholic beverage to an underage person, by that
person's parent, within the home and under the direct supervision of the
parent. However, the following rules shall be applied to this subsection:
         a.   In any prosecution of an underage person for the commission of
any state or local offense, the prosecutor, upon reasonable grounds, may
request a ruling and the court shall rule as to whether the consumption of an
alcoholic beverage as permitted by the parent was a contributing factor in the
commission of the offense. If it is so determined in the affirmative, then the
penalty set forth in subsection D of this section shall apply.
         b.   The parent shall remain vicariously liable as set forth in
subsection E of this section. (Ord. M-51-93, 10-18-1993)
         c.   Persons under the age of seventeen (17) years must be accompanied
to court by a parent or legal guardian.
   D.   Penalty: Any person found guilty of violating subsection A or B of this
section, shall be fined in the mandatory amount of seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) and/or a period of community service. (Ord. M-20-02, 4-1-2002).
   E.   Vicarious Liability Of A Parent Or Other Person Facilitating The Use Or
Abuse Of Alcoholic Beverages: The following persons shall be liable to any
individual who has been injured by an alcohol impaired underage person when the
impairment is a contributing cause of the injury:
      1.   Any person who delivered to the underage person any alcoholic
beverage which contributed to the impairment. The person making the initial
delivery to an underage person remains liable to anyone injured by the same or
different underage person regardless of how many times the alcoholic beverage
changed hands.
      2.   Any person in control of a premises, who knowingly or negligently
fails to maintain supervision to such an extent that an alcoholic beverage is
consumed on the premises by an underage person.
      3.   Any person who knowingly or negligently permits the operation of a
motor vehicle under his control by an underage person, when the person knew or
in the exercise of ordinary judgment should have known that the underage person
was either impaired or had consumed any amount of alcohol within two (2) hours
prior to when the permission was granted.
The vicarious liability established by this section shall not be subject to the
limitations on damages as set forth in 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-21.
(Ord. M-51-93, 10-18-1993)
6-3A-3: FALSE IDENTIFICATION:
Any underage person found guilty of attempting to obtain delivery of an
alcoholic beverage by use of false proof of age shall be subject to a mandatory
fine of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and/or a period of community
service. If the false proof of age was an improperly used driver's license, a
report shall be filed with the Illinois secretary of state which will result in
a mandatory suspension of driving privileges. (Ord. M-20-02, 4-1-2002)
6-3A-4: PENALTIES:
Unless another penalty is set forth in this article, every person found guilty
of a violation of any of the provisions of this article shall be subject to a
fine as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense and a separate offense shall be deemed to
have been committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues. Any fines set forth in this article shall be assessed regardless of
whether the violator is convicted or placed on supervision by the court. If the
court is of the opinion that the ends of justice would be better served by
requiring community service of the violator or a combination of a fine and
community service, the fine may be mitigated at a rate of one hour of community
service for every ten dollars ($10.00) of the mandatory fine. (Ord. M-51-93,
10-18-1993; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GAMBLING
SECTION:
6-4-1: Gambling Prohibitions
6-4-2: Lotteries And Raffles
6-4-3: Bingo
6-4-4: Pull Tabs And Jar Games
6-4-5: Charitable Games
6-4-1: GAMBLING PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Gambling Houses: Except in a casino duly licensed by the Illinois
gaming board, no person shall set up, keep or maintain, or permit to be set up,
kept or maintained, in any house within the corporate limits, occupied or
controlled by him, any E.O., A.B.C., roley-poley, keno or faro table, faro
bank, roulette or other instrument, device or thing for the purpose of gaming,
or for which money or property or anything representing money or property or
anything of value shall in any manner be played.
   B.   Games Prohibited: Except in a casino duly licensed by the Illinois
gaming board, no person shall deal, play or engage in faro, roulette or any
other device or game of chance, hazard or address either as banker, dealer,
player or otherwise, nor shall he bet on any game others may be playing for the
purpose of gaming.
   C.   Minors Prohibited: No person under the age of twenty one (21) shall
enter the casino or engage in any gambling within the casino that operates
within the city of Des Plaines. This section shall not apply to any person who
is eighteen (18), nineteen (19), or twenty (20) years of age who is an employee
of the casino. No employee under the age of twenty one (21) shall perform any
function involved with gambling by the patrons. (Ord. M-32-11, 8-1-2011)
6-4-2: LOTTERIES AND RAFFLES 1
:
Lotteries and raffles may be conducted in the city upon complying with the
following regulations:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following definitions
apply:
   CHARITABLE: An organization or institution organized and operated to benefit
an indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to those eligible for
benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.
   EDUCATIONAL: An organization or institution organized and operated to
provide systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by methods common
to schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably in their scope
and intensity with the course of study presented in tax supported schools.
   FRATERNAL: An organization of persons having a common interest, the primary
interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and to provide
assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the burdens of
government by caring for those that otherwise would be cared for by the
government.
   LABOR: An organization composed of workers organized with the objective of
betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit and the
development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective occupations.
   LOTTERY/RAFFLE: Any scheme or procedure whereby one or more prizes are
distributed by chance among persons who have paid or promised consideration for
one or more chances to win such prizes whether such scheme or procedure is
called a lottery, raffle, gift, sale or some other name.
   NONPROFIT: An organization or institution organized and conducted on a not
for profit basis with no personal profit incurring to anyone as a result of the
operation.
   RELIGIOUS: Any church, congregation, society or organization founded for the
purpose of religious worship.
   VETERANS: An organization or association comprised of members of which
substantially all are individuals who are veterans or spouses, widows or
widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of
its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to
confer a public benefit.
   B.   Licenses Required: Lotteries shall be conducted only by organizations
licensed pursuant to this section. (Ord. M-2-82, 2-1-1982)
   C.   License Restrictions: Licenses are subject to the following
restrictions:
      1.   The license and application for license must specify the area or
areas within the city in which raffle chances will be sold or issued, the time
period during which raffle chances will be sold or issued, the time of
determination of winning chances and the locations at which winning chances
will be determined.
      2.   The license application must contain a sworn statement attesting to
the not for profit character of the prospective license organization, signed by
the presiding officer and the secretary of their organization.
      3.   Each license shall be valid for the calendar year in which said
license is issued. A new license must be obtained each calendar year. Each
lottery/raffle shall be scheduled and held on only one day or date. A single
license may be issued to a parent organization for the benefit of its
affiliated organizations. Each affiliated organization shall comply with all
provisions of this section. The parent organization shall be responsible for
the affiliate's compliance with the provisions of this section, and shall list
each organization authorized to conduct lotteries and raffles under its license
on the application.
      4.   Licenses shall be issued only to bona fide religious, charitable,
labor, fraternal, educational or veterans' organizations that operate without
profit to their members and which have been in existence continuously for a
period of five (5) years immediately before making application for a license
and which have had during that entire five (5) year period a bona fide
membership engaged in carrying out their objectives, or which has been in
business less than five (5) years and has submitted proof satisfactory to the
city that the organization is a bona fide organization operating without
profit. (Ord. M-67-05, 10-17-2005)
   D.   Prohibited Licensees: No such license shall be issued to:
      1.   Any person who has been convicted of a felony.
      2.   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter.
      3.   Any person who is not of good moral character.
      4.   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in subsection D1,
D2 or D3 of this section who has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest,
or in which such a person is active or employed.
      5.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection D1, D2 or
D3 of this section is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated or
not.
      6.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection D1, D2 or
D3 of this section is to participate in the management or operation of a raffle
as defined in this section.
   E.   Restrictions: The conducting of raffles is subject to the following
restrictions:
      1.   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct that game.
      2.   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization
may participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
      3.   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating
in the management operation of the raffle.
      4.   A licensee may rent premises on which to determine the winning
chance or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed
under this section.
      5.   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area specified
on the license and winning chances may be determined only at those locations
specified on the licenses. (Ord. M-2-82, 2-1-1982)
      6.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years may participate in
the conducting of raffles or chances. A person under the age of twenty one (21)
years may be within the area where winning chances are being determined only
when accompanied by his parent or guardian. (Ord. M-2-82, 2-1-1982; amd. 2002
Code)
   F.   Raffles Manager, Bond Required: All operation of and the conduct of
raffles shall be under the supervision of a single raffles manager designated
by the organization. The manager shall give a fidelity bond in the sum of an
amount determined by the city in favor of the organization conditioned upon his
honesty in the performance of his duties. Terms of the bond shall provide that
notice shall be given in writing to the licensing authority not less than
thirty (30) days prior to its cancellation. The governing body of a local unit
of government may waive this bond requirement by including a waiver provision
in the license issued to an organization under this section; provided, that a
license containing such waiver provision shall be granted only by unanimous
vote of the members of the licensed organization.
   G.   Records:
      1.   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles and chances shall keep
the records of its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each single
gathering or occasion at which winning chances are determined. All deductions
from gross receipts for each single gathering or occasion shall be documented
with receipts or other records indicating the amount, a description of the
purchased item or service or other reason for the deductions, and the
recipient. The distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee,
purpose, amount and date of payment.
      2.   Gross receipts from the operation of raffles programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts, if bingo games are also conducted by the same nonprofit organization
pursuant to license therefor issued by the department of revenue of the state
of Illinois, and placed in a separate account. Each organization shall have
separate records of its raffles. The person who accounts for gross receipts,
expenses and net proceeds from the operation of raffles shall not be the same
person who accounts for other revenues of the organization.
      3.   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall report monthly
to its membership, and to the licensing local unit of government, its gross
receipts, expenses and net proceeds from raffles, and the distribution of net
proceeds itemized as required in this section.
      4.   Records required by this section shall be preserved for three (3)
years, and organization shall make available their records relating to
operation of raffles for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
   H.   Additional Restrictions:
      1.   The aggregate retail value of all prizes and merchandise awarded by
a licensee in a single raffle should not exceed two hundred thousand dollars
($200,000.00).
      2.   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded in a single raffle
should not exceed two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00).
      3.   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued
or sold shall not exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00).
      4.   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or
sold shall not exceed one hundred eighty (180) days. (Ord. M-2-82, 2-1-1982)
   I.   License Fee: License fee for each raffle conducted under the terms of
this section shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. M-67-05, 10-17-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. 20 ILCS 1605/1 et seq.; 230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.
6-4-3: BINGO:
   A.   Definitions:
   BINGO: A game in which prizes are awarded on the basis of designated numbers
or symbols on a card conforming to numbers or symbols selected at random.
   B.   Exception To Gambling: None of the sections of this chapter dealing
with gambling shall apply to participation in the game of "bingo" as defined in
this section, when said game is conducted by certain nonprofit organizations
possessing the required state license and meeting the state requirements and
regulations concerning the same. (Ord. M-22-72, 5-1-1972)
6-4-4: PULL-TABS AND JAR GAMES:
   A.   Definitions:
   PULL-TABS AND JAR GAMES: Any game using single folded or banded tickets or a
card, the face of which is initially covered or otherwise hidden from view in
order to conceal a number, symbol or set of symbols, some of which are winners.
"Pull-tab games" are also defined as a game whereby tabs are pulled from a
board, thereby revealing a number that corresponds to a number given a specific
prize.
   B.   Exception To Gambling: None of the sections of this chapter dealing
with gambling shall apply to participation in "pull-tabs" or "jar games" as
defined in this section, when said game is conducted by nonprofit organizations
possessing the required state license and meeting the state requirements and
regulations concerning the same 1
. (Ord. M-37-95, 7-17-1995)
   C.   Minors:
      1.   No person under twenty one (21) years of age shall make a wager on
any device described in subsection A of this section. No person, nonprofit
organization or premises owner, where such games are held, shall permit a
person under twenty one (21) years of age to make a wager on any device
described in subsection A of this section. Any person, nonprofit organization,
or premises owner which violates this subsection shall be subject to a fine as
provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. M-37-95, 7-17-1995; amd. 2002 Code)
      2.   Each nonprofit organization or premises owner, where such games are
conducted, shall prominently display or cause to be displayed a sign indicating
the prohibition contained in subsection C1 of this section. Each nonprofit
organization or premises owner, where such games are conducted, shall provide
or cause to be provided proper supervision and security to ensure that the
prohibition contained in subsection C1 of this section is followed. Further,
each premises owner shall affirmatively advise each nonprofit organization
using its premises of said provision.
   D.   Conduct Of Games:
      1.   Within fourteen (14) days of receiving the necessary license or
permit from the Illinois department of revenue, but in no event less than two
(2) days before the commencement of the sale of any pull-tabs or jar games, the
licensee or permittee shall furnish to the chief of police a copy of said
license or permit, the specific dates and location of the sale of pull-tabs and
jar games, and the name, address and the date of birth of the person in charge
of the sales, and each and every member of the organization engaged in the
sales.
      2.   The license or permit, the documentation for the license or the
permit and the premises where the pull-tab or jar games are sold shall be
subject to inspection by the police department at any time pull-tabs and jar
games are sold.
      3.   For each license or permit held, the licensee or permittee shall pay
a one time inspection fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00). Such fee shall be
paid at the department of finance and administrative services.
      4.   Forms necessary to provide the chief of police with the information
required by this section shall be kept and distributed by the department of
finance and administrative services. (Ord. M-37-95, 7-17-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.
6-4-5: CHARITABLE GAMES:
   A.   Definitions:
   CHARITABLE GAMES: Roulette, blackjack, poker, pull- tabs, craps, bang, beat
the dealer, big six, gin rummy, five card stud poker, chuck-a-luck, keno, hold-
em poker and merchandise wheel.
   B.   Exceptions To Gambling: None of the sections of this chapter dealing
with gambling shall apply to participation in "charitable games", as defined in
this section when said game is conducted by nonprofit organizations possessing
the required state license and meeting the state requirements and regulations
concerning the same 1
. (Ord. M-37-95, 7-17-1995)
   C.   Minors:
      1.   No person under twenty one (21) years of age shall make a wager on
any device described in subsection A of this section. No person, nonprofit
organization or premises owner, where such games are held, shall permit a
person under twenty one (21) years of age to make a wager on any device
described in subsection A of this section. Any person, nonprofit organization,
or premises owner who violates this section shall be subject to a fine as
provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. M-37-95, 7-17-1995; amd. 2002 Code)
      2.   Each nonprofit organization or premises owner, where such games
shall be conducted, shall prominently display or cause to be displayed a sign
indicating the prohibition contained in subsection C1 of this section. Each
nonprofit organization, supplier of devices and/or premises owner, where such
games will be conducted, shall provide or cause to be provided proper
supervision and security to ensure that the prohibition contained in subsection
C1 of this section is followed. Further, each premises owner shall
affirmatively advise each nonprofit organization using its premises of said
provision.
   D.   Conduct Of Games:
      1.   Within fourteen (14) days of receiving the necessary license or
permit from the Illinois department of revenue, but in no event less than two
(2) days before the commencement of any charitable games event, the licensee or
permittee shall furnish to the chief of police a copy of said license or
permit, the specific dates and location of the charitable games event, and the
name, address and the date of birth of the person in charge of the event, and
each and every member of the organization engaged in the event.
      2.   The license or permit, the documentation for the license or the
permit and the premises where the charitable games event is held shall be
subject to inspection by the police department at any time during the event.
      3.   For each license or permit held, the licensee or permittee shall pay
a one time inspection fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00). Such fee shall be
paid at the department of finance and administrative services.
      4.   Forms necessary to provide the chief of police with the information
required by this section shall be kept and distributed by the department of
finance and administrative services. (Ord. M-37-95, 7-17-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 30/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 5
CIVIL EMERGENCIES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Definitions
6-5-2: Declaration Of Emergency
6-5-3: Orders By The Mayor
6-5-4: Notice
6-5-5: Term; Extension; Termination
6-5-6 Violations; Penalty
6-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
Wherever the following words or phrases are used, they shall, for purposes of
this Chapter 5, have the meanings ascribed to them in this Section
6-5-1  except when the context otherwise indicates. All words or phrases not
defined in this Section
6-5-1  shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Illinois Emergency
Management Agency Act, as amended [20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.].
CIVIL EMERGENCY: A “Disaster” as defined in the Illinois Emergency Management
Agency Act, as amended. Specifically, and without limitation of the foregoing,
a “civil emergency” includes the appearance of a novel or previously controlled
or eradicated infectious agent or biological toxin. (Ord. M-6-20, 3-16-2020)
6-5-2: DECLARATION OF CIVIL EMERGENCY:
Pursuant to the authority granted by State law, including, without limitation,
Section 11-1-6 of the Illinois Municipal Code, and the city’s home rule
authority, whenever the mayor determines that a civil emergency exists in the
city, the mayor shall have the extraordinary power and authority to exercise by
executive order all such powers of the corporate authorities and other officers
of the city as may be reasonably necessary or appropriate to eliminate or
minimize the dangers arising from such civil emergency and for the protection
of the health, safety and general welfare of the public; provided, however,
that prior to exercising any such extraordinary power and authority, the mayor
shall have executed under oath a written declaration of civil emergency
containing the following:
   A.   An express declaration that a civil emergency exists; and
   B.   A statement of facts known to the mayor, either directly or upon
information and belief, which describes the nature of the civil emergency and
substantiates the finding that a civil emergency exists.
Unless expressly stated otherwise, a declaration issued pursuant to this
Section
6-5-2  shall be considered a local disaster declaration made pursuant to
Section 11 of the Emergency Management Agency Act. (Ord. M-6-20, 3-16-2020)
6-5-3: ORDERS BY THE MAYOR:
The Mayor may, upon the issuance of a declaration of civil emergency in
accordance with Section
6-5-3  of this Code, issue orders to implement any or all of the following:
   A.   The imposition of a curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the
City or to the City as whole, as deemed advisable by the Mayor, and applicable
during such hours of the day or night as deemed necessary by the Mayor in the
interest of the public safety and welfare;
   B.   The discontinuance of selling, distributing, or giving away of gasoline
or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container other than a
gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
   C.   The closure of any business establishment anywhere within the City for
the period of civil emergency, including, without limitation, businesses
selling intoxicating liquors, gasoline, or firearms;
   D.   The closure of any public street, thoroughfare or vehicle parking areas
to vehicular and/or pedestrian traffic;
   E.   The calling upon regular and auxiliary law enforcement agencies and
organizations without or within the City to assist in preserving and keeping
the peace within the City;
   F.   The authorization of the Mayor, the City Manager, or the Des Plaines
homeland security and emergency management agency (HSEMA), to enter into
contracts for the procurement of supplies and services necessary to address the
civil emergency that would normally require the approval of the full City
Council;
   G.   The incurrence of obligations, the appropriation of funds, and the
provision of emergency assistance reasonably necessary to respond to or
mitigate the civil emergency;
   H.   The prohibition of increases in the prices of goods and services sold
within the City; and
   I.   Any other actions reasonably necessary to address the civil emergency
and protect life and    property. (Ord. M-6-20, 3-16-2020)
6-5-4: NOTICE:
A declaration of civil emergency shall be: (i) filed with the City Clerk as
soon as practicable; (ii) promptly disseminated to the news media; and (iii)
promptly posted at the City Hall, the post office, and on the City’s social
media pages and website. (Ord. M-6-20, 3-16-2020)
6-5-5: TERM; EXTENSION; TERMINATION:
   A.   Term. A declaration of civil emergency shall expire and automatically
terminate, if not extended pursuant to Section 6-5-5(B) of this Code, not later
than: (i) the adjournment of the first regular or special meeting of the city
council; or (ii) seven days after the declaration is issued, whichever occurs
first.
   B.   Extension. The City Council may by motion extend the initial duration
of a declaration of civil emergency and any orders issued by the mayor in
connection therewith. The extension shall be for the duration necessary and in
the best interest of the city and the public to address the continuing civil
emergency as determined by the city council.
   C.   Termination by the Mayor. A declaration of civil emergency may be
otherwise terminated at any time in writing and executed by the mayor. (Ord. M-
6-20, 3-16-2020)
6-5-6: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   Any person who violates the provisions of this Chapter 5 or of any
order issued pursuant to this Chapter 5 shall be subject to penalties as
provided pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   B.   Any business or property that is operated in violation of any order
issued pursuant to this Chapter 5 shall constitute a nuisance in fact for the
purposes of this Code.
   C.   Any business or property owner that knowingly permits a violation of an
order issued pursuant to this Chapter 5 on their property or premises to
continue shall be jointly and severally liable for such violation with any
persons violating the order. (Ord. M-6-20, 3-16-2020; amd. Ord. M-10-20, 8-3-
2020)
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
VEHICLE LICENSES
(Rep. by Ord. M-46-19, 12-2-2019)
CHAPTER 2
TRAFFIC CODE
SECTION:
7-2-1: Adoption Of Illinois Vehicle Code; Violations
7-2-2: Official Traffic Control Devices
7-2-3: School Crossing Guards
7-2-1: ADOPTION OF ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE; VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Provisions Adopted: There are hereby adopted by reference to this code,
the following provisions of the Illinois Compiled Statutes:
 
20 ILCS 4005/1 through 4005/8  Motor vehicle theft prevention act
30 ILCS 180/0.01 through 180/1 Vehicle recycling fund transfer act
430 ILCS 30/1 through 30/16    Illinois hazardous materials transportation act
625 ILCS, in its entirety      Illinois motor vehicle code
 
   B.   Code Sections Subject To Procedures: Only the following violations of
the Illinois vehicle code are subject to the procedures in this section:
5/3-112      Failure to transfer title
5/3-401      No valid registration (nonregistered vehicle)
5/3-413(a)   Display of registration plates
5/3-413(b)   Improper display of registration plates
5/3-413(f)   Operation of vehicle with expired registration plate or sticker
5/3-416      Failure to notify secretary of state of change of address/name
             (for registration of vehicle)
5/3-701      No valid registration (attached and displayed properly)
5/6-116      Failure to notify secretary of state of change of address/name
             (for driver's license)
5/11-1011    Bridge and railroad signals
5/11-1205    Emerging from alley, building, private road or driveway
5/11-1401    Unattended motor vehicle
5/11-1403(c) Illegal handlebars on a motorcycle
5/11-1404    Riding a motorcycle without special equipment
5/11-1405    No passenger footrests on a motorcycle
5/11-1406    Obstruction of driver's view or driving mechanism obstructed
5/11-1412    Crossing fire hose
5/11-1412.1  Driving upon a sidewalk
5/11-1413    Depositing injurious material on highway
5/12-101     Unsafe equipment (motor vehicle)
5/12-201     When lighted lamps are required
5/12-202     Insufficient clearance, identification or side marker lights
5/12-204     Improper lamp or flag on projected load
5/12-210     Failure to dim headlights
5/12-211     Improper lighting - only 1 headlamp
5/12-301     Defective or no brakes
5/12-401     Use of illegal tires (studs)
5/12-405(c)  Use of unsafe tire (bald)
5/12-502     Mirrors
5/12-503(a)  Obstructed windshield or front side windows
5/12-503(c)  Obstructed driver's view
             Operating vehicle without windshield cleaning device; operation of
5/12-503(d)  vehicle with view obstructed by snow, ice, moisture or other
             material
5/12-503(e)  Operation of vehicle with defective condition or repair of any
             window
5/12-601     Horn and warning devices
5/12-602     Muffler-loud, excessive noise, no muffler
5/12-603     No seat belts
             Failure to wear properly adjusted and fastened seat/safety belt
5/12-603.1   (driver and front seat passenger) specifically excludes violations
             of the child restraint act
5/12-604     Television receivers
5/12-606(a)  No sign or name attached to each side of a tow truck
5/12-606(b)  Required equipment broom, shovel, trash can, fire extinguisher
5/12-606(c)  Failure to remove debris or spread oil absorbing material on the
             roadway
5/12-607     Suspension system
5/12-607.1   Frame and floor height
5/12-608     Bumpers
5/12-610     Headset receivers
5/12-611     Sound amplification systems
5/12-702     Certain vehicles to carry flares or warning devices
5/12-703     Road oil vehicles - dripping on certain highways forbidden
5/13-111     No valid safety test
5/15-105     Projecting load on passenger vehicles
5/15-106     Protruding members of vehicles
5/15-108     Planking edge of the pavement
5/15-109     Spilling loads on highways prohibited
5/15-109.1   Covers or tarpaulins required for certain loads
5/15-110     Towed vehicles
5/15-114     Unlawful pushing of disabled vehicle
5/15-316     Local authority may restrict use of road
 
(Ord. M-34-94, 3-21-1994; amd. Ord. T-6-07, 9-4-2007; Ord. M-4-09, 2-2-2009)
   C.   Specific Illinois Code Violations: Any person violating or failing to
comply with any provision of the Illinois vehicle code adopted by reference in
this subsection, shall be fined twenty five dollars ($25.00) per offense. A
late fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) shall be assessed for any fine not paid
within twenty one (21) days of the citation date:
 
5/3-112    Failure to transfer title
5/3-401    No valid registration (nonregistered vehicle)
5/3-413(a) Display of registration plates
5/3-413(b) Improper display of registration plates
5/3-416    Failure to notify secretary of state of change of address/name (for
           registration of vehicle)
5/3-701    No valid registration (attached and displayed properly)
 
(Ord. T-5-03, 4-21-2003)
7-2-2: OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Conform To Manual: All traffic control devices installed and maintained
on the streets and boulevards of this city shall be subject to the provisions
of the "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices For Streets And
Highways".
   B.   Maintenance Of Official Traffic Control Devices: The director of public
works shall place and maintain traffic control devices as directed by the city
council and as required by this title to make effective the provisions of this
title, and may place and maintain such additional traffic control devices to
regulate, guide or warn traffic as directed by the city council.
   C.   Emergency And Experimental Regulations: The police chief is hereby
authorized to make and enforce temporary regulations to cover emergencies or
special conditions. Such temporary regulations shall remain in effect only
during the period of emergency or special condition.
The police chief is hereby authorized to make temporary rules as directed by
the city council to regulate traffic or test traffic control devices under
actual conditions of traffic. No such experimental regulation of traffic shall
remain in effect for more than ninety (90) days. (Ord. T-10-92, 7-6-1992)
7-2-3: SCHOOL CROSSING GUARDS:
A school crossing guard is authorized to supervise the safe crossing of
schoolchildren at crossing points which have been established by law or
regulation by informing drivers of motor vehicles through appropriate signals
that schoolchildren are using or about to use the crossing and have the right
of way.
It shall be unlawful for any driver to fail to come to a complete stop or yield
right of way when signaled by the school crossing guard. (Ord. M-61-81, 9-8-
1981)
CHAPTER 3
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
SECTION:
7-3-1: No Parking Signs
7-3-2: Parking Prohibited In Certain Places
7-3-3: Parking Prohibited In Designated Places
7-3-4: Parking Limited In Designated Places
7-3-5: Standing Restrictions
7-3-6: Bus And Taxicab Stands
7-3-7: Pedestrian Standing On Sidewalk
7-3-8: Parking During Snow Removal Operations
7-3-9: Residential Parking Only
7-3-10: Restricted Resident Parking District
7-3-11: Parking Near Fire Stations, Apparatus Or Lanes
7-3-12: Parking During Street Maintenance Activities
7-3-13: Bookmobile Reserved Parking
7-3-14: Handicapped And Disabled Restricted Parking
7-3-15: Restricted Resident Parking District; Maine West High School Area
7-3-1: NO PARKING SIGNS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle in any place where
official signs prohibit parking. (Ord. 6-20-60)
7-3-2: PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES:
   A.   Loading And Unloading: No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle
upon a street, other than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions
as to leave available less than eighteen feet (18') of the width of a roadway
for free movement of vehicular traffic except that a driver may stop
temporarily during the actual loading or unloading of passengers, merchandise
or materials or when necessary in obedience to traffic regulations or traffic
signs or signals or a police officer; provided, however, that intercity buses
may not stop, stand, or park at any location in the City except as permitted by
Section
7-3-5 .D.
   B.   Alleys:
      1.   Free Movement: No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in
such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet
(10') of the width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic.
      2.   Loading Or Unloading: It shall be unlawful for any person to park
any vehicle of any kind or character in and upon any public alley within the
city, except for the purposes of loading and unloading.
   C.   Crosswalks: It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle of
any kind or character, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic
control device, within twenty five feet (25') of a crosswalk at an intersection
within the city, unless the vehicle is parked in a metered parking space.
   D.   Trailers And Semitrailers:
      1.   No person shall park a semitrailer truck or tractor on either public
or private property in a residential zone except when said truck or tractor is
actually delivering, unloading or loading personal property to and from
premises in such zone, and except any such truck or tractor which is restricted
wholly to the interior confines of a private garage.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any trailer or
semitrailer detached from a vehicle on any public street within the city except
for emergency purposes or as set forth in subsection D4 of this section.
Whenever trailers or semitrailers are parked in emergency situations, all
requirements regarding flares or other warning devices shall be complied with.
In addition, the police department shall be notified as soon as possible of the
emergency situation.
      3.   It shall be unlawful to park a semitrailer truck cab, with or
without an attached trailer, overnight on any public right of way, street,
parkway or sidewalk within the city, except as set forth in subsection D4 of
this section.
      4.   a.   Residents may park a travel trailer, camper, recreational
vehicle, boat, or moving trailer on a public street directly in front of the
dwelling, or public parkway for purposes of loading or unloading for a period
no longer than twenty four (24) hours, unless said parking will cause a danger
to public safety. Notification must be given to the Des Plaines police
department prior to parking the travel trailer, camper, recreational vehicle,
boat, or moving trailer on a public street or parkway.
         b.   Trailers may be stored or parked on private property in
accordance with the provisions of amended section 302.8.1 in section
10-9-2 of this code.
   E.   Commercial Vehicles:
      1.   For the purposes of this section, “commercial vehicle” shall mean
any vehicle licensed and classified by the state in excess of a B plate or
weighing in excess of eight thousand pounds (8,000) gross weight (including
vehicle and maximum load) and:
         a.   Is operated for the transportation of property in the furtherance
of any commercial or industrial enterprise, for hire or not for hire, or a
recreational vehicle being used commercially, including, without limitation;
         b.   Has lettered signage posted designating a commercial business;
         c.   Is designed for pulling or carrying freight or cargo, or is a
motor vehicle of the first division remodeled for use and used as motor
vehicles of the second division; or
         d.   Is a “road tractor” as defined in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/1-178, farm tractor, or earthmoving equipment.
      2.   Commercial Truck Parking in Residential Areas: It shall be unlawful
to park a commercial vehicle on any private or public property in any
residential district of the city, except as set forth in subsection E4 of this
Section or when the commercial vehicle is parked within a fully enclosed
private garage.
      3.   Overnight Commercial Truck Parking: It shall be unlawful to park a
commercial vehicle overnight on any public right of way, street, parkway or
sidewalk within the city, except as set forth in subsection E4 of this section.
      4.   The requirements of this subsection E shall not apply to commercial
vehicles that are parked within the city limits for the purpose of delivering
or collecting persons, materials or merchandise and/or performing some service
to the residents on whose property or adjacent to whose property the vehicle is
being parked.
   F.   Antique Vehicles:
      1.   For the purposes of this section, "antique vehicle" means an antique
vehicle or expanded-use antique vehicle as each is defined by the Illinois
Vehicle Code, 675 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
      2.   Overnight Antique Vehicle Parking: It is unlawful to park an antique
vehicle overnight on any public right of way, street, parkway or sidewalk
within the city.
   G.   Commercial School Buses:
      1.   Parking On Residential Streets: It shall be unlawful for any
operator or owner of any commercial school bus, licensed and classified as such
by the state under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-182, to park such vehicle
upon any residential street in the city except for the purposes of loading and
unloading school bus passengers.
      2.   Algonquin Road: It shall be unlawful for any person to park any
vehicle of any kind, other than a commercial school bus licensed and classified
as such by the state, under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-182 (1992), in
the zone posted "Buses Only" on the south side of Algonquin Road, between the
administration center entrance and the east end addition to Algonquin Junior
High School, during normal school hours (7:30 A.M. to 3:30 P.M.).
Notwithstanding the foregoing, student pick up and drop off shall be permitted
on the south side of Algonquin Road, from Fifth Avenue to said "Buses Only"
zone, and such area shall be posted "Student Pick Up And Drop Off".
      3.   Eighth Avenue: It shall be unlawful for any person to park any
vehicle of any kind, other than a commercial school bus licensed and classified
as such by the state, under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-182 (1992), in
the zone posted "School Bus Zone" along the east side of Eighth Avenue, in
front of Chippewa Junior High School, on school days only, during the hours of
seven thirty o'clock (7:30) A.M. to eight thirty o'clock (8:30) A.M., and two
thirty o'clock (2:30) P.M. to three thirty o'clock (3:30) P.M.
   H.   Other Restricted Areas:
      1.   Yellow Curbs: Parking shall be prohibited on any street or portion
thereof, in the city where the adjacent curb or gutter is painted yellow, or
where the street pavement itself is marked in yellow.
      2.   On Parkways: No person shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle at any
time on any parkway.
      3.   Parking In Front Of Public Buildings: When official signs are
erected or placed giving notice thereof, no person shall stand or park any
vehicle longer than necessary to load or unload passengers within a space
designated by official signs along the adjacent curb immediately in front of
the entrance to any public building, hospital, hotel, theater or church.
      4.   Parking Prohibited Under Viaducts: No person shall stand or park any
vehicle longer than necessary to load or unload passengers under any viaduct or
on the approaches thereto.
      5.   Blocking Driveways Or Garages: No person shall stand or park any
vehicle in such a manner as to block ingress or egress from any public or
private driveway or garage. (Ord. 2-20-39; amd. Ord. 6-20-60; Ord. T-10-84, 4-
2-1984; Ord. T-10-85, 7-15-1985; Ord. T-2-86, 1-20-1986;Ord. T-16-89, 12-4-
1989; Ord. T-1-94, 1-17-1994; Ord. M-23-95, 4-17-1995; Ord. M-26-06, 9-5-2006;
Ord. M-1-22, 1-3-2022; Ord. M-1-23, 2-6-2023; Ord. M-13-23, 7-17-2023; Ord. M-
2- 24, 1-16-2024)
7-3-3: PARKING PROHIBITED IN DESIGNATED PLACES:
On those streets or portions thereof, listed in the following schedule I, where
signs are erected giving notice thereof, there shall be no parking, stopping,
or standing permitted at any time:
   SCHEDULE I
Street Location Side
Street              Location                                      Side
Acres Lane          Dempster Street south 240 feet                Both
Alfini Drive        Entire street                                 West
Alger Street        Mannheim Road to Orchard Place                North
Alger Street        Mannheim Road to Orchard Place                South
Algonquin Road      Des Plaines Avenue to Joseph Schwab Road      North
Algonquin Road      Illinois Route 83 east 300 feet               North
Algonquin Road      Illinois Route 83 east 300 feet               South
Algonquin Road      Joseph Schwab Road to Lee/Mannheim Road       North
Algonquin Road      Joseph Schwab Road to Soo Line tracks         South
Algonquin Road      Third Avenue to Wisconsin Central Railroad    North
                    tracks
                    200 feet west of the centerline of Lee/
Algonquin Road      Mannheim Road to Wisconsin Central Railroad   South
                    tracks
Algonquin Road      Wolf Road east 300 feet                       North
Algonquin Road      Wolf Road east 300 feet                       South
Algonquin Road      Wolf Road west 300 feet                       North
Algonquin Road      Wolf Road west 300 feet                       South
Alles Street        Harding Avenue to Willow Avenue               East
Alles Street        Perry Street to Brown Street                  East
Arlington Avenue    Laurel Avenue to Webford Avenue               East
Armstrong Road      Entire street                                 Both
Ash Street          Fargo Avenue to Howard Avenue                 West
Ash Street          Highland Drive to Fargo Avenue                West
Ashland Avenue      Center Street to Des Plaines River Road       South
Ashland Avenue      Center Street to Lee Street                   North
Ashland Avenue      Lee Street to 200 feet east                   South
Ashland Avenue      30 feet between signs in front of 1454        North
                    Ashland Avenue
Ashland Avenue      30 feet between signs in front of 1636        North
                    Ashland Avenue
Ballard Road        Between Lyman Avenue and Potter Road          South
Beau Court          Beau Drive to cul-de-sac                      North
Beau Drive          Debra Drive to Golf Road                      East
Beau Drive          Florian Drive to 25 feet north of Elmdale     West
                    Condominiums southern driveway
Beau Drive          Millers Road to Kathleen Drive                East
Bellaire Avenue     University Avenue to north property line of   East
                    345 Bellaire
Bellaire Avenue     University Avenue to north property line of   West
                    345 Bellaire
Bennett Place       River Road to Locust Street                   South
Birch Street        Riverview Avenue to Everett Avenue            West
Birch Street        Touhy Avenue to 350 feet north                West
Birchwood Avenue    Cedar Street east to and including the cul-   Both
                    de-sac
Birchwood Avenue    Frontage Road to Maple Street                 South
Bittersweet Court   Oakton Street to Mannheim Road                East
Bittersweet Court   Oakton Street to Mannheim Road                West
Bradrock Road       Mount Prospect Road to Winthrop Drive         North
Brentwood Drive     North edge of Dulles Road to 60 feet north    East
Briar Court         Ash Street to Bittersweet Court               North
Brown Street        Alles Street to Lee Street, except for 100    South
                    feet in front of 485 Brown
Brown Street        Alles Street to 25 feet east of Oak Street    North
Brown Street        Lee Street to alley located 125 feet west of  North
                    Lee Street
Busse Highway       Dempster Street to east city limits           North
Busse Highway       Joseph Schwab Road east 600 feet              South
Cambridge Road      Drake Street to Harvard Street                West
Campbell Avenue     Des Plaines Avenue to Soo Line tracks         South
Carol Lane          Entire street                                 North
Cedar Street        Jarvis Avenue to Fargo Avenue                 East
Cedar Street        Jarvis Avenue to Fargo Avenue                 West
Cedar Street        Touhy Avenue to 100 feet north of commercial  West
                    property
Cedar Street        Touhy Avenue to Welwyn Avenue                 East
Cedar Street        Welwyn Avenue to Howard Avenue                West
Center Street       Ashland Avenue to Thacker Street              East
Center Street       Ellinwood south to alley                      East
Center Street       Ellinwood south to alley                      West
Center Street       100 feet north of Ashland Avenue to Oakton    West
                    Street
                    Thacker/Dempster Street to a point 120 feet
Center Street       south of the south line of Thacker/Dempster   East
                    Street
Center Street       Thacker Street to 100 feet south of Thacker   West
                    Street
Center Street       Thacker Street to Prairie Avenue              West
Center Street       25 feet between signs in front of 825 Center  East
                    Street
Central Avenue      Greco Avenue to Curtis Street                 South
Central Road        Rand Road to East River Road                  North
Central Road        Rand Road to East River Road                  South
Chase Avenue        Des Plaines Avenue to Scott Street            North
Chestnut Street     Fargo Avenue south to dead end                East
Chestnut Street     Howard Avenue to Prospect Avenue              East
Chestnut Street     Howard to north property line of Apache park  West
Chestnut Street     North line of Apache park to Fargo Avenue     West
Church Street       Good Avenue to Potter Road                    South
Cindy Lane          Lincoln Avenue to Forest Avenue               East
Clearwater Drive    Cul-de-sac to 100 feet north of cul-de-sac    West
Clearwater Drive    Howard Avenue to dead end                     East
Cora Street         Forest Avenue to Oakton Street                East
Cora Street         Oakton Street to 75 feet south                East
Cora Street         Oakton Street to 75 feet south                West
Cora Street         Thacker Street to Forest Avenue               West
Cornell Avenue      Drake Lane to Harvard Street                  East
Crabtree Lane       Busse Highway north 150 feet                  East
Craig Drive         For a distance of 125 feet from Scott Street  Both
Crestwood Drive     Entire length of street                       Odd
                                                                  number
Cumberland Parkway  Warrington Road to Golf Road                  West
Curtis Street       Central Avenue to Pratt Avenue                West
Curtis Street       From north entrance of trailer park to 20     East
                    feet north of said entrance
Curtis Street       From south entrance of trailer park to south  East
                    end of Curtis Street
Curtis Street       Nimitz Drive south to cul-de-sac              West
Curtis Street       Nimitz Drive to Pratt Avenue                  East
Curtis Street       135 feet south of Nimitz Drive to south end   West
                    of street
Dale Street         Touhy Avenue to Estes Avenue                  East
Dale Street         Touhy Avenue to Estes Avenue                  West
Danbury Lane        Dover Drive north 70 feet                     East
Danbury Lane        Dover Drive to Lancaster Lane                 West
Dara James          Kathleen Drive to Millers Road                East
Davis Court         Warrington Road to Cumberland Parkway         South
Deane Street        Algonquin Road to Van Buren Avenue            West
Debra Drive         Marshall Drive to Lillian Lane                South
Dempster Street     Illinois Route 83 east 300 feet               North
Dempster Street     Illinois Route 83 east 300 feet               South
Dempster Street     West of Elmhurst Road                         South
Dennis Place        Entire street                                 North
Devon Avenue        River Road to Interstate 294 overpass         North
Dover Drive         Marshall Drive to Mount Prospect Road         North
Dover Drive         Mount Prospect Road west 200 feet             South
Dover Lane          Entire street (where posted)                  Both
Drake Street        Eighth Avenue to Cambridge Road               South
Dulles Road         Beau Drive to Elmhurst Road                   North
Earl Avenue         Forest Avenue to Algonquin Road               West
Eighth Avenue       Princeton Street to 300 feet south of         Both
                    Princeton Street
Eighth Avenue       Princeton Street to 20 feet north of          West
                    Princeton
Eisenhower Court    50 feet north of intersection of Eisenhower   Both
                    Court and Laura Lane
Elizabeth Lane      Joyce Drive to Janice Drive                   North
Ellinwood Street    Lee Street to Pearson Street                  North
Ellinwood Street    Lee Street to Pearson Street                  South
Elmhurst Road       Golf Road to south city limits                East
Elmhurst Road       Golf Road to south city limits                West
Emerson Street      Meadow Lane to west end of Emerson            North
Emerson Street      Meadow Lane to west end of Emerson            South
Estes Avenue        Greco Avenue to Maple Street                  South
Everett Avenue      Chestnut Street to Illinois Street            North
Everett Avenue      Lee Street to Mannheim Road                   North
Evergreen Avenue    Entire street                                 South
Executive Way       At 1000 Executive Way, 100 feet west of east  North
                    property line
Executive Way       At 1090 Executive Way, 70 feet east of west   North
                    property line
Executive Way       Entire street                                 South
Fargo Avenue        Des Plaines Avenue to Maple Street            North
Fargo Avenue        Lee Street to Chestnut Street                 South
Farwell Avenue      Greco Avenue to Maple Street                  South
Fifth Avenue        At 340 Fifth Avenue                           West
Fifth Avenue        Forest Avenue to Algonquin Road               West
Fifth Avenue        Golf Road to the north end of Fifth Avenue    West
Fifth Avenue        Rand Road to Waikiki Drive                    East
Fifth Avenue        Rand Road to Waikiki Drive                    West
Fifth Avenue        Thacker Street to Fifth Court                 West
Fifth Court         Fourth Avenue to Fifth Avenue                 South
Fletcher Drive      Cumberland Parkway to Mount Prospect Road     North
Forest Avenue       Between Canadian National Railroad and Lee    South
                    Street
Forest Avenue       Between Wisconsin Central Railroad and Center North
                    Street
Forest Avenue       Center Street to Des Plaines River Road       South
Forest Avenue       Wolf Road to Lee Street                       North
Fourth Avenue       At 310 Fourth Avenue                          West
Fourth Avenue       North Avenue to Fifth Court                   Both
Fourth Avenue       Thacker Street to North Avenue                East
Frontage Road       Touhy Avenue to Mannheim Road exit            East
Frontage Road       Touhy Avenue to Mannheim Road exit            West
Garland Place       100 feet north from Miner Street              East
Golf Road           Cumberland Circle east to Soo Line tracks     North
Golf Road           Cumberland Circle east to Soo Line tracks     South
Golf Road           Wolf Road to Elmhurst Road                    North
Golf Road           Wolf Road to Elmhurst Road                    South
Good Avenue         Between Ballard Road and Suffield Street      West
Good Avenue         Church Street to Emerson Street               East
Good Avenue         Church Street to Emerson Street               West
Graceland Avenue    Jefferson Street to parking lot no. 1         East
                    entrance
Graceland Avenue    Jefferson Street to Perry Street              East
Graceland Avenue    Northwest Highway to Harding Avenue           West
Graceland Avenue    30 feet between signs in front of 365         East
                    Graceland Avenue
Graceland Avenue    30 feet between signs in front of 395         East
                    Graceland Avenue
Graceland Avenue    30 feet between signs in front of 437         East
                    Graceland Avenue
Graceland Avenue    30 feet between signs in front of 455         East
                    Graceland Avenue
Graceland Avenue    30 feet between signs in front of 477         East
                    Graceland Avenue
Greco Avenue        Touhy Avenue to Pratt Avenue                  East
Greco Avenue        Touhy Avenue to Pratt Avenue                  West
Greenleaf Avenue    Greco Avenue to Maple Street                  South
Greenview Avenue    First Avenue to Fifth Avenue                  North
Greenview Avenue    Fifth Avenue to Wolf Road                     South
Harding Avenue      Western Avenue to Willow Avenue               North
Harvey Avenue       North property line of 520 Harvey Avenue to   West
                    175 feet south
Hawthorne Lane      Rand Road north to a point 170 feet north of  West
                    Rand Road
Hawthorne Lane      Rand Road to Big Bend Drive                   East
Hazel Court         Ash Street to Bittersweet Court               South
Henry Avenue        Des Plaines Avenue to Soo Line tracks         South
Hickory Street      Touhy Avenue to Chase Avenue                  East
Higgins Road        Mannheim Road to River Road                   North
Highland Drive      Lee Street to Pine Street                     South
Hoffman Parkway     West of Alfini Drive                          North
Hoffman Parkway     West of Alfini Drive                          West end
Hollywood Avenue    First Avenue to Fourth Avenue                 South
Howard Avenue       Wolf Road east 300 feet                       North
Howard Avenue       Wolf Road east 300 feet                       South
Howard Avenue       Wolf Road to Mount Prospect Road              North
Howard Avenue       Wolf Road west 300 feet                       South
Ida Street          Perry Street to Jefferson Street              West
Illinois Street     Riverside Avenue to Howard Avenue             West
Jarvis Avenue       Scott Street to Cedar Street                  North
Jarvis Avenue       300 feet in front of 515 Jarvis               South
Jarvis Avenue       Wolf Road to dead end                         North
Jeannette Street    Algonquin Road to Thacker Street              West
Jeannette Street    Van Buren Street to Forest Avenue             West
Jefferson Street    Lee Street to Ida Street                      North
Jefferson Street    Miner Street to Graceland Avenue              North
Jefferson Street    Northwest Highway to Ida Street               South
Kathleen Drive      Cavan Lane to Elmhurst Road                   South
Kathleen Drive      Mount Prospect Road to 50 feet west of Mount  South
                    Prospect Road
Kathleen Drive      Mount Prospect Road to 30 feet west of Mount  North
                    Prospect Road
Kennicott Avenue    Birch Street to Des Plaines Avenue            South
Lance Drive         150 feet east of Beau Drive                   Both
Laurel Avenue       Prairie Avenue to Webford Avenue              Both
Laurel Avenue       Thacker Street to Webford Avenue              West
Laurel Avenue       Willow Road to Northwest Highway              East
Lechner Lane        Bellaire to Lyman                             South
Lee Street          Oakton Street north to north property         East
                    line of 1439 Lee Street
Lee Street          River Road south to Walnut Avenue             East
Lee Street          River Road to alley north of Miner Street     West
Lee Street          South property line of 1062 Lee Street to 50  West
                    feet north
Lee Street          Touhy Avenue to a point 890 feet north of     West
                    Touhy Avenue
Lincoln Avenue      Des Plaines Avenue to Soo Line tracks         South
Lincoln Avenue      Fourth Avenue to Sixth Avenue                 South
Linden Street       The alley (125 feet south of Oakton Street)   West
                    to Prospect Avenue
Locust Street       Oakton Street south to alley                  East
Locust Street       Oakton Street south to alley                  West
Lunt Avenue         Greco Avenue to Maple Street                  South
Lyman Avenue        Dempster Street to Prairie Avenue             West
Lyman Avenue        Lechner Lane to Church Street                 Both
Magnolia Street     Touhy Avenue to Jarvis Avenue                 East
Maple Street        51 feet north of Touhy Avenue to Howard       East
                    Avenue
Maple Street        Touhy Avenue north to dead end of the         West
                    industrial park
Maple Street        Touhy Avenue to south property line of        East
                    Orchard Place School
Margret Street      Algonquin Road to Thacker Street              West
Margret Street      Forest Avenue to Wicke Avenue                 East
Marshall Drive      Kathleen Drive to Millers Road                East
Marshall Drive      Kathleen Drive to Millers Road                West
Meyer Court         Davis Court to Cumberland Parkway             West
Mill Street         Along cul-de-sac                              East end
                    140 feet east of the east line of Des Plaines
Mill Street         River Road to the corner at the east line of  North
                    Des Plaines River Road
Mill Street         River Road to dead end                        South
Millers Road        Marshall Street to Elmhurst Road              North
Millers Road        Mount Prospect Road to Marshall Drive         South
Miner Street        Graceland Avenue to Rand Road                 South
Miner Street        Rand Road to Pearson Street                   North
Morse Avenue        Greco Avenue to Maple Street                  South
Mount Prospect Road Central Road south 300 feet                   East
Mount Prospect Road Howard Avenue to Oakton Street                East
Nelson Lane         Berkshire Lane to Central Road                West
Nimitz Drive        Curtis to Scott Street                        South
North Avenue        First Avenue to Fourth Avenue                 South
North Avenue        30 feet east of intersection of Fourth Avenue Both
                    and North Avenue
Northwest Highway   Mount Prospect Road to Graceland Avenue       North
Northwest Highway   Mount Prospect Road to Graceland Avenue       South
Oak Street          Brown Street to Harding Avenue                West
Oakton Place        Entire street                                 East
Oakton Street       Elmhurst Road to Soo Line tracks              North
Oakton Street       Elmhurst Road to Soo Line tracks              South
Oakton Street       Locust Street east to Des Plaines city limits Both
Oakton Street       Wolf Road east 300 feet                       North
Oakton Street       Wolf Road east 300 feet                       South
Oakton Street       Wolf Road west 300 feet                       North
Oakton Street       Wolf Road west 300 feet                       South
Oakwood Avenue      Des Plaines Avenue to Lee Street              South
                    Des Plaines River Road to alley located 155.5
Oakwood Avenue      feet west of the west line of Des Plaines     North
                    River Road
Oakwood Avenue      Graceland Avenue to Webster Lane              South
                    In front of 1380 Oakwood Avenue, from 50 feet
Oakwood Avenue      west of the centerline of Center Street to    North
                    183 feet west of the centerline of Center
                    Street (no parking between signs)
Orchard Court       Bulb of cul-de-sac                            Inside
Orchard Court       Greenview Avenue to the south property line   West
                    of 556 Orchard Court
Orchard Place       Higgins Road to Pratt Avenue                  East
Orchard Place       Higgins Road to Pratt Avenue                  West
Orchard Street      Forest Avenue to Oakton Street                West
Orchard Street      Howard Avenue to Everett Avenue               East
Orchard Street      Prospect Avenue to the alley (125 feet) south East
                    of Oakton Street
Oxford Road         Jarvis Avenue north to dead end               East
Oxford Road         Oakton Street to Forest Avenue                East
Parkview Lane       Busse Highway to dead end                     East
Parkview Lane       Busse Highway to dead end                     West
Parsons Avenue      Prairie Avenue to Arlington Road              South
Pearson Street      Des Plaines River Road south 150 feet         East
Pearson Street      Des Plaines River Road south to alley         West
Pearson Street      80 feet between signs in front of 675 Pearson East
                    Street
Pearson Street      20 feet between signs in front of 869 Pearson East
Pennsylvania Avenue Dover Drive to Roxbury Lane                   East
Pennsylvania Avenue Roxbury Lane north 100 feet                   West
Perry Street        Graceland Avenue to River Road                South
Perry Street        Lee Street west to west property line of bank North
                    drive-in
Perry Street        Northwest Highway to Laurel Avenue            South
Perry Street        25 feet between signs in front of 1347 Perry  South
                    Street
Perry Street        25 feet between signs in front of 1356 Perry  South
                    Street
Perry Street        30 feet between signs in front of 1325 Perry  South
                    Street
Perry Street        30 feet between signs in front of 1330 Perry  North
                    Street
Perry Street        30 feet between signs in front of 1378 Perry  North
                    Street
Perry Street        30 feet between signs in front of 1389 Perry  South
                    Street
Pine Street         Everett Avenue to Howard Avenue               West
Pine Street         Highland Drive to Howard Avenue               East
Plainfield Drive    North of Everett Avenue                       West
Prairie Avenue      Graceland Avenue to Center Street             North
Prairie Avenue      Laurel Avenue to Soo Line Railroad            North
Prairie Avenue      Laurel Avenue to Soo Line Railroad            South
Prairie Avenue      Lee Street to Center Street                   South
Prairie Avenue      Pearson Street to River Road                  North
Prairie Avenue      Second Avenue to dead end                     South
Pratt Avenue        Mannheim Road to Scott Street                 North
Pratt Avenue        Mannheim Road to Soo Line Railroad            South
Prospect Avenue     261/2 feet east and west of St. Stephens      North
                    Church entrance
Prospect Avenue     White Street west to park property            South
Rawls Road          Mount Prospect Road to dead end               South
Redeker Road        Across from 1297 Redeker Road                 North
Redeker Road        Across from 1387 Redeker Road                 North
River Road          Devon Avenue to Rand Road                     East
River Road          Devon Avenue to Rand Road                     West
River Street        River Road east to end                        South
Riverview Avenue    Birch Street to River Road                    South
Riverview Avenue    River Road west 130 feet to alley             North
Rose Avenue         Fifth Avenue to dead end                      South
Rose Avenue         First Avenue to Fourth Avenue                 South
Rose Avenue         Wolf Road to 50 feet west                     North
Roxbury Lane        Pennsylvania Avenue east 75 feet              North
Roxbury Lane        Pennsylvania Avenue to 95 feet east of the    South
                    east line of Pennsylvania Avenue
                    320 feet east of the east line of
Roxbury Lane        Pennsylvania Avenue to the east line of       South
                    Devonshire School
Sakas Drive         Rand Road to Woodland Avenue                  East
Sandy Lane          Lillian Lane to Marshall Drive                North
Santa Rosa Drive    West of Wolf Road                             North
Scott Street        Halsey Drive to Sunset Avenue                 East
Scott Street        Jarvis Avenue to Touhy Avenue                 West
Second Avenue       Algonquin Road to Thacker Street              East
Second Avenue       Forest Avenue to Van Buren                    East
Second Avenue       Thacker Street to North Avenue                West
Seegers Road        Broadway to Fourth Avenue                     South
Seegers Road        Fourth Avenue to Seventh Avenue               North
                                                                  (trucks only)
Seegers Road        Harvey Avenue to Weller Creek                 South
Seminary Avenue     Potter Road to Lyman Avenue                   South
Seminary Avenue     Potter Road west 475 feet                     North
Seymour Avenue      Algonquin Road to Dorothy Drive               West
Seymour Avenue      Algonquin Road to Florian Drive               East
Sherwin Avenue      Des Plaines Avenue to Magnolia                North
Sherwin Avenue      Frontage Road to Maple Street                 South
Sixth Avenue        Lincoln Avenue to Van Buren Street            West
Spruce Avenue       Fargo Avenue to Howard Avenue                 East
Spruce Avenue       Oakton Street south to alley                  West
State Street        Entire street                                 North
                                                                  (trucks only)
Stockton Street     Maple Street to White Street                  South
Stone Street        Eighth Avenue to Cambridge Road               South
Stone Street        Wolf Road west 125 feet                       North
Suffield Street     Good Avenue to Potter Road                    South
Sycamore Street     Central Avenue to Pratt                       East
Sycamore Street     Everett Avenue to Prospect Avenue             East
Thacker/Dempster    A distance of 100 feet east and west of Wolf  North
                    Road
Thacker/Dempster    A distance of 100 feet east and west of Wolf  South
                    Road
Thacker Street      30 feet in front of 1477 East Thacker         South
Third Avenue        Thacker Street to North Avenue                East
Times Drive         Executive Way to Oakton Street                East
Times Drive         Executive Way to Oakton Street                West
Touhy Avenue        River Road to Mount Prospect Road             North
Touhy Avenue        River Road to Mount Prospect Road             South
Trailside Lane      Entire street                                 East
Trailside Lane      Entire street                                 West
University Avenue   Bellaire Avenue west to dead end              North
University Avenue   Bellaire Avenue west to dead end              South
Van Buren Street    Des Plaines River Road to Soo Line tracks     South
Van Buren Street    Fifth Avenue to Wolf Road                     South
Van Buren Street    Lee Street to Margret Street                  South
Village Court       Drake Lane to Northwest Highway               West
Waikiki Drive       Fifth Avenue to Third Avenue                  North
Walnut Avenue       Center Street to west end                     North
Walnut Avenue       Des Plaines River Road to Center Street       South
Walnut Avenue       Jeannette Street to Webster Lane              South
Walnut Avenue       Lee Street to Jeannette Street                North
Walter Avenue       First Avenue to Fourth Avenue                 South
Warrington Road     Golf Road to Mount Prospect Road              East
Wayne Drive         Webster Lane to Earl Avenue                   South
Webford Avenue      Graceland Avenue to Arlington Avenue          North
Webford Avenue      Graceland Avenue to Laurel Avenue             South
Webster Lane        Algonquin Road to Thacker Street              West
Webster Lane        Carol Lane to Algonquin Road                  East
Webster Lane        Oakton Street north 175 feet                  East
Webster Lane        Oakton Street north 175 feet                  West
Webster Lane        Oakton Street south 190 feet                  East
Webster Lane        Oakton Street south 107 feet                  West
Webster Lane        163.5 feet south of the south line of         West
                    Oakton Street to Everett Avenue
Wedgewood Avenue    Entire street                                 East
Welwyn Avenue       Des Plaines River Road to Maple Street        South
Western Avenue      Northwest Highway to Harding Avenue           East
Western Avenue      Northwest Highway to Harding Avenue           West
Westgate Road       Within 25 feet of crosswalk in front of       Both
                    Terrace School
Westmere Road       Lillian Lane to Bell Drive                    North
Whitcomb Avenue     Des Plaines River Road to 60 feet west        North
Whitcomb Avenue     Des Plaines River Road to Soo Line tracks     South
White Street        Algonquin Road to 50 feet south               West
White Street        Algonquin Road to 100 feet north              West
White Street        Ashland Avenue to alley south of Oakton       East
                    Street
White Street        Everett Avenue to Prospect Avenue             East
White Street        Lincoln Avenue to Oakton Street               West
White Street        Oakton Street south to alley                  East
White Street        Riverview Avenue to Everett Avenue            West
Wicke Avenue        Center Street to west end                     North
Wicke Avenue        Des Plaines River Road to Center Street       South
Wieboldt Avenue     Entire length of street                       North
Wieboldt Avenue     Entire length of street                       South
Wilkins Drive       Golf Road to 60 feet south                    East
Wilkins Drive       Golf Road to 60 feet south                    West
Wille Road          Mount Prospect Road to Elmhurst Road          North
Wille Road          Mount Prospect Road to Elmhurst Road          South
Willow Avenue       Graceland Avenue to Laurel Avenue             North
Willow Avenue       Harding Avenue to Graceland Avenue            South
Willson Drive       Florian Drive to Dorothy Drive                East
Windsor Drive       Pennsylvania Avenue to east property line of  North
                    Devonshire School
Winthrop Drive      Oakton Street to dead end                     West
Winthrop Drive      275 feet to 410 feet south of the south line  East
                    of Oakton Street
Wolf Road           Golf Road to Touhy Avenue                     East
Wolf Road           Golf Road to Touhy Avenue                     West
Woodlawn Avenue     Arlington Avenue to Fourth Avenue             South
(Ord. T-12-84, 3-19-1984; amd. Ord. T-18-84, 7-16-1984; Ord. T-27-84, 11-5-
1984; Ord. T-4-85, 4-1-1985; Ord. T-1-86, 1-6-1986; Ord. T-4-86, 1-6-1986; Ord.
T-5-86, 2-3-1986; Ord. T-7-86, 3-17-1986; Ord. T-8-86, 4-7-1986; Ord. T-10-86,
4-21-1986; Ord. T-11-86, 6-2-1986; Ord. T-13-86, 9-2-1986; Ord. T-2-87, 3-16-
1987; Ord. T-6-87, 4-6-1987; Ord. T-8-87, 7-6-1987; Ord. T-9-87, 7-6-1987; Ord.
T-11-87, 7-6-1987; Ord. T-12-87, 9-21-1987; Ord. T-13-87, 9-21-1987; Ord. T-14-
87, 12-21-1987; Ord. T-4-88, 2-16-1988; Ord. T-5-88, 3-7-1988; Ord. T-7-88, 6-
6-1988; Ord. T-8-88, 8-1-1988; Ord. T-10-88, 8-1-1988; Ord. T-11-88, 8-1-1988;
Ord. T-16-88, 8-15-1988; Ord. T-17-88, 10-17-1988; Ord. T-4-89, 1-16-1989; Ord.
T-9-89, 6-5-1989; Ord. T-10-89, 6-19-1989; Ord. T-4-90, 6-4-1990; Ord. T-7-90,
7-2-1990; Ord. T-9-90, 11-5-1990; Ord. T-1-91, 3-4-1991; Ord. T-2-91, 2-18-
1991; Ord. T-3-91, 3-4-1991; Ord. T-4-91, 4-5-1991; Ord. T-5-91, 4-15-1991;
Ord. T-6-91, 7-1-1991; Ord. T-12-91, 9-16-1991; Ord. T-17-91, 11-4-1991; Ord.
T-4-92, 3-2-1992; Ord. T-5-92, 3-16-1992; Ord. T-7-92, 4-20-1992; Ord. T-2-93,
6-7-1993; Ord. T-3-93, 6-21-1993; Ord. T-4-93, 7-19-1993; Ord. T-6-93, 7-19-
1993; Ord. T-7-93, 7-19-1993; Ord. T-8-93, 7-19-1993; Ord. T-10-93, 8-16-1993;
Ord. T-11-93, 11-1-1993; Ord. T-2-94, 3-7-1994; Ord. T-5-94, 6-20-1994; Ord. T-
6-94, 8-15-1994; Ord. T-7-94, 9-6-1994; Ord. T-3-95, 2-6-1995; Ord. T-6-95, 7-
5-1995; Ord. T-10-95, 10-26-1995; Ord. T-7-96, 6-24-1996; Ord. T-8-96, 9-3-
1996; Ord. T-11-96, 1-6-1997; Ord. T-7-97, 6-16-1997; Ord. T-8-97, 9-15-1997;
Ord. T-9-97, 11-3-1997; Ord. T-11-97, 11-3-1997; Ord. T-12-97, 11-3-1997; Ord.
T-15-97, 12-1-1997; Ord. T-1-98, 1-19-1998; Ord. T-4-98, 3-2-1998; Ord. T-6-98,
2-17-1998; Ord. T-8-98, 3-16-1998; Ord. T-9-98, 5-18-1998; Ord. T-10-98, 5-18-
1998; Ord. T-11-98, 8-17-1998; Ord. T-4-99, 1-18-1999; Ord. T-5-99, 2-16-1999;
Ord. T-7-99, 4-5-1999; Ord. T-9-99, 11-15-1999; Ord. T-6-00, 9-5-2000; Ord. T-
8-00, 11-6-2000; Ord. T-1-01, 3-19-2001; Ord. T-4-01, 8-6-2001; Ord. T-3-02, 7-
1-2002; Ord. T-4-02, 8-19-2002; Ord. T-11-02, 10-21-2002; Ord. T-1-03, 2-18-
2003; Ord. T-4-03, 4-21-2003; Ord. T-8-03, 5-19-2003; Ord. T-14-03, 11-17-2003;
Ord. T-15-03, 11-17-2003; Ord. T-3-04, 4-5-2004; Ord. T-4-04, 4-5-2004; Ord. T-
11-04, 7-19-2004; Ord. T-19-04, 11-1-2004; Ord. T-1-05, 2-7-2005; Ord. T-5-05,
2-7-2005; Ord. T-7-05, 4-18-2005; Ord. T-8-05, 6-6-2005; Ord. T-9-05, 6-6-2005;
Ord. T-10-05, 9-19-2005; Ord. T-13-05, 12-19-2005; Ord. T-1-06, 2-21-2006; Ord.
T-2-06, 2-21-2006; Ord. T-4-06, 2-21-2006; Ord. T-5-06, 2-21-2006; Ord. T-9-06,
11-6-2006; Ord. T-11-06, 12-4-2006; Ord. T-3-07, 1-3-2007; Ord. T-2-09, 5-4-
2009; Ord. T-8-09, 7-20-2009)
7-3-4: PARKING LIMITED IN DESIGNATED PLACES:
Where signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
upon any street or portion thereof, during such period of time as designated on
the following schedule:
   SCHEDULE II
A. Fifteen Minute Parking Limit:
  1. Every day of the week - time limit only
  Street             Location                              This Side Of Street
  Miner Street       From Graceland Avenue to 200 feet     North
                      east of Graceland Avenue
B. Twenty Minute Parking Limit:
  1. Every day of the week - time limit only
  Street             Location                              This Side Of Street
  Oakton Street      White Street west to first driveway   South
C. Thirty Minute Parking Limit:
  1. Reserved.
  2. Monday through Friday 9:00 A.M. through 9:00 P.M., Saturday 9:00 A.M.
   through 6:00 P.M., excluding Sundays and holidays
  Street             Location                              This Side Of Street
                      East property line of 1413 Ellinwood
  Ellinwood Street   to west property line of 1411         South
                      Ellinwood
  3. Monday through Saturday 9:00 A.M. through 9:00 P.M.
  Street             Location                              This Side Of Street
  Pearson Street     Miner Street north to alley           West
D. One Hour Parking Limit:
  1. Every day of the week - time limit only
  Street             Location                              This Side Of Street
  None at this time.                                       
  2. Monday through Friday 9:00 A.M. through 9:00 P.M., Saturday 9:00 A.M.
   through 6:00 P.M., excluding Sundays and holidays
  Street             Location                              This Side Of Street
  Ellinwood Street   Graceland Avenue to west property     South
                      line of 1411 Birchwood
  Ellinwood Street   Lee Street to east property line of   South
                      1413 Ellinwood
  Ellinwood Street   Pearson Street to east property line  South
                      of 1549 Ellinwood
  Lee Street         Miner Street north to alley           West
  Lee Street         Prairie Avenue to Ellinwood Street    West
  Lee Street         Prairie Avenue to south property line West
                      of 770 Lee Street
  Miner Street       Pearson Street to a point 200 feet    North
                      east of Graceland Avenue
  Pearson Street     Miner Street north to driveway of 675 East
                      Pearson Street
  3. Monday through Saturday (excluding Sundays and holidays) from 9:00 A.M.
   through 4:00 P.M.
  Street             Location                              This Side Of Street
  Pearson Street     Ellinwood Street to a point 90 feet   East
                      south of Ellinwood
E. Two Hour Parking Limit:
  1.Every day of the week - time limit only
  Street             Location                              This Side Of Street
  Birchwood Avenue   Frontage Road to Maple Street         North
  Bradrock Drive     Mount Prospect Road to Winthrop       South
  Center Street      Oakwood Avenue north to alley         East
  Golf Road          425 East to 435 East Golf Road        South
  Illinois Street    From north of the cul-de-sac to       Both
                      Oakton Street
  Jefferson Street   Lee Street to Pearson Street          North
  Jefferson Street   Lee Street to Pearson Street          South
  Rawls Road         Mount Prospect Road to dead end       North
  Santa Rosa Drive   Wolf Road to dead end                 South
  Sherwin Avenue     Maple to Frontage Road                North
  2.Monday through Friday 9:00 A.M. through 9:00 P.M., Saturday 9:00 A.M.
   through 6:00 P.M., excluding Sundays and holidays
  Street             Location                              This Side Of Street
  Ellinwood Street   Across from 1575 Ellinwood, east to   North
                      River Road
  Ellinwood Street   Graceland to Lee Street               North
  Ellinwood Street   River Road to west property line of   South
                      1555 Ellinwood
  Graceland Avenue   Entrance to lot no. 1 to Prairie      East
  Lee Street         South property line of Immanual       West
                      Lutheran School to Soo Line Railroad
                      South property line of 770 Lee to
  Lee Street         north property line of Immanual       West
                      Lutheran School
  Maple Street       Oakton Street south to the alley      East
  Oakton Street      East property line of 1575 Oakton to  South
                      Soo Line Railroad
  Oakton Street      River Road to Soo Line Railroad       North
  Oakton Street      River Road to White Street            South
  White Street       From Oakton Street south to alley     West
                      (approximately 125 feet)
  3. Every day of the week, from 9:00 A.M. through 6:00 P.M.
  Street             Location Of Street                    This Side Of Street
  Walnut Avenue      Lee Street to Jeannette Street        South
  4. Monday through Saturday, from 7:00 A.M. through 6:00 P.M.
  Street             Location                              This Side Of Street
  Sycamore Street    Oakton Street to Riverview Avenue     Both sides
  5. Monday through Friday, 9:00 A.M. through 6:00 P.M., excluding Saturdays,
   Sundays and holidays
  Street             Location                              This Side Of Street
  Prairie Avenue     From Pearson Street to Des Plaines    South
                      River Road
  6.Monday through Friday, 8:00 A.M. through 5:00 P.M., excluding Saturdays,
   Sundays and holidays
  Street             Location                              This Side Of Street
                      From Des Plaines River Road to the
  Howard Avenue      west line of the commercial zoned     Both sides
                      property
F. Three Hour Parking Limit:
  1.Every day of the week - time limit only
  Street             Location                              This Side Of Street
  Center Street      From 100 feet south of Thacker Street West
                      to 100 feet north of Ashland Avenue
  2.Monday through Friday 9:00 A.M. through 9:00 P.M., Saturday 9:00 A.M.
   through 6:00 P.M., excluding Sundays and holidays
  Street             Location                              This Side Of Street
  Ellinwood Street   Across from 1575 Ellinwood            North
  Pearson Street     Ellinwood Street south to Prairie     West
                      Avenue
  Pearson Street     Prairie Street to a point 125 feet    East
                      south of Ellinwood
  3. Monday through Friday, 10:00 A.M. through 6:00 P.M., excluding Saturdays,
   Sundays and holidays
  Street             Location                              This Side Of Street
  Alles Street       Willow Avenue to Perry Street         West
  Ardmore Road       Drake Lane to State Street            East
  Ardmore Road       Drake Lane to State Street            West
  Arlington Avenue   Prairie Avenue to Webford Avenue      West
  Ash Street         1800 block                            East
  Ashland Avenue     Center Street to Des Plaines River    North
                      Road
  Ashland Avenue     200 feet east of Lee Street to Center South
                      Street
  Broadway           Northwest Highway to Golf Road        East
  Broadway           Northwest Highway to Golf Road        West
  Brown Street       Graceland Avenue to Western Avenue    North
  Cambridge Road     Northwest Highway to Drake Lane       West
  Center Street      Thacker Street to Prairie Avenue      East
  Cora Street        Alley north of Algonquin Road to      East
                      Ashland Avenue
  Golf Road          Broadway east to alley                South
  Graceland Avenue   Harding Avenue to Jefferson Street    West
  Graceland Avenue   Harding Avenue to Perry Street        East
  Graceland Avenue   Prairie Avenue to Soo Line Railroad   East
  Laurel Avenue      Northwest Highway to Harding Avenue   West
  Laurel Avenue      Thacker Street to Prairie Avenue      East
  Marion Street      Graceland Avenue to Laurel Avenue     North
  Marion Street      Graceland Avenue to Laurel Avenue     South
  Mill Street        River Road to dead end                North
  Northwest Highway  Broadway to State Street              North
  Oak Street         Harding Avenue to Brown Street        East
  Parsons Avenue     Prairie Avenue to Arlington Avenue    North
  Pearson Street     Prairie Avenue to Thacker Street      East
  Pearson Street     Prairie Avenue to Thacker Street      West
  Perry Street       Graceland Avenue to River Road        North
  Perry Street       Laurel Avenue to Graceland Avenue     North
  Perry Street       Laurel Avenue to Graceland Avenue     South
  Perry Street*      Northwest Highway to Laurel Avenue    North
  Perry Street       Paved parkway on south side of Perry  South
                      50 feet west of Northwest Highway
  Prairie Avenue     Graceland Avenue to Laurel Avenue     North
  Prairie Avenue     Graceland Avenue to Laurel Avenue     South
  River Street       River Road to dead end                North
  Seegers Road       Broadway to Seventh Avenue            North
  Seventh Avenue     Seegers Road to Yale Court            West
  State Street       Wolf Road to Cornell Avenue           North
  State Street       Wolf Road to Cornell Avenue           South
  Stratford Road     Drake Lane to State Street            East
  Stratford Road     Drake Lane to State Street            West
  Thacker Street     River Road to Laurel Avenue           North
  Thacker Street     River Road to Laurel Avenue           South
  Washington Street  Graceland Avenue to Western Avenue    North
  Webford Avenue     Laurel Avenue to Arlington Road       South
  White Street       100 feet north of Algonquin Road to   West
                      Ashland Avenue
  Winthrop Drive     Oakton Street to dead end             East
  Yale Court         Seventh Avenue to Broadway            North
  Yale Court         Seventh Avenue to Broadway            South
  *Perry Street exemption: A person may obtain a "hardship exemption" provided
   such person establishes:
      a. A residence or business on Perry Street, from Northwest Highway to
  Laurel Avenue, and shows the specific hardship for which the exemption
   sticker is needed. However, only 1 exemption shall be granted for each
   residence or business.
     b. Ownership of an automobile that has valid state of Illinois
   registration and has a valid city sticker for said automobile.
      c. Upon approval of an application for exemption, the police department
   shall deliver to the applicant a windshield sticker bearing the letter "E"
  and the year for which the exemption was issued, and it shall be the duty of
   the petitioner to affix such windshield sticker to the lower left hand
   corner, farthest removed from the driver's position, of the vehicle's
   windshield.
   Windshield stickers may not be transferred from 1 vehicle to another except
   as provided in section
  7-1-5 of this title. Any windshield sticker found on any vehicle other than
   the one to which it was issued shall immediately be revoked and the
   corresponding exception shall be forfeited for the remainder of the calendar
   year.
     d. Such "hardship exemption" must be reapplied for each year.
  3.1. Monday through Friday, 10:00 A.M. through 6:00 P.M., excluding
   Saturdays, Sundays and holidays
  Street             Location                              This Side Of Street
  Ida Street*        Perry Street to Jefferson Street      East
  Jefferson Street*  Graceland Avenue to Ida Street        North
  River Street*      From Des Plaines River Road to the    North
                      east end
  *Exemption: A person may obtain a "hardship exemption" from this section,
   provided such person establishes:
      a. Residence on Jefferson Street, Graceland Avenue to Ida Street; Ida
  Street, Perry Street to Jefferson Street; River Street from Des Plaines
   River Road to the east end; however, only 2 exemptions shall be granted for
   each residence;
     b. Ownership of an automobile that has valid state of Illinois
   registration and has a valid city sticker for said automobile;
      c. Upon receiving an application for exemption, the police department
   shall deliver to the applicant a windshield sticker bearing the letter "E"
  and the year for which the exemption was issued, and it shall be the duty of
   the petitioner to affix such windshield sticker to the lower left hand
   corner, farthest removed from the driver's position, of the vehicle's
   windshield.
   Windshield stickers may not be transferred from 1 vehicle to another except
   as provided in section
  7-1-5 of this title. Any windshield sticker found on any vehicle other than
   the one to which it was issued shall immediately be revoked and the
   corresponding exception shall be forfeited for the remainder of the calendar
   year.
G. Restricted Parking - Various Hours:
Street              Location                 This Side  Hours Of
                                             Of Street  Restricted Parking
                    Drake Lane to Stone                 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M.
Ardmore Road        Street                   East       daily except Saturdays,
                                                        Sundays and holidays
                    Drake Lane to Stone                 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M.
Ardmore Road        Street                   West       daily except Saturdays,
                                                        Sundays and holidays
                                                        No parking 10:00 P.M.
                                                        to 6:00 A.M. except for
                                                        Saturdays, Sundays,
Ash Street          1800 block               West       holidays (except for
                                                        student pick up/drop
                                                        off, across from 1871
                                                        and 1879 Ash Street)
                    Between 1454 Ashland                8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M.
Ashland Avenue      Avenue driveway and 905  North      weekdays
                    Center Street driveway
                    Adjacent to Brentwood               8:30 A.M. to 9:30 A.M.
Brentwood Drive     School and park property North/west and 3:00 P.M. to 4:00
                    (no parking, stopping,              P.M. on school days
                    standing)
                    60 feet from north edge
                    of                                  8:30 A.M. to 9:30 A.M.
Brentwood Drive     Dulles Road to 200 feet  East       and 3:00 P.M. to 4:00
                    from                                P.M. on school days
                    north edge of Dulles
                    Road
                    In front of 1984 and                9:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M.
Chestnut Street     1972                     West       daily, except
                    Chestnut Street                     Saturdays, Sundays and
                                                        holidays
                                                        7:00 A.M. to 9:00 A.M.
                    Algonquin Road north to             and 4:00 P.M. to 6:00
Cora Street         alley                    East       P.M. daily, except
                                                        Saturdays, Sundays,
                                                        holidays
                                                        7:00 A.M. to 9:00 A.M.
                    Algonquin Road 125 feet             and 4:00 P.M. to 6:00
Cora Street         south of Algonquin Road  East       P.M. daily, except
                                                        Saturdays, Sundays,
                                                        holidays
                    Drake Lane to Stone                 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M.
Cornell             Street                   West       weekdays
                    (200 block)
                                                        8:00 A.M. to 4:30 P.M.
Cornell Avenue      State Street to Drake    East       daily, except
                    Lane                                Saturdays, Sundays and
                                                        holidays
                    State Street to Drake               8:00 A.M. to 4:30 P.M.
Cornell Avenue      Lane                     West       daily, except
                                                        Saturdays, Sundays
                    Dulles Road to Westmere             8:30 A.M. to 9:30 A.M.
Dara James Road     Road                     West       and 3:00 P.M. to 4:00
                                                        P.M. on school days
Drake Lane          Cambridge Avenue to Wolf North      8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M.
                    Road                                weekdays
                    Brentwood Drive to
                    Bradley                             8:30 A.M. to 9:30 A.M.
Dulles Road         Street (no parking,      South      and 3:00 P.M. to 4:00
                    stopping,                           P.M. on school days
                    standing)
                    Brentwood Drive to east             8:30 A.M. to 9:30 A.M.
Dulles Road         edge of Brentwood School North      and 3:00 P.M. to 4:00
                    property (no parking,               P.M. on school days
                    stopping, standing)
                                                        7:45 A.M. to 8:45 A.M.
Elizabeth Lane      Joyce Drive to Kolpin    South      and 2:45 P.M. to 3:45
                    Drive                               P.M. on school days
                                                        only
Everett Avenue      Plainfield Drive to      South      8:00 A.M. to 9:00 A.M.
                    Webster Lane                        on school days
Everett Avenue      Spruce Avenue to         South      No parking 10:00 P.M.
                    Mannheim Road                       to 6:00 A.M.
                                                        8:30 A.M. to 9:30 A.M.
                    Forest Avenue to 500                and 3:00 P.M. to 4:00
Fifth Avenue        feet north (north school East       P.M. on school days
                    driveway)                           (except for student
                                                        pick up/drop off)
                    Golf Road to the north              8:00 A.M. to 9:00 A.M.
Fifth Avenue        end                      East       and 3:00 P.M. to 4:00
                                                        P.M. on school days
Fifth Avenue        Oakton Street to 100     Both sides 9:00 A.M. to 3:00 P.M.
                    feet north                          on school days
                                                        10:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M.
First Avenue        North Avenue to Woodlawn East       daily, except
                    Avenue                              Saturdays, Sundays,
                                                        holidays
                                                        10:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M.
First Avenue        North Avenue to Woodlawn West       daily, except
                    Avenue                              Saturdays, Sundays and
                                                        holidays
Good Avenue         Ballard Road to Church   East       12:00 noon to 4:00 P.M.
                    Street                              on Fridays
                    Elizabeth Lane to 400               7:45 A.M. to 8:45 A.M.
Kolpin Drive        feet                     Both sides and 2:45 P.M. to 3:45
                    north of Elizabeth Lane             P.M. on school days
                                                        only
                    225 feet north of Touhy             10:00 P.M. to 6:00 A.M.
Lee Street          Avenue                   West       daily
                    to Howard Avenue
                    Across from Orchard                 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M.
Maple Street        Place                    West       on school days
                    School (no parking)
                    In front of Orchard
                    Place                               8:30 A.M. to 9:30 A.M.
Maple Street        School (no parking,      East       and 3:00 P.M. to 4:00
                    stopping,                           P.M. on school days
                    standing)
                    Riverview Avenue to
                    alley                               9:00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M.
Maple Street        south of Oakton Street   East       except Saturdays,
                    (3                                  Sundays and holidays
                    hour parking only)
                    Riverview Avenue to
                    alley                               9:00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M.
Maple Street        south of Oakton Street   West       except Saturdays,
                    (3                                  Sundays and holidays
                    hour parking only)
                    Adjacent to Devonshire              8:30 A.M. to 9:30 A.M.
Pennsylvania Avenue School                   West       and 3:00 P.M. to 4:00
                                                        P.M. on school days
                    Between Everett Avenue              2:00 A.M. to 5:00 A.M.
Plainfield Drive    and                      East       daily
                    Tures Lane
                    Howard Avenue to north              No parking except on
Plainfield Drive    property line of 1850    West       Saturdays, Sundays and
                    Plainfield                          holidays
                                                        7:00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M.
Prairie Avenue      Center Street to Pearson North and  daily, except
                    Street                   south      Saturdays, Sundays and
                                                        holidays
                                                        9:00 A.M. to 9:00 P.M.
                    Lee Street to Graceland             Monday through Friday;
Prairie Avenue      Avenue                   South      9:00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M.
                                                        on Saturday (Sundays
                                                        and holidays excluded)
                                                        Pick up/drop off only,
Prospect Avenue     Adjacent to 1371 and     South      6:30 A.M. to 6:30 P.M.
                    1383 Prospect Avenue                except for Saturdays,
                                                        Sundays, and holidays
                    Ash Street to Pine                  2:00 A.M. to 9:00 A.M.
Prospect Avenue     Street                   North      daily, except Sundays
                                                        and holidays
                    Ash Street to Pine                  2:00 A.M. to 9:00 A.M.
Prospect Avenue     Street                   South      daily, except Sundays
                                                        and holidays
                                                        9:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M.
Seegers Road        In front of 510 and 570  North      daily, except
                    Seegers Road                        Saturdays, Sundays and
                                                        holidays
                    Frontage Road to a point            For tractors and
Sherwin Avenue      700 feet east (2 hour    South      trailers
                    parking only)                       only
                    Oakton Street to                    8:00 A.M. to 3:30 P.M.
Spruce Street       Mannheim                 East       daily, except
                    Road                                Saturdays, Sundays and
                                                        holidays
Suffield Street     Good Avenue to Potter    North      12:00 noon to 4:00 P.M.
                    Road                                on Fridays
                    100 feet west of Wolf               7:00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M.
Thacker/Dempster    Road                     North      daily, except
                    to Mount Prospect Road              Saturdays, Sundays and
                                                        holidays
                    100 feet west of Wolf               7:00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M.
Thacker/Dempster    Road                     South      daily, except
                    to Mount Prospect Road              Saturdays, Sundays and
                                                        holidays
                                                        8:00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M.
Third Avenue        Rand Road to dead end    West       daily, except
                                                        Saturdays, Sundays and
                                                        holidays
                    Northern driveway of                8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M.
Westgate Road       Terrace                  West       on school days
                    School to Thacker Street
                    Pennsylvania Avenue to              8:30 A.M. to 9:30 A.M.
Windsor Drive       east property line of    South      and 3:00 P.M. to 4:00
                    137 West                            P.M. on school days
                    Windsor Drive
                                                        7:00 A.M. to 9:00 A.M.
                    Cumberland Circle to                and 4:00 P.M. to 6:00
Wolf Road           Rand Road                Both sides P.M. daily, except
                                                        Saturdays, Sundays
                                                        and holidays
                    From Touhy Avenue to                7:00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M.
Wolf Road           Santa                    Both sides daily
                    Rosa Drive
 
   Metropolitan Square: The on street parking within the Metropolitan Square
   development (streets listed below) shall be restricted in accordance with
H. the signs posted. Unless otherwise indicated on the posted signs, the
   restrictions shall be effective every day of the week, twenty four (24)
   hours a day.
  Street           Location
  Market Place     Lee Street to Pearson Street
  Metropolitan Way Circular Plaza north of Market Street
  Metropolitan Way Miner Street to Market Street
(Ord. T-13-84, 6-4-1984; amd. Ord. T-19-84, 7-16-1984; Ord. T-20-84, 8-6-1984;
Ord. T-6-86, 2-3-1986; Ord. T-10-86, 4-21-1986; Ord. T-12-86, 7-7-1986; Ord. T-
14-86, 10-20-1986; Ord. T-15-86, 12-15-1986; Ord. T-3-87, 3-16-1987; Ord. T-5-
87, 4-6-1987; Ord. T-7-87, 7-6-1987; Ord. T-10-87, 7-6-1987; Ord. T-15-87, 12-
21-1987; Ord. T-1-88, 2-1-1988; Ord. T-3-88, 2-16-1988; Ord. T-6-88, 3-7-1988;
Ord. T-12-88, 8-1-1988; Ord. T-13-88, 8-1-1988; Ord. T-15-89, 2-20-1990; Ord.
T-17-89, 1-2-1990; Ord. T-5-90, 6-18-1990; Ord. T-7-90, 7-2-1990; Ord. T-8-90,
8-6-1990; Ord. T-1-91, 3-4-1991; Ord. T-2-91, 2-18-1991; Ord. T-4-91, 4-5-1991;
Ord. T-5-91, 4-15-1991; Ord. M-20-91, 6-17-1991; Ord. T-13-91, 9-16-1991; Ord.
T-17-91, 11-4-1991; Ord. T-3-92, 3-2-1992; Ord. T-6-92, 4-6-1992; Ord. T-15-92,
9-8-1992; Ord. T-7-93, 7-19-1993; Ord. T-8-93, 7-19-1993; Ord. T-10-93, 8-16-
1993; per letter dated 1-24-1994; Ord. T-2-94, 3-7-1994; Ord. T-3-94, 3-7-1994;
Ord. T-5-94, 6-20-1994; Ord. T-4-95, 2-21-1995; Ord. T-4-96, 1-15-1996; Ord. T-
8-96, 9-3-1996; Ord. T-13-96, 1-6-1997; Ord. T-1-97, 1-20-1997; Ord. T-3-97, 2-
18-1997; Ord. T-4-97, 3-3-1997; Ord. T-6-97, 6-16-1997; Ord. T-8-97, 9-15-1997;
Ord. T-10-97, 11-3-1997; Ord. T-13-97, 11-3-1997; Ord. T-17-97, 1-5-1998; Ord.
T-1-98, 1-19-1998; Ord. T-4-98, 3-2-1998; Ord. T-7-98, 2-2-1998; Ord. T-12-98,
8-17-1998; Ord. T-13-98, 8-17-1998; Ord. T-15-98, 11-16-1998; Ord. T-6-99, 3-1-
1999; Ord. T-12-99, 12-20-1999; Ord. T-6-00, 9-5-2000; Ord. T-7-00, 10-16-2000;
Ord. T-9-00, 12-18-2000; Ord. T-2-02, 5-20-2002; Ord. T-9-03, 5-19-2003; Ord.
T-10-03, 8-4-2003; Ord. T-12-03, 10-6-2003; Ord. T-1-04, 2-2-2004; Ord. T-5-04,
6-21-2004; Ord. T-6-04, 7-6-2004; Ord. T-7-04, 7-19-2004; Ord. T-9-04, 7-19-
2004; Ord. T-10-04, 7-19-2004; Ord. T-2-05, 2-7-2005; Ord. T-3-05, 2-7-2005;
Ord. T-4-05, 2-7-2005; Ord. T-3-06, 2-21-2006; Ord. T-6-06, 2-21-2006; Ord. T-
7-06, 10-16-2006; Ord. T-8-06, 10-16-2006; Ord. T-5-07, 6-4-2007; Ord. T-2-09,
5-4-2009; Ord. T-9-09, 7-20-2009; Ord. M-12-18, 6-18-2018)
7-3-5: STANDING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Loading Operations:
      1.   No person shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle for any purpose or
period of time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of
passengers in any place marked as a passenger loading zone during hours when
the regulations applicable to such passenger loading zone are effective and
then only for a period not to exceed three (3) minutes.
      2.   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivering or pick
up and loading of materials in any place marked as a merchandise loading zone
during hours when the provisions applicable to such loading zones are in
effect. In no case shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed
thirty (30) minutes. (2-20-39)
      3.   No person shall stop, stand, or park an automobile carrier in a C-
4 Commercial Central Business District or R-5 Residential Central Core
Multiple- Family Residence District, for the purpose of loading or unloading
automobiles. (Ord. M-51-92, 12-7-1992)
      4.   No drivers of intercity buses shall stop, stand, or park any
intercity bus to load or unload passengers at any passenger loading zone or at
any location in the City except as permitted by Section
7-3-5.D.
   B.   Standing Or Parking Close To Curb: No person shall stand or park a
vehicle in a roadway other than parallel with the edge of the roadway or curb,
headed in the direction of traffic, and with the two (2) right wheels of the
vehicle within twelve inches (12") of the edge of the roadway or curb, except
upon those streets which have been marked or indicated by signs for angle
parking, vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the curb indicated by such
mark or signs.
   C.   Standing Or Parking For Sale, Repair Or Advertising: No person shall
stand or park a vehicle upon a roadway for the principal purpose of:
      1.   Displaying it for sale.
      2.   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
      3.   Primary purpose of advertising. (2-20-39)
   D.   Intercity Bus Stops:
      1.   Definitions. For the purpose of this Subsection D, the terms used
will have the definitions ascribed to them by the Illinois Vehicle Code unless
otherwise specifically provided in this Subsection or unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The following additional
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires different
meaning:
INTERCITY BUS: Any bus used for the one-way transportation of 10 or more
passengers originating from a location outside of the City that is not a
regularly scheduled service.
REGULARLY SCHEDULED SERVICE: Any bus involving passengers disembarking in the
City on a predictable and recurring basis, following a schedule that is
published in advance and available to the general public, and provides service
in exchange for paying a fare.
UNSCHEDULED STOP: The stopping or standing of an Intercity Bus within the City
for the purpose of unloading or the disembarking of passengers without prior
approval of the City as required by Section
7-3-5D of this Code.
   2.   Prohibited: Unscheduled stops of intercity buses are declared to be a
nuisance and are prohibited in the City.
   3.   Intercity buses may stop to allow passengers to disembark in the City
only if they comply with all of the following conditions and restrictions:
      a.   Permitted Hours.
         (1)   Intercity buses may only stop or stand to allow passengers to
disembark within the City between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., Monday
through Friday, but not on any federal, state, or City holidays;
         (2)   No intercity bus may allow passengers to disembark except within
30 minutes before or after the time designated in an application that has been
approved pursuant to this Section
7-3-5.D.
      b.   Permitted Location. Intercity buses may only stop or stand to allow
passengers to disembark within the City at the downtown Metra train station
located at 1501 Miner Street;
      c.   Coordination of Disembarking Passengers: The intercity bus must be
met by individuals responsible for coordinating the transportation of the
passengers from the stop location in the City to their final destination(s);
and
      d.   Advance approval: The owner, operator, or driver of an intercity bus
must obtain advance written approval of the City prior to making a stop and
allowing passengers to disembark within the City. In order to obtain advanced
approval of a stop, the owner, operator, or driver of the intercity bus must
submit an application to the Chief of Police or their designee at least five
business days before the date of the proposed stop. The application must
include the following information:
         (1)   The full name, full address, and telephone numbers, including
mobile telephone numbers of the owner, operator, and driver of the intercity
bus;
         (2)   The make, model, state registration/plate number, fleet number,
and vehicle identification number (VIN) of the bus that will be providing the
service;
         (3)   The number of passengers, including the number of minor
children, proposed to disembark in the City of Des Plaines, as well as the
direct contact phone number and email for the on-scene coordinator;
         (4)   The date and time of the proposed stop at which the applicant’s
passengers will disembark in the City;
         (5)   Any additional information that the Chief of Police or their
designee determines is required provided that such information is related to
the purpose of this Section; and
         (6)   An affirmation by the applicant that the information provided in
the application is true and correct. Such affirmation must be attested to by a
person authorized to administer oaths or witness affirmations within the state
or territory where the application is sworn to or affirmed.
         (7)   Review of Application. Upon receipt of the application for an
intercity bus stop submitted pursuant to this Section, the Chief of Police will
undertake a review of the information contained in the application to verify
its truth and authenticity. If the application is incomplete, the Chief of
Police will, in writing, advise the applicant of the additional items needed to
complete the application. No later than three business days after receiving a
completed application, the Chief of Police will inform the applicant, in
writing, that the application is approved or denied for the proposed location
of disembarkation in the City. A notice of denial will state the grounds for
denial. Grounds for denial of an application may include the following:
            A.   The receipt of bona fide information that the application
contains materially false or misrepresented information;
            B.   Existence of past-due fines for previous violations of this
Section
7-3-5 by any entity listed on the application;
            C.   The failure to provide any of the information or meet the
standards required by this Section
7-3-5;
            D.   Any extenuating factors that would increase the threat to
public health and safety due to staffing or operational constraints.
         (8)   Revocation. The approval of an application pursuant to this
Section may be revoked by the Chief of Police upon their determination that the
application contains any false or misleading information.
         (9)   Proof of Application and Approval. The driver of an intercity
bus approved pursuant to this Section
7-3-5.D. must have in their possession a physical or electronic copy of the
approved application and present it for inspection at the stop location upon
request by an employee or designee of the City.
      4.   Penalty. The owner, operator, or driver of any Intercity Bus that
stops or unloads passengers in violation of this Section
7-3-5.D. is subject to a fine as set forth in Section
7-10-6 of this Code. (Ord. M-2-24, 1-16-2024)
7-3-6: BUS AND TAXICAB STANDS:
   A.   The driver of a bus or taxicab shall not stand or park upon any street
in any business district at any place other than at a bus stop or taxicab stand
respectively, except that this provision shall not prevent the driver of any
such vehicle from temporarily stopping at any place for the purpose of and
while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers, but only in
accordance with the stopping, standing, or parking regulations, including,
without limitation, Section
7-3-5.D. of this Chapter.
   B.   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when any such stop or
stand has been officially designated and appropriately indicated by signs,
except that the driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for
the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers
when such stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter
or about to enter such zone. (2-20-39)
   C.   No taxicab or vehicle with "livery" plates shall stop, stand or park in
a taxicab stand or area where such area is officially designated and
appropriately posted as "Taxi Only, No Livery Plates Permitted". (Ord. M-67-97,
10-20-1997; amd. Ord. M-2-24, 1-16-2024)
7-3-7: PEDESTRIAN STANDING ON SIDEWALK:
It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to stand upon any sidewalk except as
nearly as is reasonably possible to the building line or the curb line, if such
standing interferes with the use of said sidewalk for pedestrian travel. (2-20-
39)
7-3-8: PARKING DURING SNOW REMOVAL OPERATIONS:
   A.   On Snow Routes: After a two inch (2") snowfall, it shall be unlawful to
park any vehicle, or to allow any vehicle to remain parked, on any snow route
until snow removal operations are completed. The following are snow routes for
purposes of this section:
Algonquin Road          Des Plaines Avenue to Elmhurst Road
Beau Drive              Dempster Street to Golf Road
Beau Drive              Thacker Street to Florian Drive
Bellaire Avenue         Ballard Road to University Street
Berkshire Lane          Third Avenue to Wolf Road
Berkshire Lane          Wolf Road to Clayton Lane
Big Bend Drive          Hawthorne Lane to dead end
Bradley Street          Dulles Road to Little Path Road
Callen Lane             Dursey Lane to Castlerea Lane
Cambridge Road          Wisconsin Drive to Northwest Highway
Carlow Drive            Central Road to Waterford Drive
Carol Lane              Forest Avenue to Webster Lane
Castlerea Lane          Callen Lane to Longford Drive
Center Street           Oakton Street to Ellinwood Street
Chestnut Street         Fargo Avenue to Howard Avenue
Church Street           Bellaire Avenue to Potter Road
Circle Street           Everett Avenue to Mannheim Road
Clark Lane              Algonquin Road to Leahy Circle South
Cora Street             Thacker Street to Everett Avenue
Cordial Drive           Elmhurst Road to Marshall Drive
Craig Drive             David to Stillwell
Craig Drive             Scott Street to Rusty Drive
Danbury Lane            Roxbury Lane to Lancaster Lane
Denver Drive            Pennsylvania Avenue to Miami Lane
Dulles Road             Bradley to Beau Drive
Dursey Lane             Wolf Road to Callen Lane
Eighth Avenue           Princeton to Golf Road
Elizabeth Lane          Janice Avenue to Joyce Drive
Everett Avenue          Des Plaines Avenue to Circle Street
Everett Avenue          Lee Street to Mannheim Road
Fargo Avenue            Lee Street to Chestnut Street
Fargo Avenue            Maple Street to Des Plaines Avenue
Fifth Avenue            Polynesian Drive to Rand Road
First Avenue            Prairie Avenue to North Avenue
Florian Drive           Beau Drive to Marshall Drive
Forest Avenue           Lee Street to Wolf Road
Forest Avenue           White Street to Des Plaines Avenue
Fourth Avenue           North Avenue to Thacker Street
Fremont Avenue          Mount Prospect Road to LaSalle Street
Good Avenue             Ballard Road to Emerson Street
Graceland Avenue        Rand Road to Lee Street
Greenview Avenue        First Avenue to Wolf Road
Harding Avenue          Western to Lee Street
Hawthorne Lane          Rand Road to Big Bend Drive
Hoffman Parkway         Third Avenue to Wolf Road
Holiday Lane            Elmhurst Road to east end
Howard Avenue           Des Plaines Avenue to Mount Prospect Road
Jarvis Avenue           Wolf Road to Eastview Drive
Jefferson Street        Graceland to Des Plaines Avenue
Jon Lane                Central Road to Simone Drive
Joyce Drive             Cordial Drive to Elizabeth Lane
Kathleen Drive          Mount Prospect Road to Elmhurst Road
Kolpin Drive            Algonquin Road to Elizabeth Lane
Kylemore Drive          Linsmore Drive to Wolf Road
Lancaster Lane          Danbury Lane to Pennsylvania Avenue
LaSalle Street          Millers Road to Fremont Avenue
Leahy Circle            Millers Road to Bradley Street
Leahy Circle East       Bradley Street to Stark Place
Leahy Circle South      Stark Place to Clark Lane
Lee Street              Rand Road to Touhy Avenue
Linsmore Drive          Waterford Drive to Kylemore Drive
Little Path Road        Bradley Street to Westmere Road
Longford Drive          Castlerea Lane to Wolf Road
Madelyn Drive           Timothy Lane North to Timothy Lane East
Maple Street            Pratt Avenue to Oakton Street
Mark Avenue             Wolf Road to Timothy Lane
Marshall Drive          Algonquin Road to Golf Road
Marshall Drive          Cordial to Oakton Street
Marshall Drive          Florian to Algonquin Road
Meadow Drive            Rand Road (at Third Avenue) to Rand Road (at Fifth
                        Avenue)
Miami Lane              Denver Drive to Springfield Avenue
Millers Road            LaSalle Street to Mount Prospect Road
Millers Road            Mount Prospect Road to Elmhurst Road
Miner-Northwest Highway River to Graceland/Broadway to State
Morgan O'Brien Drive    Mount Prospect Road to Marina Street
North Avenue            First Avenue to Fourth Avenue
Oakton Street           Des Plaines Avenue to Elmhurst Road
Orchard Street          Everett Avenue to Forest Avenue
Pearson Street          Thacker Street to Des Plaines Avenue
Pennsylvania Avenue     Dover Drive to Algonquin Road
Plainfield Drive        Howard Avenue to Everett Avenue
Prairie Avenue          Des Plaines Avenue to Wolf Road
Pratt Avenue            Craig to Mannheim Road
Princeton               Wolf Road to Eighth Avenue
Princeton               Wolf Road to Mount Prospect Road
Riverview Avenue        Chestnut Street to River Road
Roxbury Lane            Mount Prospect Road to Pennsylvania Avenue
Rusty                   Touhy Avenue to David
Rusty Drive             Craig Drive to Touhy Avenue
Scott Street            Sunset to Touhy Avenue
Seymour Avenue          Florian Drive to Algonquin Road
Sherwin Avenue          Magnolia Street to Des Plaines River Road
Springfield Avenue      Pennsylvania Avenue to Miami Lane
State Street            Wolf Road to Northwest Highway
Stillwell               Sunset to Devon
Stillwell Drive         Craig Drive to Sunset Avenue
Sunset                  Scott Street to Stillwell Drive
Thacker Street          Des Plaines Avenue to Elmhurst Road
Third Avenue            Rand Road to Yorkshire Lane
Third Avenue            Thacker Street to Algonquin Road
Timothy Lane            Madelyn Drive South to Yorkshire Lane
Timothy Lane            Mark Avenue to Madelyn Drive North
Waikiki Drive           Third Avenue to dead end
Walnut Avenue           Marshall Drive to Warrington Road
Warrington Road         Walnut Avenue to Bradley Street
Warrington Road         Washington Street to Mount Prospect Road
Washington Street       Warrington Road to Westgate Road
Waterford Drive         Carlow Drive to Linsmore Drive
Webster Lane            Carol Lane to Algonquin Road
Webster Lane            Forest Avenue to Howard Avenue
Westgate Road           Washington Street to Thacker Street
Westmere Road           Mount Prospect Road to Little Path Road
White Street            Oakton Street to Ashland Avenue
Wilkens Drive           Golf Road to Bradley
Wisconsin Drive         Cambridge Road to Mount Prospect Road
Wolf Road               Golf Road to Rand Road
Wolf Road               Touhy Avenue to south city limits
Woodland Avenue         River Road to Grove Avenue
Yorkshire Lane          Timothy Lane to Third Avenue
(Ord. T-10-74, 3-18-1974; amd. Ord. T-1-78, 2-20-1978; Ord. T-2-78, 4-3-1978;
Ord. T-4-79, 2-5-1979; Ord. T-7-79, 2-19-1979; Ord. M-58-79, 11-19-1979; Ord.
T-2-82, 2-15-1982; Ord. T-10-82, 10-18-1982; Ord. T-2-90, 5-7-1990; Ord. T-8-
91, 7-1-1991; Ord. T-2-04, 4-19-2004; Ord. M-11-15, 4-20-2015)
   B.   In Parking Lots When Snow On Surface: It shall be unlawful for any
person to park any vehicle or to allow any vehicle over which the same has
control to remain parked in a parking lot owned or operated by the city between
the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M., at any time
after snow on the surface of the parking lot exceeds two inches (2") in depth.
Any person who violates the terms of subsections A and B of this section or
resists the enforcement thereof shall be fined as set out in section
7-10-6 of this title. In addition, each such offender shall be liable to the
city for any and all reasonable towing or hauling charges incurred by the city
in removing any such vehicles so parked in violation of this section.
Furthermore, in addition to the penalties called for herein, the owner of any
such vehicle so parked in violation of this chapter shall be liable to the city
for all reasonable charges of towing and storage in the event that it shall
become necessary, in the discretion of the director of public works, that such
vehicle be removed to allow snow removal operations. (Ord. T-5-85, 4-1-1985)
   C.   On Secondary Streets: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle or to
allow any vehicle to remain parked on any public street in the city other than
a snow route, as provided for in subsection A of this section, at any time when
snow removal operations are taking place on such street. Signs indicating that
snow removal operations will take place on a specific street shall be posted on
said street not less than six (6) hours prior to the removal by the city.
   D.   Removal Of Vehicle: In addition, the city is authorized to remove or
have removed, at the discretion of the director of public works, any vehicle
which violates this section. Any vehicle removed may be stored by the city or
moved to another place on a street. If a vehicle is removed or moved the
offender shall be liable to the city for any and all reasonable towing or
hauling charges in addition to any fine or penalty. (Ord. T-6-79, 2-5-1979;
amd. Ord. M-59-93, 12-6-1993)
7-3-9: RESIDENTIAL PARKING ONLY:
   A.   Between The Hours Of Eight O'Clock A.M. To Six O'Clock P.M. Only: The
following areas are designated as "resident parking only" areas, during the
hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to six o'clock (6:00) P.M. daily, and when
signs are erected giving notice thereof, parking shall be restricted to service
of delivery vehicles whose operators are doing business with residents of the
designated areas and vehicles owned by residents of the designated areas:
      1.   Evergreen Avenue between Laurel Avenue and Graceland Avenue, not
including Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.
      2.   Willow Avenue between Laurel Avenue and Graceland Avenue, not
including Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.
      3.   The south side of Brentwood Drive, excluding that portion of said
street from the corner of Dulles Road to the end of Brentwood School property.
   B.   Twenty-Four Hours Daily:
      1.   Including Saturdays, Sundays, Holidays: The following areas are
designated as "residential parking only" areas, 24 hours daily, including
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, and when signs are erected giving notice
thereof, parking shall be restricted to service of delivery vehicles whose
operators are doing business with residents of the designated areas and
vehicles owned by residents of the designated areas:
Bennett Place       From Locust Street east to alley, north side of street.
Cedar Street        From Jarvis Avenue to Touhy Avenue.
Chase Avenue        From Scott Street to Des Plaines River Road.
Cordial Drive       Both sides from Marshall Drive to 600 feet west thereof.
Dover Drive         South side from west property line of 255 Dover Drive to
                    west property line of 93 Dover Drive.
Hickory Street      From Chase Avenue to Touhy Avenue.
Irwin Avenue        From Koehler Drive to Shepherd Drive.
Jarvis Avenue       From Cedar Street to Magnolia Street.
Koehler Drive       Irwin Avenue to Howard Avenue.
Magnolia Street     From Jarvis Avenue to Touhy Avenue.
Marshall Drive      Both sides from Courtesy Lane north to Mount Prospect park
                    district property.
Patton Drive        From Craig Drive to Devon Avenue.
Pennsylvania Avenue Both sides from Oakton Street north to Dover Drive.
Scott Street        From Jarvis Avenue to Touhy Avenue.
Shepherd Drive      From Irwin Avenue to Howard Avenue.
Stockton Avenue     From Koehler Drive To Shepherd Drive.
 
   2.   Excluding Sundays: The following areas are designated as "residential
parking only" areas, 24 hours daily, excluding Sundays, and when signs are
erected giving notice thereof, parking shall be restricted to the service of
delivery vehicles whose operators are doing business with residents of the
designated areas and vehicles owned by residents of the designated areas:
 
Prospect Avenue Both sides from the intersection with Deane/Circle Streets to
                Illinois Street.
(Ord. T-16-86, 12-15-1986; amd. Ord. T-1-00, 2-7-2000; 2002 Code; Ord. T-7-03,
5-19-2003; Ord. T-10-06, 12-4-2006; Ord. T-2-09, 5-4-2009; Ord. M-20-23, 12-4-
2023; Ord. M-9-24, 6-3-2024; Ord. M-18-24, 10-7-2024)
7-3-10: RESTRICTED RESIDENT PARKING DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose Of Restricted Resident Parking District:
      1.   Allstate Arena immediately abuts a residential district of the city
of Des Plaines.
      2.   Use of the Allstate Arena has caused an increase in the flow of
traffic and use of the streets in the abutting Des Plaines residential
district.
      3.   The increase in flow of traffic and usage of the streets in the
abutting residential district constitutes a hazard to the health, safety and
welfare of the residents of this abutting residential district. (Ord. T-4-80,
5-5-1980)
   B.   Definition Of Encompassed Area, Resident Parking District - Phase I:
From the intersection of Touhy Avenue and Mannheim Road, south on Mannheim Road
to Higgins Road; east on Higgins Road to Scott Street; north on Scott Street to
Touhy Avenue; west on Touhy Avenue to Mannheim Road. (Ord. T-9-91, 7-1-1991)
   C.   Resident Parking District - Towaway Zone: The resident district
specified in subsection B of this section shall constitute a towaway zone
wherein posted.
   D.   Resident Parking Only - Resident District:
      1.   The following streets shall be resident parking only (within the
abovementioned district, when signs are erected giving notice thereof):
Central Road      North side from Greco Avenue to Curtis Street.
Curtis Street     From Pratt Avenue to south end.
Estes Avenue      North side from Greco Avenue to Maple Street.
Farwell Avenue    North side from Greco Avenue to Maple Street.
Greenleaf Avenue  North side from Greco Avenue to Maple Street.
Lunt Avenue       North side from Greco Avenue to Maple Street.
Maple Street      East side from Pratt Avenue to Orchard Place School.
                 West side from Pratt Avenue to Touhy Avenue.
Morse Avenue      North side from Greco Avenue to Maple Street.
Nimitz Drive      From Curtis Street to Scott Street.
Northshore Avenue North and south sides from Curtis Street to Eisenhower Drive.
Pratt Avenue      South side from Mannheim Road to Eisenhower Drive.
Sycamore Street   From Pratt Avenue to Central Avenue.
   (Ord. T-4-80, 5-5-1980; amd. Ord. T-10-80, 7-21-1980; Ord. T-9-91, 7-1-1991)
   E.   No Parking 9:00 P.M. To 6:00 A.M. - Resident District: The following
streets shall be "No Parking 9:00 P.M. to 6:00 A.M." (within the abovementioned
district, when signs are erected giving notice thereof):
 
Street         Location                         Side
Fargo Avenue   Lee Street east to Ash Street    North
Highland Drive Lee Street east to Spruce Avenue North
 
   (Ord. T-10-80, 7-21-1980; amd. Ord. T-3-84, 4-2-1984; Ord. T-22-84, 8-6-
1984; Ord. M-20-23, 12-4-2023)
7-3-11: PARKING NEAR FIRE STATIONS, APPARATUS OR LANES:
   A.   Hydrants: No person shall park any vehicle or cause any obstruction,
within fifteen feet (15') of any fire hydrant. (Ord. T-11-05, 11-7-2005)
   B.   Stations: No person shall park any vehicle or cause any obstruction,
within fifteen feet (15') of the driveway entrance to any fire station.
   C.   Apparatus:
      1.   No driver of any vehicle, except cars of members of the fire
department, shall follow within three hundred feet (300') of any fire apparatus
responding to an alarm of fire, nor park within the block where the fire
apparatus has stopped at a fire. (Ord. M-4-83, 3-21-1983)
      2.    No person shall park any vehicle, or cause any obstruction within
fifteen feet (15') of any fire department automatic sprinkler connection 1
. (Ord. T-11-05, 11-7-2005)
   D.   Fire Lanes:
      1.   Designation: The fire chief may require and designate public or
private fire lanes as deemed necessary for the effective use of fire apparatus
and/or emergency medical service vehicles.
         a.   All fire lanes required by the fire chief shall be a minimum of
twenty feet (20') in width, and conform with the specifications of the city,
and the national fire codes, and NFPA #1, section 3-1.1.10.
         b.   All fire lanes shall be signposted as fire lanes, maintained and
legible, and free of ice and snow, at the sole expense of the owner of the
property upon which said signs are located and at the locations designated by
the fire chief.
         c.   All fire lane signs shall be of a city approved design, size and
color.
         d.   Any curbs existing within the fire lane shall be painted with an
approved yellow traffic paint at the sole expense of the property owner and
maintained in a visible condition to indicate no parking.
      2.   Obstructions: Designated fire lanes shall be maintained free of
obstructions and vehicles.
         a.   Whenever fire lanes are designated and required, it shall be
unlawful for any person to block or obstruct, wholly or partly, any duly
designated and posted fire lane. (Ord. M-37-86, 8-4-1986)
         b.   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be
fined no less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each offense. The imposition of one penalty for any
violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed during each day that the offense shall occur
or continue. (Ord. M-98-04, 12-6-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  7-10-6 of this title for specific code violation and fine.
7-3-12: PARKING DURING STREET MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES:
To facilitate street maintenance activities within the city (i.e., including,
but not limited to, street sweeping, leaf pick up and nonemergency utility
repairs) the director of public works or his designee shall post "no parking"
signs in the areas selected for street maintenance activities at least twelve
(12) hours prior to any activity taking place. The director of public works
shall also have the authority to post exceptions to parking restrictions to
facilitate maintenance activities. (Ord. M-62-98, 9-21-1998)
7-3-13: BOOKMOBILE RESERVED PARKING:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, the director of public works
shall erect signs indicating reserved parking for the bookmobile of the Des
Plaines library upon the following streets:
Along the west side of White Street between Van Buren Avenue and Whitcomb
Avenue. (Ord. T-11-92, 7-6-1992; amd. Ord. M-59-93, 12-6-1993)
Along the south side of Howard Avenue at Koehler Drive.
Along the north side of Fletcher Drive between Westgate Road and Cumberland
Parkway.
Along the north side of Windsor Drive between Pennsylvania Avenue and Jeffrey
Lane.
Along the south side of the gravel drive north of Eaton park and east of Craig
Drive. (Ord. T-11-92, 7-6-1992)
7-3-14: HANDICAPPED AND DISABLED RESTRICTED PARKING:
   A.   Handicapped And Disabled Parking:
      1.   Parking Zone Restrictions: It shall be unlawful for any person
except a handicapped person or a person transporting a handicapped person with
limited mobility to park a motor vehicle in any public parking lot area posted
"No Parking Except Handicapped Persons" or bearing the international symbol
indicating a handicapped parking restriction.
      2.   Exemptions: The exemptions from certain parking limitations provided
for handicapped persons by section 5/11-1301.1 of the Illinois vehicle code 1
shall be extended to handicapped persons possessing and displaying a
registration identification card issued by township governments of the
northwest municipal conference area. (Ord. T-3-79, 1-15-1979)
   B.   Special Parking Provisions: It is the intention of this chapter to
restrict designated parking places on municipally owned or operated properties
and on residential streets for the exclusive use of handicapped/disabled
persons as hereinafter defined.
   C.   Reserved Parking On Municipal Properties: The city's license officer
shall designate parking places on municipally owned or operated properties for
the exclusive use of persons to whom a current handicapped or disabled
veteran's license plate has been issued by the state of Illinois, or to whom a
handicapped parking identification card has been issued by a township.
   D.   Reserved Parking On Residential Streets:
      1.   The provisions for reserved residential street parking shall not be
applicable to any household or any person therein if any member thereof owns,
rents or has regular use of private driveways, carports or garages that give
convenient access to the dwelling of the handicapped/disabled person.
      2.   Any resident of the city may apply for a determination by the
license officer that he possesses the necessary ambulatory disability
qualifications for special restricted parking, and any member of such person's
household may make application if his vehicle constitutes the primary mode of
transportation for the handicapped/disabled person. Upon determination by the
license officer that the individual qualifies for restricted parking and upon
payment of the fee of thirty dollars ($30.00) for installation, the city shall
install two (2) signs, twenty five feet (25') apart, on a residential street at
the point determined to be most accessible to the handicapped person's dwelling
which will designate the space between the signs as reserved for the sole use
of the handicapped/disabled person. The application shall contain such
information as the license officer may require to make a determination. The
application for reserved residential street parking shall be automatically
approved for those persons to whom disabled veteran or handicapped license
plates have been issued currently by the state of Illinois.
      3.   The sole use privilege on the given residential street will be
renewed each year by reapplication and by payment of an annual renewal fee of
twenty dollars ($20.00) due on the anniversary of installation. If a renewal is
not requested, or the annual fee not paid thirty one (31) days after it becomes
due, the signs shall be removed.
   E.   Unqualified Vehicle Parking:
      1.   Any unqualified vehicle parked in a parking place on a residential
street which is reserved for handicapped/disabled parking shall be considered
to be illegally parked.
      2.   Any vehicle parked on city owned or operated properties designated
as reserved for handicapped/disabled only, which does not have a current
Illinois license plate for handicapped persons or disabled veterans or which
does not display evidence of a permit issued under this section, shall be
considered illegally parked. (Ord. M-25-82, 3-15-1982)
   F.   Penalty: The owner of any vehicle illegally parked as set forth above
shall upon conviction, be assessed a fine of two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) for each offense. (Ord. T-2-09, 5-4-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS.
7-3-15: RESTRICTED RESIDENT PARKING DISTRICT; MAINE WEST HIGH SCHOOL AREA:
   A.   Purpose Of Restricted Resident Parking District:
      1.   Maine West High School immediately abuts a residential district of
the city of Des Plaines.
      2.   The high school charges a fee to students for parking in the school
lot, resulting in students parking throughout the neighborhood north of the
school, instead of in the school parking lot.
      3.   The increase in flow of traffic and usage of the streets in the
abutting residential district constitutes a hazard to the health, safety and
welfare of the residents of this abutting residential district.
   B.   Definition Of Encompassed Area, Resident Parking District: The area
bounded by Forest Avenue at the north; Fourth Avenue at the east; Oakton Street
at the south; and Wolf Road at the west.
   C.   Resident Parking Only, Eight O'Clock A.M. To Ten O'Clock A.M. On
Weekdays; Resident District:
      1.   The following streets shall be "resident parking only, 8:00 A.M. to
10:00 A.M. weekdays" (within the above mentioned district, when signs are
erected giving notice thereof):
 
  Street         Location
 Cindy Lane     West side from Lincoln Avenue to Forest Avenue
 Fifth Avenue   East and west sides from Lincoln Avenue to Forest Avenue
 Fourth Avenue  East and west sides from Lincoln Avenue to Forest Avenue
 Lincoln Avenue North side from Fifth Avenue to Fourth Avenue
 Lincoln Avenue South side from Wolf Road to Fifth Avenue
 Sixth Avenue   East side from Lincoln Avenue to Forest Avenue
      2.   Stickers will not be issued for this district. Residency shall be
determined based upon registration of the parked vehicles.
      3.   If the resident has a guest that needs to use the on street parking
during the restricted hours, the resident shall contact the police department
and specify the license plates of additional guest vehicle(s). Permission to
park on the street during the restricted time shall not exempt the guest from
the observance of any other traffic or parking regulations.
      4.   Service or delivery vehicles whose operators are doing business with
residents of the district are exempted from this parking restriction. (Ord. T-
7-09, 7-20-2009)
CHAPTER 4
MISCELLANEOUS DRIVING RULES
SECTION:
7-4-1: Stop When Traffic Obstructed
7-4-2: Parades And Processions
7-4-3: Turning And Backing Movements
7-4-4: Driving On Sidewalks Or Parkways
7-4-5: Use Of Coasters, Roller Skates, Similar Devices
7-4-6: Unlawful Riding On Vehicles
7-4-7: Vehicles Not Driven On Closed Streets
7-4-8: Traffic Applicable To Animals
7-4-9: Traffic Not To Be Obstructed
7-4-10: Slow Moving Vehicles
7-4-11: Towing Disabled Vehicles
7-4-12: Speed Restrictions
7-4-13: Persons Under Influence Of Intoxicating Liquors Or Narcotic Drugs
7-4-14: Reckless Driving
7-4-15: Boarding Or Alighting From Vehicles
7-4-16: Curve Warning Signs With Advisory Speeds
7-4-17: Cruising
7-4-18: Load Limits On Certain Streets
7-4-1: STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED:
No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he is operating without obstructing the passage of
other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control signal
indication to proceed. (Ord. 2-20-39)
7-4-2: PARADES AND PROCESSIONS:
   A.   Driving Through Processions: No driver of a vehicle or motorman of a
streetcar shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral or other
authorized procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles are
conspicuously designated as required in this title. This provision shall not
apply at intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic control signals
or police officers.
   B.   Permits For Parades And Processions: No funeral, procession, or parade
containing two hundred (200) or more persons or fifty (50) or more vehicles,
excepting the forces of the United States army or navy, the military forces of
this state, and the forces of the police and fire departments, shall occupy,
march, or proceed along any street except in accordance with a permit issued by
the city council and such other regulations as are set forth herein which may
apply.
   C.   Funeral And Other Processions:
      1.   A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall be identified
as such by a display upon the outside of each vehicle of a pennant, windshield
poster or other legible identifying device.
      2.   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to
the right hand edge of the roadway as practical and follow the vehicle ahead as
close as is practical and safe. (2- 20-39)
7-4-3: TURNING AND BACKING MOVEMENTS:
   A.   General:
      1.   Turning Around: The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such
vehicle to the left upon any street in a business district or within any
intersection thereof for the purpose of parking along a curb or for the purpose
of proceeding in the opposite direction.
      2.   Backing: The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same into an
intersection or over a crosswalk and shall not in any event or at any place
back a vehicle unless such movement can be made in safety. (2-20-39)
   B.   Obedience To No Turn Signs And Turning Markers: Whenever authorized
signs are erected indicating that no right, left, or "U" turn is permitted, no
driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of any such sign, and when
authorized marks, buttons, or other indications are placed within an
intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning thereat,
no driver or vehicle shall disobey the directions of such indications: (Ord. T-
8-01, 10-15-2001)
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to make a left turn with a
vehicle from industrial Maple Street to residential Maple Street.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to turn any vehicle from
residential Maple Street onto industrial Maple Street.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to turn any vehicle left from
Seegers Road onto Harvey Avenue.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to turn any vehicle left from
Northwest Highway into Cumberland parking lot 7N, and it shall also be unlawful
for any person to turn any vehicle left out of said parking lot onto Northwest
Highway.
      5.   It shall be unlawful for any person to make a U-turn on Northwest
Highway, in either direction, between Mount Prospect Road and Western Avenue.
      6.   It shall be unlawful for any person to turn any vehicle right from
Van Buren Street onto River Road during the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M. to six o'clock (6:00)
P.M., except Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.
      7.   It shall be unlawful for any person to make a U-turn eastbound on
Golf Road across from the property at 725 Golf Road.
      8.   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to make a right hand turn, when
children are present, at the following intersections:
   Lee/Mannheim Road and Prospect Avenue
   Oakton Street and White Street
   Touhy Avenue and Maple Street
   Wolf Road and Algonquin Road
   Wolf Road and Rand Road
(Ord. T-11-92, 7-6-1992)
      9.   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to make a right hand turn, when
pedestrians are present, at the following intersections:
Prairie Avenue and Lee Street (westbound to northbound only)
(Ord. T-1-09, 3-2-2009)
      10.   It shall be unlawful for northbound traffic on Joseph J. Schwab
Road to make a left hand turn onto Dempster/Miner Street.
      11.   It shall be unlawful for westbound traffic on Dempster/Miner Street
to make a left hand turn onto Joseph J. Schwab Road.
      12.   It shall be unlawful for eastbound traffic on Ellinwood Street to
make a left hand turn north onto River Road, as posted signs so indicate.
      13.   It shall be unlawful for northbound traffic on River Road to make a
left hand turn west onto Ellinwood Street as indicated by posted signs. (Ord.
T-11-92, 7-6-1992)
      14.   It shall be unlawful for eastbound traffic on Algonquin Road to
make a left hand turn north onto Des Plaines River Road during the hours of
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00)
P.M. to six o'clock (6:00) P.M.
      15.   It shall be unlawful for any person to turn any vehicle left from
southbound Laurel Avenue onto Northwest Highway. (Ord. T-8-01, 10-15-2001)
      16.   It shall be unlawful for southbound and northbound traffic on Fifth
Avenue to make a left hand turn onto Rand Road during the hours of seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M. to
six o'clock (6:00) P.M., except Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. (Ord. T-4-09,
5-4-2009)
      17.   It shall be unlawful for northbound traffic on Mary Street to make
a left hand turn west onto Golf Road. (Ord. T-17-04, 11-15-2004)
      18.   It shall be unlawful for southbound traffic on Birch Street to make
a left hand turn east onto Touhy Avenue during the hours of seven thirty
o'clock (7:30) A.M. to eight thirty o'clock (8:30) A.M. and two thirty o'clock
(2:30) P.M. to three thirty o'clock (3:30) P.M. (Ord. T-18-04, 11-1-2004)
      19.   It shall be unlawful to make a right hand turn on red for westbound
traffic on Algonquin Road at Des Plaines River Road.
      20.   It shall be unlawful to make a right hand turn on red, when
pedestrians are present, for southbound traffic on Sixth Avenue at Golf Road.
(Ord. T-4-09, 5-4-2009)
7-4-4: DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS OR PARKWAYS:
No driver of any vehicle shall drive such vehicle within any sidewalk or
parkway area except at a permanent or temporary driveway. (2-20-39)
7-4-5: USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES, SIMILAR DEVICES:
   A.   No person upon roller skates, rollerblades, in-line skates, and similar
devices or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy vehicle, or similar
device, shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a street on a
crosswalk.
   B.   No person shall ride in/upon roller skates, skateboards, rollerblades,
in-line skates, coasters, toy vehicles, or similar devices upon any public
street, sidewalk, curb, alley, parking garage, or parking lot located in the
central business district as identified on the city official zoning map. (Ord.
M-42-99, 9-7-1999)
   C.   No person shall use, operate or be in control of a motorized skateboard
on a public or private street, parking lot, sidewalk, bike path or other area
open to the public. Driving a motorized skateboard may be permitted on private
property with the permission of the property owner, or in public or quasipublic
areas where signs are posted permitting the motorized skateboard.
   D.   Any person found in violation of this section shall be fined not less
than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than ten dollars ($10.00) for each
violation. (Ord. T-5-01, 10-15-2001)
7-4-6: UNLAWFUL RIDING ON VEHICLES:
No person shall ride on any vehicle or streetcar on any portion thereof not
designed or intended for the use of passengers, except that this provision
shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary performance of his duty
or to persons riding within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise or
materials. (2-20-39)
7-4-7: VEHICLES NOT DRIVEN ON CLOSED STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate a vehicle, except an
authorized emergency vehicle while engaged in emergency duty, upon any street
or highway within the city which is officially closed to traffic and which is
plainly marked or indicated as such by officially erected barricades, signs, or
signals or other traffic control device or legend. (2-20-39)
7-4-8: TRAFFIC APPLICABLE TO ANIMALS:
   A.   Unattended: No person shall leave any horse or other draft animal
unattended in any street without having securely fastened such animal.
   B.   Frightened Horses: Any operator of a vehicle shall, upon approaching a
frightened horse, bring his vehicle to a stop and remain stationary until the
horse has passed. (2-20-39)
7-4-9: TRAFFIC NOT TO BE OBSTRUCTED:
No vehicle, streetcar or interurban train or car shall be operated or allowed
to remain upon any street in such a manner as to form an unreasonable
obstruction to traffic thereon. (5-21-51; amd. 11-21-60)
7-4-10: SLOW MOVING VEHICLES:
Slow moving vehicles and all vehicles designed and used for the pulling or
hauling freight and all vehicles designed and used for the carrying of more
than seven (7) passengers and all bicycles, must be operated as closely to the
right hand side of the roadway as conditions of traffic permit. (5-21-51; amd.
11-21-60)
7-4-11: TOWING DISABLED VEHICLES:
   A.   Any disabled vehicle being towed upon any street during the time
between sunset and sunrise shall have a red light attached to the front of the
disabled vehicle so as to be visible to anyone approaching such vehicle from
either side. Such red light shall be in addition to any other light required to
be carried by vehicles under the laws of this state.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to tow any motor vehicle upon any street if the
connection is so arranged that the towing vehicle and the vehicle being towed
are separated by more than eight feet (8') or less than four feet (4').
   C.   It shall be unlawful to tow any vehicle at a rate of speed in excess of
fifteen (15) miles per hour. (5-21-51; amd. 11-21-60)
7-4-12: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Speed Twenty Five Miles Per Hour: No person shall drive a vehicle upon
any local street, boulevard or highway under the jurisdiction of the city at a
speed greater than twenty five (25) miles per hour, except as hereinafter
provided.
   B.   Signs: When official signs are erected at a local intersection or upon
the approaches thereto or along local streets or boulevards or along portions
of such local streets or boulevards, giving notice of a lesser or greater speed
respectively than provided for in subsection A of this section, no person shall
drive a vehicle through such a local intersection or along such local streets
or boulevards or portions of such local streets or boulevards at a speed
greater than is indicated on the signs.
   C.   Twenty Mile Per Hour Streets: It shall be unlawful to operate any
vehicle in excess of twenty (20) miles per hour on the following streets or
portions thereof:
Bellaire Avenue from Ballard Road to University Street
Church Street from Bellaire Avenue to Potter Road
Dempster/Thacker Street from Lee Street to River Road
Fifth Avenue from Seegers Road to Golf Road
Fourth Avenue from Seegers Road to Golf Road
Maple Street from Touhy Avenue to Howard Avenue
Mason Lane from Busse Highway to Dempster Street
Oak Street from Brown Street to Harding Avenue
Prairie Avenue from Lyman Avenue to Potter Road
Second Avenue from Algonquin Road to Thacker Street
Seegers Road from Wiebolt Drive to Wolf Road
Sixth Avenue from Seegers Road to Golf Road
   D.   Thirty Five Mile Per Hour Streets: It shall be unlawful to operate any
vehicle in excess of thirty five (35) miles per hour on the following streets
or portions thereof:
Howard Avenue from Wolf Road to Mount Prospect Road
   E.   School Zone: It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in excess of
twenty (20) miles per hour in any designated school zone, during school hours
when children are present, and signs are posted.
   F.   Speed In Alleys: It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in or upon
any alley within the city at a speed in excess of ten (10) miles per hour.
(Ord. T-14-97, 11-17-1997)
7-4-13: PERSONS UNDER INFLUENCE OF INTOXICATING LIQUORS OR NARCOTIC DRUGS:
It shall be unlawful and punishable as provided by this section for any person
who is an habitual user of narcotic drugs or any person who is under the
influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotic drugs to drive any vehicle within
the city. Every person who is convicted of a violation of this section shall be
punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. (Ord. T-22-65, 10-18-1965)
7-4-14: RECKLESS DRIVING:
Any person who drives any vehicle with a wilful or a wanton disregard for the
safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless driving. (2-20-39)
7-4-15: BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES:
No person shall board or alight from any streetcar or vehicle while such
streetcar or vehicle is in motion. (2-20-39)
7-4-16: CURVE WARNING SIGNS WITH ADVISORY SPEEDS:
The commissioner of public works is hereby authorized to place and maintain
appropriate "curve" warning signs with advisory speed plates, as directed by
the city council, in accordance with the manual on uniform traffic control
devices, as follows:
Erect "curve" warning signs (with 15 mile per hour advisory speed plates) for
both directions on Carol Lane. (Ord. T-11-92, 7-6-1992)
7-4-17: CRUISING:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to protect the public health,
safety and welfare of the citizens of the city from conduct which includes, but
is not limited to, dangerous traffic congestion, excessive noise and pollution
resulting from cruising, and to ensure sufficient access for emergency and
police vehicles, by reasonable time, place and manner restrictions consistent
with substantive due process of law.
   B.   Definitions: The following definitions shall apply in the
administration and enforcement of this section:
    CRUISING: Driving a motor vehicle, upon a public street or upon private
property past a traffic control point as designated by the Des Plaines police
department, more than twice in any one hour period.
   CRUISING DESIGNATED AREA: All municipal parking lots owned by the city of
Des Plaines, which include the following:
Jewel lot                655 S. Graceland Avenue
River-Miner lot          1575 E. Miner Street
Old Post Office lot      1332 E. Webford Avenue
North School lot         550 S. River Road
Park Place lot           1555 E. Park Place
North Cumberland depot   475 E. Northwest Highway
South Cumberland depot   420 E. Golf Road
Miner and Graceland west 1351 E. Miner Street
Miner and Graceland east 1425 E. Miner Street
Ellinwood lot            1550 E. Ellinwood Street
Civic Center lot         1455 E. Jefferson Street
Municipal garage         606 Lee
Municipal garage         1444 Prairie
 
These designated areas shall be clearly marked with permanent fixed signs
advising the public that the area is subject to regulation under this section.
    PRIVATE PROPERTY: An area of public access to privately owned property
where an enforcement agreement is in effect by and between the owner of the
property and the city, under 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1-7 and 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-209 and 5/11-209.1, or home rule powers of the
city.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL POINT: A clearly identified reference point within a
designated area upon a public street or upon private property as determined and
marked time to time by the Des Plaines police department. (Ord. M-38-95, 6-19-
1995; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Offense: No person shall engage in "cruising" as defined herein.
   D.   Exclusions: This section shall not apply to any municipal, emergency,
police, fire, ambulance or other governmental vehicles when same is being
operated in an official capacity. In addition, this section shall not apply to
any duly licensed public transportation vehicle nor to any vehicle utilized for
business and/or commercial purposes. (Ord. M-38-95, 6-19-1995)
   E.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be subject to a fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor
more than the maximum fine provided for in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. M-38-95, 6-19-1995; amd. 2002 Code)
7-4-18: LOAD LIMITS ON CERTAIN STREETS:
   A.   Enforcement:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to be in control of, to drive,
to park, or to move on, upon or across or for the owner to cause or knowingly
permit to be parked, to be driven, or to be moved upon or across, any street or
highway under the jurisdiction of this city, any vehicle or combination of
vehicles exceeding the size and weight limitations stated in 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/15-102 (width), 5/15-103 (height), and 5/15-111 (weight).
      2.   Size and weight limitations while operating on city streets shall
not apply to fire apparatus or equipment for garbage, snow or ice removal
operations owned or operated by or for any governmental body or to implements
of husbandry temporarily operated or towed in a combination in the furtherance
of a farm or agricultural endeavor or to public passenger vehicles of common
carriers operating under a certificate of necessity and convenience issued by
the Illinois commerce commission and to any vehicle or combination of vehicles
operating under the terms of a valid oversize and/or dimension permit issued by
this city.
      3.   In addition to the size and weight restrictions contained in
subsection A1 of this section, the city may further restrict size and weight
limitations by ordinance pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-316.
Such further restrictions shall be effective once said ordinance is passed and
signs containing said restrictions are posted. Thereafter, it shall be unlawful
to operate any vehicle or combination of vehicles in violation of such size or
weight restrictions.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be
operated any vehicle on the streets of this city in violation of the provisions
of this section. Members of the city's police force shall see to the
enforcement of this section by issuing citations and/or arresting violators.
(Ord. T-8-95, 8-21-1995)
      5.   The owner and operator of any vehicle that violates any provision of
this section, each shall be subject to a fine as provided in the general
penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. Each day that a violation is found to
exist shall constitute a separate violation. (Ord. T-8-95, 8-21-1995; amd. 2002
Code)
   B.   Load Limitations:
      1.   Eighty Thousand Pounds Maximum Weight: The following streets or
parts thereof are designated as eighty thousand (80,000) pounds gross vehicle
weight (GVW) maximum load limitation for "class II highway vehicles", as
defined in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-111(f):
Street From To
Street           From                           To
                                               
Armstrong Road                                  
Birchwood Avenue Frontage Road                  Maple Street
Bradrock Drive                                  
Clearwater Drive                                
Forest Avenue    East of Lee/Mannheim Road      Railroad tracks
Frontage Road                                   
Howard Avenue    West of Mt. Prospect Road       
Jarvis Avenue    West of Mt. Prospect Road       
                 and west of Wolf Road
Marshall Drive   Wille Road                     Oakton Street
Mary Street                                     
Orchard Place    Higgins Road                   Toll Road
Oxford Road      1 block north of Jarvis Avenue  
Rawls Road                                      
Redeker Road                                    
Santa Rosa Drive                                
Seegers Road     Rand Road                      Broadway
Sherwin Avenue   Frontage Road                  Maple Street
Third Avenue     Rand Road                      North edge of in-
                                                dustrial district
Western Avenue                                  
Wiebolt Avenue                                  
Wille Road                                      
Winthrop Drive                                  
 
      2.   Seventy Three Thousand Two Hundred Eighty Pounds Weight Limit: The
following streets shall be classified as nondesignated highways and shall have
a seventy three thousand two hundred eighty (73,280) pounds' gross vehicle
weight (GVW) weight limitation as defined in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
15-111(a) and (b):
Street From To
Street         From                          To
                                            
Broadway                                     
Executive Way                                
First Avenue   Thacker Street                North Avenue
Maple Street   1 block north of Touhy Avenue  
                                             West property line
North Avenue   First Avenue                  of 940 North
                                             Avenue
Oakton Place                                 
Pearson Avenue Prairie Avenue                River Road
Prairie Avenue Graceland Avenue              River Road
State Street                                 
Thacker Street Wolf Road                     River Road
Times Drive                                  
                                             163.5 ft. south of
Webster Lane   Oakton Street                 south line of
                                             Oakton Street
 
   (Ord. T-8-95, 8-21-1995)
   C.   Registered And Gross Weight Not To Exceed Eight Thousand Pounds: All
city streets, except as provided for in subsection B of this section, shall
have the following weight restrictions:
      1.   Registered gross weight not to exceed eight thousand (8,000) pounds'
gross vehicle weight (GVW) (nothing above a B plate).
      2.   Gross weight, including load, not to exceed eight thousand (8,000)
pounds' gross vehicle weight (GVW).
However, any vehicle exceeding the eight thousand (8,000) pound gross vehicle
weight (GVW) weight limitations required to make a delivery or pick up at a
place of residence or business along said streets may do so, but said vehicle
shall move along said street from the nearest point of entry to the place of
pick up or delivery and shall leave said street at the intersecting street
nearest said point of delivery or pick up.
   D.   Special Permits For Overload Trucks: When, in his judgment an emergency
exists, the director of finance and administrative services (or his designee)
may, in his discretion, issue a special permit authorizing the applicant to
operate or move a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight of
vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified in the laws of the state of
Illinois or otherwise not in conformity with the provisions of this section,
upon any street or highway under the jurisdiction of the city. The application
shall be in writing and shall specifically describe the vehicle or vehicles and
load to be operated or moved and the particular streets or highways for which
the permit to operate is requested. The application shall also specify if the
permit is requested for a single trip or for continuous operation.
The director of finance and administrative services, or his designee, is
authorized to issue or withhold such permit at his discretion; or, if such
permit is issued, to limit the number of trips, or to establish seasonal or
other time limitations within which the vehicle described may be in operation
on the streets or highways indicated, or otherwise to limit or prescribe
conditions of operation of such vehicle or vehicles, when necessary to assure
against undue damage to the road foundations, surfaces or structures, and may
require such undertaking or security as may be deemed necessary to compensate
for any injury to any roadway or road structure.
A permit for a single trip shall be valid for thirty (30) days following its
issuance, and the fee for such a permit shall be thirty five dollars ($35.00).
A round trip permit shall be seventy dollars ($70.00). A multiple routing
permit shall be valid for one hundred (100) days and the fee for such a permit
will be one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). A permit for continuous operation
for one year shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00).
Every permit issued under the provisions of this section shall be carried in
the vehicle or combination of vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to
inspection by any police officer. (Ord. T-6-05, 4-18-2005)
CHAPTER 5
ONE-WAY, STOP AND YIELD STREETS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Through Streets
7-5-2: One-Way Streets
7-5-3: One-Way Alleys
7-5-4: Stop Streets
7-5-5: Yield Right Of Way
7-5-6: Pedestrian Crosswalks
7-5-1: THROUGH STREETS:
   A.   Through Traffic Streets:
Busse Highway    Miner Street to city limits.
Center Street    Ellinwood Street to Ashland Avenue.
Graceland Avenue Miner Street to Rand Road.
                 Prairie Avenue to Miner Street.
Harding Avenue   Lee Street to Western Avenue.
Keeney Avenue    Lee Street to Des Plaines Avenue.
Lee Street       Miner Street to Des Plaines Avenue.
                 Touhy Avenue to Ellinwood Street.
Mannheim Road    Touhy Avenue to Lee Street.
Miner Street     Des Plaines Avenue to Rand Road.
                 Lee Street to Des Plaines Avenue.
Oakton Street    Mannheim Road to Des Plaines Avenue.
Pearson Street   Miner Street to Des Plaines Avenue.
                 Thacker Street to Miner Street.
Prairie Avenue   Lee Street west to Wolf Road.
Thacker Street   Wolf Road to Lee Street.
                 Howard Avenue to Oakton Street.
White Street     Keeney Avenue to Ashland Avenue.
                 Oakton Street to Keeney Avenue.
 
(Ord., 9-4-1951; amd. Ord. T-4-74, 3-4-1974)
   B.   No Through Traffic Streets:
Alley between Perry Street and Jefferson From Graceland Avenue.
Street, west of Graceland Avenue
Cordial Drive                            From Elmhurst Road.
                                         Elmhurst Road to Marshall Drive.
Cranbrook Street                         From Mount Prospect Road.
Dale Street                              From Touhy Avenue.
Forest Avenue                            From Wolf Road.
Greco Street                             From Touhy Avenue.
Lincoln Avenue                           Elmhurst Road to Short Terrace.
Maple Street                             From Touhy Avenue.
                                         Touhy Avenue to Pratt Avenue.
Marshall Drive                           From Oakton Street.
                                         Oakton Street to Cordial Drive.
Mason Lane                               Busse Highway to Dempster Street.
Oxford Road                              From Oakton Street.
Patton Drive                             From Devon Avenue.
                                         Devon Avenue to Craig Drive.
Pratt Avenue                             From Mannheim Road.
                                         Mannheim Road to Rusty Drive.
Ridge Lane                               Oakton Street to Lincoln Avenue.
Rusty Drive                              From Touhy Avenue.
Scott Street                             From Touhy Avenue.
Short Terrace                            Oakton Street to Lincoln Avenue.
Stillwell Drive                          From Devon Avenue.
                                         Devon Avenue to Craig Drive.
Warrington Road                          North of Thacker Street.
Westmere Road                            From Mount Prospect Road.
Wilkins Drive                            From Golf Road.
 
(Ord. T-4-74, 3-4-1974; amd. Ord. T-20-75, 10-20-1975; Ord. T-1-76, 1-5-1976;
Ord. T-17-84, 7-2-1984; Ord. T-3-85, 3-4-1985; Ord. T-10-02, 11-4-2002; Ord. T-
14-04, 7-19-2004; Ord. T-12-05, 12-19-2005; Ord. T-5-09, 5-4-2009)
7-5-2: ONE-WAY STREETS:
Those streets and parts of streets described in this section are hereby
declared to be one-way streets for the purpose of this section:
Street Direction Of Traffic
Street                                             Direction Of Traffic
Alles Street from Brown Street to Harding Avenue    Northerly
Arnold Court from Dorothy Drive to Florian Drive    Northerly
Ashland Avenue from White Street to Center Street   Westerly
Bennett Place, from the intersection of the alley   Easterly
west of River Road to Locust
Brown Street from Oak to Alles                      Easterly
Campbell Avenue from White Street to Center Street  Westerly
Evergreen Street, from Laurel to Graceland          Easterly
First Avenue, from Lee to Oakwood                   Southerly
Good Avenue from Church to Emerson                  Northerly
Graceland Avenue, from Oakwood to Jefferson         Southwesterly
Graceland Avenue to the alley on Oakwood Avenue     Easterly
Henry Avenue, from Center Street to White Street    Easterly
Lee Street, from Jefferson to First Avenue          Northeasterly
Linden Street, from Prospect to Oakton              Southerly
Oak Street, entire length                           Southerly
Oakwood Avenue from White Street to Center Street   Easterly
Spruce Street from Prospect Avenue to Everett       Northerly
Avenue, Sundays only
Walnut Street from White Street to Center Street    Westerly
Willow Street, from Harding to Laurel               Westerly
 
(10-17-55; amd. 2-17-58; 6-19-61; 2-5-62; 4-16-62; 6-2-62; 8-62; Ord. T-14-65,
4-26-1965; Ord. T-22-67, 12-18-1967; Ord. T-11-68, 8-5-1968; Ord. T-1-69, 1-20-
1969; Ord. T-1-70, 1-13-1970; Ord. T-15-88, 8-1-1988; Ord. T-1-89, 2-6-1989;
Ord. T-1-92, 1-20-1992; Ord. T-13-92, 7-6-1992; Ord. T-13-02, 12-16-2002; Ord.
T-2-07, 1-3-2007)
7-5-3: ONE-WAY ALLEYS:
Those alleys and parts of alleys described in this section are hereby declared
to be one-way alleys for the purpose of this section, and it shall be unlawful
for any vehicle to travel thereon except in the direction indicated below:
 
Alley                                                 Direction Of Traffic
The alley situated between Miner Street and Jefferson  Westerly
Street, from Pearson Street to Lee Street
 
(Ord. T-14-68, 9-16-1968; amd. Ord. T-24-74, 10-21-1974; Ord. T-1-75, 1-6-1975;
Ord. T-3-76, 4-19-1976; Ord. T-5-76, 6-21-1976)
7-5-4: STOP STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for a vehicle traveling on a stop street to enter a
through street without first coming to a complete stop and yielding the right
of way to any traffic moving on the through street.
   A.   One-Way Stop Streets: The streets listed in this subsection in column A
are designated one-way stop streets. It shall be unlawful for any person
driving a vehicle on a stop street listed in column A to enter a through street
listed in column B without first coming to a complete stop and yielding the
right of way to any traffic moving on the through street listed in column B:
Column A    Column B
Stop Street Through Street
Column A                          Column B
Stop Street                       Through Street
Albany Lane (southbound)          Rand Road
Alfini Drive (eastbound)          Wolf Road
Alles Street (southbound)         Perry Street
Andrea Lane (northbound)          Algonquin Road
Apple Creek Lane (southbound)     Busse Highway
Ashland Avenue (eastbound)        River Road
Ashland Avenue (westbound)        Cora Street
Beau Court (eastbound)            Beau Drive
Beau Drive (north & southbound)   Elmdale condominiums
                                  north entrance
Beau Drive (northbound)           Golf Road
Bell Drive (southbound)           Millers Road
Bellaire Avenue (southbound)      Ballard Road
Bennett Place, east-west alley    North-south alley east
north of                          of Locust Street
                                  (north of Bennett)
Berkshire Lane (eastbound)        Wolf Road
Berkshire Lane (westbound)        Wolf Road
Berry Lane (westbound)            River Road
Birch Street (northbound)         Howard Avenue
Birch Street (northbound)         Touhy Avenue
Birchwood Avenue (eastbound)      Maple Street
Birchwood Avenue (westbound)      Frontage Road
Birchwood Avenue (westbound)      Wolf Road
Bittersweet Court (northbound)    Oakton Street
Bittersweet Court (southbound)    Mannheim Road
Bradrock Drive (eastbound)        Winthrop Drive
Bradrock Drive (westbound)        Mount Prospect Road
Broadway Avenue (northbound)      Golf Road
Broadway Avenue (southbound)      Northwest Highway
Brown Street (eastbound)          Lee Street
Busse Highway (northbound)        Miner Street
Cambridge Road (southbound)       Northwest Highway
Campbell Avenue (eastbound)       River Road
Carlow Drive (southbound)         Central Road
Carol Lane (southbound)           Forest Avenue
Cedar Court (eastbound)           River Road
Cedar Street (northbound)         Howard Avenue
Cedar Street (northbound)         Jarvis Avenue
Cedar Street (southbound)         Touhy Avenue
Center Street (southbound)        Oakton Street
Chase Avenue (eastbound)          River Road
Chestnut Street (northbound)      Prospect Avenue
Church Street (eastbound)         Lyman Avenue
Church Street (eastbound)         Potter Road
Circle Street (eastbound)         Illinois Avenue
Citadel Court (southbound)        Thacker Street
Clark Lane (northbound)           Thacker Street
Clark Lane (southbound)           Algonquin Road
Clayton Lane (northbound)         Central Road
Clearwater Drive (northbound)     Howard Avenue
Cora Street (southbound)          Everett Avenue
Cordial Drive (westbound)         Elmhurst Road
Cornell Avenue (southbound)       State Street
Craig Drive (northbound)          David Drive
Cranbrook Drive (westbound)       Mount Prospect Road
Cumberland Parkway                Washington Street
Dale Street (northbound)          Touhy Avenue
Dale Street (southbound)          Estes Avenue
Danbury Lane (northbound)         Roxbury Lane
David Drive (eastbound)           Rusty Drive
Dawn Court (southbound)           Ballard Road
Denver Drive (eastbound)          Pennsylvania Avenue
Devonshire Drive (westbound)      Elmhurst Road
Doreen Drive (northbound)         Algonquin Road
Douglas Avenue (northbound)       Howard Avenue
Dover Drive (eastbound)           Miami Lane
Dover Drive (eastbound)           Mount Prospect Road
Dover Drive (westbound)           Danbury Lane
Drake Lane (eastbound)            Eighth Avenue
Dulles Road (westbound)           Elmhurst Road
Earl Avenue (northbound)          Algonquin Road
Eastview Drive (northbound)       Howard Avenue
Eastview Drive (southbound)       Touhy Avenue
Easy Street (southbound)          Millers Road
Eighth Avenue (southbound)        Golf Road
Ellinwood Street (eastbound)      River Road
Ellinwood Street (westbound)      Graceland Avenue
Emerson Street (eastbound)        Potter Road
Everett Avenue (eastbound)        Dexter Lane
Everett Avenue (eastbound)        Mannheim Road
Everett Avenue (eastbound)        River Road
Everett Lane (eastbound)          Lee Street
Evergreen Avenue (westbound)      Graceland Avenue
Executive Way (southbound)        Oakton Street
Fargo Avenue (eastbound)          River Road
Fargo Avenue (westbound)          Lee Street
Farthing Lane (southbound)        Millers Road
Farwell Avenue (westbound)        Maple Street
Fifth Avenue (southbound)         Oakton Street
Fifth Avenue (southbound)         Rand Road
Fifth Avenue (southbound)         Seegers Road
Fifth Avenue (southbound)         Thacker Street
Fifth Court (eastbound)           Fourth Avenue
Fifth Court (westbound)           Fifth Avenue
Figard Lane (northbound)          Millers Road
Fletcher Drive (westbound)        Mount Prospect Road
Forest Avenue (eastbound)         Lee Street
Forest Avenue (eastbound)         River Road
Forest Avenue (westbound)         Oxford Road
Fourth Avenue (northbound)        Golf Road
Fourth Avenue (southbound)        Seegers Road
Fourth Avenue (southbound)        Thacker Street
Fremont Avenue (westbound)        Mount Prospect Road
Garland Place (northbound)        Rand Road
Garland Place (southbound)        Miner Street
Golf Road (westbound)             Wolf Road
Good Avenue (southbound)          Ballard Road
Graceland Avenue (northbound)     Rand Road
Greco Avenue (northbound)         Touhy Avenue
Greco Avenue (southbound)         Pratt Avenue
Greenview Avenue (eastbound)      First Avenue
Gregory Street (eastbound)        River Road
Grove Avenue (southbound)         Rand Road
Harding Avenue (eastbound)        Lee Street
Harvard Street (westbound)        Mount Prospect Road
Harvey Avenue (westbound)         Cumberland Parkway
Hawthorne Lane (southbound)       Rand Road
Henry Avenue (east & westbound)   White Street
Henry Avenue (eastbound)          Cora Street
Henry Avenue (eastbound)          River Road
Hewitt Drive (southbound)         Algonquin Road
Hickory Street (southbound)       Touhy Avenue
Highland Drive (westbound)        Lee Street
Hills Avenue (westbound)          River Road
Hoffman Parkway (westbound)       Wolf Road
Holiday Lane (westbound)          Elmhurst Road
Howard Avenue (eastbound)         Mannheim Road
Howard Avenue (eastbound)         River Road
Howard Avenue (westbound)         Mount Prospect Road
Illinois Street (northbound)      Oakton Street
Jeannette Street (northbound)     Thacker Street
Jeannette Street (southbound)     Algonquin Road
Jefferson Street (eastbound)      Graceland Avenue
Jefferson Street (eastbound)      Pearson Street
Jefferson Street (westbound)      Lee Street
Jefferson Street (westbound)      Miner Street
Jon Lane (northbound)             Central Road
Joseph Schwab Road (northbound)   Miner Street
Joseph Schwab Road (southbound)   Algonquin Road
Kathleen Drive (westbound)        Elmhurst Road
King Lane (eastbound)             Mount Prospect Road
King Lane (westbound)             Beau Drive
Krowka Drive (westbound)          Maple Street
Kylemore Drive (westbound)        Wolf Road
Laurel Avenue (southbound)        Miner Street
Laurel Avenue (southbound)        Thacker Street
Leahy Circle South (southbound)   Clark Lane
Leslie Lane (northbound)          Algonquin Road
Lillian Lane (southbound)         Millers Road
Lincoln Avenue (eastbound)        River Road
Linden Street (southbound)        Riverview Avenue
Locust Street (north of Bennett), East-west alley north
north-south alley east of         of Bennett Place
Locust Street (northbound)        Howard Avenue
Longford Drive (westbound)        Wolf Road
Lyman Avenue (southbound)         Ballard Road
Magnolia Street (southbound)      Touhy Avenue
Manor Court (westbound)           Mount Prospect Road
Marcella Road (northbound)        Central Road
Margret Street (northbound)       Thacker Street
Margret Street (southbound)       Algonquin Road
Mark Avenue (westbound)           Wolf Road
Marshall Drive (northbound)       Golf Road
Marshall Drive (southbound)       Algonquin Road
Marshall Drive (southbound)       Oakton Street
Mary Street (northbound)          Golf Road
Mason Lane (northbound)           Miner Street
Mason Lane (southbound)           Busse Highway
Mill Street (westbound)           River Road
Millers Road (westbound)          Elmhurst Road
Morgan O'Brien Street (eastbound) Mount Prospect Road
Munroe Circle (northbound)        Dempster Street
Murray Lane (westbound)           Elmhurst Road
Nebel Lane (eastbound)            Plainfield Drive
Nelson Lane (northbound)          Central Road
Northeast Place (northbound)      Thacker Street
Northwest Place (northbound)      Thacker Street
Oakton Place (northbound)         Oakton Street
Oakwood Avenue (eastbound)        Cora Street
Oakwood Avenue (eastbound)        First Avenue
Oakwood Avenue (eastbound)        River Road
Oakwood Avenue (eastbound)        White Street
Old Higgins Road (eastbound)      Mount Prospect Road
Orchard Court (southbound)        Greenview Avenue
Orchard Street (southbound)       Howard Avenue
Ottawa Street (eastbound)         Bellaire Avenue
Oxford Road (south approach)      Columbia Avenue
Oxford Road (southbound)          Oakton Street
Park Place (eastbound)            Pearson Street
Park Place (westbound)            Lee Street
Parkview Lane (southbound)        Busse Highway
Patricia Lane (northbound)        Central Road
Patton Drive (southbound)         Higgins Road
Pearson Street (eastbound)        River Road
Pearson Street (southbound)       Thacker Street
Pennsylvania Avenue (northbound)  Algonquin Road
Pennsylvania Avenue (southbound)  Oakton Street
Perry Street (eastbound)          Graceland Avenue
Perry Street (westbound)          Graceland Avenue
Prairie Avenue (eastbound)        River Road
Pratt Avenue (westbound)          Mannheim Road
Princeton Street (westbound)      Radcliffe Avenue
Prospect Lane (eastbound)         Lee Street
Radcliffe Avenue (northbound)     Golf Road
Rawls Road (westbound)            Mount Prospect Road
Redeker Road (eastbound)          River Road
Ridge Lane (southbound)           Oakton Street
River Drive (westbound)           River Road
River Street (westbound)          River Road
Riverview Avenue (eastbound)      River Road
Roxbury Lane (eastbound)          Danbury Lane
Roxbury Lane (eastbound)          Mount Prospect Road
Rusty Drive (northbound)          Touhy Avenue
Second Avenue (northbound)        Golf Road
Second Avenue (southbound)        Algonquin Road
Seegers Road (eastbound)          Rand Road
Seegers Road (westbound)          Broadway
Seegers Road (westbound)          Wolf Road
Seminary Avenue (eastbound)       Potter Road
Seventh Avenue (northbound)       Golf Road
Seventh Avenue (southbound)       Seegers Road
Shannon Court (northbound)        Golf Road
Shepherd Drive (southbound)       Howard Avenue
Sherman Place (westbound)         River Road
Sherwin Avenue (eastbound)        River Road
Sherwin Avenue (westbound)        Frontage Road
Sixth Avenue (northbound)         Golf Road
Sixth Avenue (northbound)         Greenview Avenue
Sixth Avenue (southbound)         Prairie Avenue
Southeast Place (southbound)      Algonquin Road
Southwest Place (southbound)      Algonquin Road
Spruce Street (northbound)        Oakton Street
Stark Place (southbound)          Algonquin Road
State Street (eastbound)          Wolf Road
State Street (westbound)          Northwest Highway
Stewart Avenue (westbound)        River Road
Stillwell Drive (southbound)      Higgins Road
Stockton Avenue (eastbound)       River Road
Stratford Road (southbound)       State Street
Suffield Street (eastbound)       Potter Road
Susan Drive (northbound)          Jill Court
Thacker Street (eastbound)        River Road
Third Avenue (southbound)         Golf Road
Times Drive (southbound)          Oakton Street
Tracy Terrace (eastbound)         Wolf Road
Van Buren Avenue (eastbound)      Lee Street
Van Buren Avenue (eastbound)      River Road
Van Buren Avenue (westbound)      Wolf Road
Village Court (southbound)        Northwest Highway
Waikiki Drive (eastbound)         Third Avenue
Walnut Avenue (eastbound)         River Road
Walnut Avenue (westbound)         Third Avenue
Warrington Road (northbound)      Thacker Street
Warrington Road (westbound)       Mount Prospect Road
Washington Street (eastbound)     Graceland Avenue
Washington Street (westbound)     Mount Prospect Road
Webford Avenue (eastbound)        Graceland Avenue
Webford Avenue (southbound)       Prairie Avenue
Webster Lane (northbound)         Thacker Street
Webster Lane (southbound)         Touhy Avenue
Welwyn Avenue (eastbound)         River Road
Western Avenue (southbound)       Northwest Highway
Westfield Lane (eastbound)        Mount Prospect Road
Westgate Road (southbound)        Thacker Street
Westmere Road (eastbound)         Mount Prospect Road
Westview Drive (northbound)       Howard Avenue
Westview Drive (southbound)       Touhy Avenue
Whitcomb Avenue (eastbound)       River Road
White Street (northbound)         Ashland Avenue
Wicke Avenue (eastbound)          River Road
Wieboldt Drive (westbound)        Wolf Road
Wilkins Drive (northbound)        Golf Road
Wille Road (eastbound)            Mount Prospect Road
Wille Road (westbound)            Elmhurst Road
Willow Avenue (westbound)         Graceland Avenue
Wilson Drive (northbound)         Rand Road
Winthrop Drive (northbound)       Oakton Street
Wisconsin Drive (westbound)       Mount Prospect Road
Woodland Avenue (westbound)       River Road
Yale Court (westbound)            Broadway Street
 
   B.   Two-Way Stop Streets: The streets listed in this subsection in column A
are designated two-way stop streets. It shall be unlawful for any person
driving a vehicle on a street listed in column A to enter upon a through street
listed in column B without first coming to a complete stop and yielding the
right of way to traffic moving on the street listed in column B; those streets
listed in column A shall be stop streets for traffic upon the through streets
listed in column B and shall yield right of way to traffic moving upon those
streets listed in column B.
Column A    Column B
Stop Street Through Street
Column A                                Column B
Stop Street                             Through Street
Alles Street (north & southbound)       Harding Avenue
Alles Street (northbound)               Brown Street
Arlington Avenue (north & southbound)   Prairie Avenue
Ash Street (north & southbound)         Mannheim Road
Ashland Avenue (east & westbound)       Center Street
Beau Drive (north & southbound)         Dempster Street
Beau Drive (north & southbound)         Millers Road
Birch Street (north & southbound)       Everett Avenue
Chestnut Street (north & southbound)    Howard Avenue
Circle Street (southbound)              Prospect Avenue
Columbia Avenue (east & westbound)      Wolf Road
Cora Street (north & southbound)        Oakton Street
Cumberland Parkway (north & southbound) Golf Road
Deane Street (north & southbound)       Prospect Avenue
Debra Drive (east & westbound)          Beau Drive
Dennis Place                            Forest Avenue
Dorothy Drive (east & westbound)        Seymour Avenue
Dover Drive (east & westbound)          Marshall Drive
Drake Lane (east & westbound)           Ardmore Road
Drake Lane (east & westbound)           Cambridge Road
Drake Lane (east & westbound)           Stratford Road
Drake Lane (east & westbound)           Wolf Road
Dulles Road (east & westbound)          Bradley Street
Elm Street (north & southbound)         Riverview Avenue
Emerson Street (eastbound)              Good Avenue
Everett Avenue (east & westbound)       Lee Street
Everett Avenue (east & westbound)       Spruce Street
Fifth Avenue (north & southbound)       Golf Road
Fifth Avenue (north & southbound)       Prairie Avenue
First Avenue (north & southbound)       Prairie Avenue
First Avenue (north & southbound)       Woodlawn Avenue
First Avenue (southbound)               Walnut Avenue
Forest Avenue (east & westbound)        Wolf Road
Good Avenue (northbound)                Emerson Street
Graceland Avenue (southbound)           Walnut Avenue
Greenview Avenue (east & westbound)     Wolf Road
Harding Avenue (east & westbound)       Wolf Road
Harvey Avenue (east & westbound)        Wolf Road
Highland Drive                          Ash Street
Howard Avenue (westbound)               White Street
Jarvis Avenue (east & westbound)        Eastview Drive
Jarvis Avenue (east & westbound)        Wolf Road
Jon Lane (north & southbound)           Berkshire Lane
Kathleen Drive (east & westbound)       Mount Prospect Road
LaSalle Street                          Bradley Street
Laurel Avenue (north & southbound)      Harding Avenue
Leahy Circle East (north & southbound)  Dempster Street
Lincoln Avenue (east & westbound)       Cora Street
Lincoln Avenue (east & westbound)       Maple Street
Lincoln Avenue (east & westbound)       Wolf Road
Locust Street (north & southbound)      Everett Avenue
Locust Street (north & southbound)      Riverview Avenue
Margret Street (north & southbound)     Walnut Street
Marshall Drive (north & southbound)     Florian Drive
Millers Road (east & westbound)         Mount Prospect Road
Morse Avenue (east & westbound)         Scott Street
Munroe Circle (east & westbound)        Marshall Drive
Norman Court (east & westbound)         Marshall Drive
Oakwood Avenue (east & westbound)       Lee Street
Orchard Street (north & southbound)     Oakton Street
Parkwood Lane (southbound)              Rusty Drive
Pine Street (north & southbound)        Howard Avenue
Pine Street (north & southbound)        Prospect Avenue
Prairie Avenue (east & westbound)       Wolf Road
Princeton Street (east & westbound)     Wolf Road
Prospect Avenue (east & westbound)      Illinois Street
Prospect Avenue (east & westbound)      Lee Street
Prospect Avenue (east & westbound)      Orchard Street
Prospect Avenue (westbound)             Deane Street
Riverview Avenue (east & westbound)     Sycamore Street
Rose Avenue (east & westbound)          Second Avenue
Rose Avenue (east & westbound)          Wolf Road
Rusty Drive (southbound)                Parkwood Lane
Sandy Lane (east & westbound)           Beau Drive
Scott Street (north & southbound)       Touhy Avenue
Second Avenue (north & southbound)      Oakwood Avenue
Spruce Street (north & southbound)      Howard Avenue
Spruce Street (north & southbound)      Mannheim Road
Stockton Avenue (east & westbound)      Birch Street
Stone Street (east & westbound)         Wolf Road
Sycamore Street (north & southbound)    Everett Avenue
Third Avenue (north & southbound)       Greenview Avenue
Third Avenue (north & southbound)       Thacker Street
Van Buren Avenue (east & westbound)     Center Street
Walnut Avenue (east & westbound)        Mount Prospect Road
Walnut Avenue (eastbound)               Graceland Avenue
Walnut Avenue (eastbound)               Warrington Road
Warrington Road (north & southbound)    Golf Road
Warrington Road (southbound)            Walnut Avenue
Washington Street (east & westbound)    Wolf Road
Webster Lane (north & southbound)       Algonquin Road
Webster Lane (north & southbound)       Jarvis Avenue
Westmere Road                           Dara James Road
Whitcomb Avenue                         White Street
Whitcomb Avenue (east & westbound)      Cora Street
White Street (north & southbound)       Lincoln Avenue
White Street (southbound)               Howard Avenue
Wicke Avenue (east & westbound)         White Street
Wolf Road (north & southbound)          Golf Road
 
   C.   Three-Way Stop Streets: The streets listed in this subsection in
columns A and B, respectively, are designated three-way stop streets. It shall
be unlawful for any person driving a vehicle on a street listed in column A to
enter an intersection of such street with a street listed in column B without
first coming to a complete stop and yielding the right of way to traffic moving
upon the street listed in column B, and, likewise, such street listed in column
B shall be a stop street for traffic entering upon the street listed in column
A and shall yield the right of way to traffic on such street listed in column
A.
Column A Column B
Column A                                 Column B
Algonquin Road (east & westbound)        Third Avenue
Amherst Avenue (northbound)              Wisconsin Drive
Anita Street (north & southbound)        Evergreen Avenue
Bellaire Avenue (north & southbound)     Church Street
Bradley Street (eastbound)               Warrington Road
Brentwood Drive (southbound)             Dulles Avenue
Brown Street (westbound)                 Alles Street
Brown Street (westbound)                 Laurel Avenue
Center Street (north & southbound)       Walnut Avenue
Center Street (northbound)               Prairie Avenue
Chestnut Street (north & southbound)     Riverview Avenue
Church Street (east & westbound)         Good Avenue
Church Street (westbound)                Bellaire Avenue
Columbia Avenue (eastbound)              Warrington Road
Columbia Avenue (westbound)              Cumberland Parkway
Cora Street (north & southbound)         Walnut Street
Cora Street (northbound)                 Thacker Street
Cordial Drive (east & westbound)         Susan Drive
Cordial Drive (eastbound)                Marshall Drive
Craig Drive (east & westbound)           Patton Drive
Cumberland Parkway (north & southbound)  Columbia Avenue
Cumberland Parkway (northbound)          Warrington Road
Dara James Road (northbound)             Dulles Road
Dorothy Drive (eastbound)                Marshall Drive
Drake Lane (east & westbound)            Village Court
Dulles Road (east & westbound)           Brentwood Drive
Dulles Road (east & westbound)           Dara James Road
Earl Avenue (southbound)                 Forest Avenue
Eisenhower Drive (southbound)            Morse Avenue
Ellinwood Street (east & westbound)      Pearson Street
Everett Avenue (westbound)               Plainfield Drive
Evergreen Avenue (westbound)             Anita Street
Florian Drive (east & westbound)         Seymour Avenue
Forest Avenue (east & westbound)         Earl Avenue
Forest Avenue (east & westbound)         Webster Lane
Good Avenue (north & southbound)         Rita Road
Good Avenue (northbound)                 Church Street
Greco Avenue (north & southbound)        Lunt Avenue
Grove Avenue (north & southbound)        Hills Avenue
Hawthorne Lane (north & southbound)      Hawthorne Terrace
Hawthorne Terrace (westbound)            Hawthorne Lane
Hills Avenue (eastbound)                 Grove Avenue
Hoffman Parkway (eastbound)              Sixth Avenue
Hoffman Parkway (eastbound)              Third Avenue
Howard Avenue (east & westbound)         Koehler Drive
Koehler Drive (southbound)               Howard Avenue
Laurel Avenue (north & southbound)       Brown Street
Laurel Avenue (north & southbound)       Perry Street
Lincoln Lane (east & westbound)          Short Terrace
Lunt Avenue (westbound)                  Greco Avenue
Maple Street (north & southbound)        Sherwin Avenue
Marina Street (north & southbound)       Morgan O'Brien Street
Marshall Drive (north & southbound)      Cordial Drive
Marshall Drive (north & southbound)      Dorothy Drive
Morgan O'Brien Street (westbound)        Marina Street
Morse Avenue (east & westbound)          Eisenhower Drive
Oakwood Avenue (eastbound)               Center Street
Oakwood Avenue (eastbound)               Warrington Road
Oakwood Avenue (westbound)               Third Avenue
Patton Drive (northbound)                Craig Drive
Pearson Street (northbound)              Ellinwood Street
Pennsylvania Avenue (north & southbound) Roxbury Lane
Pennsylvania Avenue (north & southbound) Springfield Terrace
Pennsylvania Avenue (north & southbound) Windsor Drive
Perry Street (eastbound)                 Laurel Avenue
Plainfield Drive (north & southbound)    Everett Avenue
Plainfield Drive (north & southbound)    Nebel Lane
Prairie Avenue (east & westbound)        Center Street
Prospect Avenue (westbound)              White Street
Rita Road (eastbound)                    Good Avenue
Riverview Avenue (westbound)             Chestnut Street
Roxbury Lane (westbound)                 Pennsylvania Drive
Scott Street (southbound)                Sunset Drive
Seegers Road (east & westbound)          Sixth Avenue
Seymour Avenue (northbound)              Florian Drive
Short Terrace (northbound)               Lincoln Lane
Sixth Avenue (north & southbound)        Hoffman Parkway
Sixth Avenue (southbound)                Seegers Road
Springfield Terrace (eastbound)          Pennsylvania Avenue
Stillwell Drive (north & southbound)     Sunset Drive
Sunset Drive (eastbound)                 Stillwell Drive
Sunset Drive (westbound)                 Scott Street
Susan Drive (southbound)                 Cordial Drive
Thacker Street (east & westbound)        Cora Street
Third Avenue (north & southbound)        Algonquin Road
Third Avenue (north & southbound)        Hoffman Parkway
Third Avenue (north & southbound)        Oakwood Avenue
Village Court (northbound)               Drake Lane
Walnut Avenue (westbound)                Center Street
Walnut Avenue (westbound)                Cora Street
Walnut Avenue (westbound)                White Street
Warrington Road (east & westbound)       Cumberland Parkway
Warrington Road (north & southbound)     Bradley Street
Warrington Road (north & southbound)     Columbia Avenue
Warrington Road (north & southbound)     Oakwood Avenue
Washington Street (westbound)            Westgate Road
Webster Lane (north & southbound)        Wicke Avenue
Webster Lane (northbound)                Forest Avenue
Westgate Road (north & southbound)       Washington Street
White Street (north & southbound)        Prospect Avenue
White Street (north & southbound)        Walnut Avenue
Wicke Avenue (westbound)                 Webster Lane
Windsor Drive (westbound)                Pennsylvania Avenue
Wisconsin Drive (east & westbound)       Amherst Drive
 
   D.   Four-Way Stop Streets: The streets listed in this subsection in columns
A and B are designated four-way stop streets, respectively. It shall be
unlawful for any person driving a vehicle on a street listed in column A to
enter upon a corresponding street listed in column B, without first coming to a
complete stop and yielding the right of way to traffic moving on the street
listed in column B; and, likewise, those streets listed in column B shall be
stop streets for traffic moving on column A:
Column A Column B
Column A                                 Column B
Algonquin Road (east & westbound)        Center Street
Algonquin Road (east & westbound)        Cora Street
Algonquin Road (east & westbound)        White Street
Amherst Avenue (eastbound)               Pinehurst Drive
Amherst Avenue (north & southbound)      Princeton Street
Ash Street (north & southbound)          Everett Avenue
Ash Street (north & southbound)          Howard Avenue
Ash Street (north & southbound)          Prospect Avenue
Beau Drive (north & southbound)          Dulles Road
Beau Drive (north & southbound)          Kathleen Drive
Beau Drive (north & southbound)          Westmere Road
Bradley Street (east & westbound)        Westgate Road
Cambridge Road (north & southbound)      Drake Lane
Cambridge Road (north & southbound)      Princeton Street
Cedar Street (north & southbound)        Welwyn Avenue
Center Street (north & southbound)       Algonquin Road
Center Street (north & southbound)       Forest Avenue
Center Street (north & southbound)       Thacker Street
Clark Lane (north & southbound)          King Lane
Clark Lane (north & southbound)          Walnut Avenue
Cora Street (north & southbound)         Algonquin Road
Cora Street (north & southbound)         Forest Avenue
Cora Street (north & southbound)         Wicke Avenue
Cornell Avenue (north & southbound)      Drake Lane
Cornell Avenue (north & southbound)      Princeton Street
Craig Drive (north & southbound)         Pratt Avenue
Curtis Street (northbound)               Pratt Avenue
Dara James Road (north & southbound)     Kathleen Drive
Dara James Road (north & southbound)     Millers Road
Douglas Avenue (north & southbound)      Jarvis Avenue
Dover Drive (east & westbound)           Pennsylvania Avenue
Drake Lane (east & westbound)            Cornell Avenue
Dulles Road (east & westbound)           Beau Drive
Dulles Road (east & westbound)           Marshall Drive
East Grant Drive (north & southbound)    Hoffman Parkway
East Villa Drive (north & southbound)    Hoffman Parkway
Estes Avenue (east & westbound)          Rusty Drive
Everett Avenue (east & westbound)        Ash Street
Everett Avenue (east & westbound)        Illinois Street
Everett Avenue (east & westbound)        Maple Street
Everett Avenue (east & westbound)        Orchard Street
Everett Avenue (east & westbound)        Webster Lane
Everett Avenue (east & westbound)        White Street
Fifth Avenue (north & southbound)        Forest Avenue
Fifth Avenue (north & southbound)        Greenview Avenue
Forest Avenue (east & westbound)         Center Street
Forest Avenue (east & westbound)         Cora Street
Forest Avenue (east & westbound)         Fifth Avenue
Forest Avenue (east & westbound)         Margret Street
Forest Avenue (east & westbound)         White Street
Fourth Avenue (north & southbound)       Greenview Avenue
Fourth Avenue (north & southbound)       Prairie Avenue
Fremont Avenue (east & westbound)        Westgate Road
Graceland Avenue (north & southbound)    Harding Avenue
Greenview Avenue (east & westbound)      Fifth Avenue
Greenview Avenue (east & westbound)      Fourth Avenue
Greenview Avenue (east & westbound)      Second Avenue
Grove Avenue (north & southbound)        Woodland Avenue
Harding Avenue (east & westbound)        Graceland Avenue
Harvard Street (east & westbound)        Vassar Lane
Hoffman Parkway (east & westbound)       East Grant Drive
Hoffman Parkway (east & westbound)       East Villa Drive
Hoffman Parkway (east & westbound)       West Grant Drive
Hoffman Parkway (east & westbound)       West Villa Drive
Howard Avenue (east & westbound)         Ash Street
Howard Avenue (east & westbound)         Lee Street
Howard Avenue (east & westbound)         Maple Street
Howard Avenue (east & westbound)         Webster Lane
Howard Avenue (westbound)                Plainfield Drive
Illinois Street (north & southbound)     Everett Street
Illinois Street (north & southbound)     Riverview Avenue
Jarvis Avenue (east & westbound)         Douglas Avenue
Jarvis Avenue (east & westbound)         Westview Drive
Jeannette Street (north & southbound)    Oakwood Avenue
Jeannette Street (north & southbound)    Walnut Avenue
Kathleen Drive (east & westbound)        Beau Drive
Kathleen Drive (east & westbound)        Dara James Road
Kathleen Drive (east & westbound)        Leahy Circle East
Kathleen Drive (east & westbound)        Marshall Drive
King Lane (east & westbound)             Clark Lane
Lance Drive (east & westbound)           Kathleen Drive
Laura Lane (east & westbound)            Scott Street
Leahy Circle East (north & southbound)   Kathleen Drive
Leahy Circle East (north & southbound)   Millers Road
Leahy Circle East (north & southbound)   Walnut Avenue
Lee Street (north & southbound)          Howard Avenue
Lincoln Avenue (east & westbound)        Orchard Street
Maple Street (north & southbound)        Everett Avenue
Maple Street (north & southbound)        Howard Avenue
Maple Street (north & southbound)        Morse Avenue
Maple Street (north & southbound)        Riverview Avenue
Maple Street (southbound)                Pratt Avenue
Margret Street (north & southbound)      Forest Avenue
Margret Street (north & southbound)      Oakwood Avenue
Marshall Drive (north & southbound)      Dulles Road
Marshall Drive (north & southbound)      Kathleen Drive
Marshall Drive (north & southbound)      Millers Road
Marshall Drive (north & southbound)      Walnut Avenue
Millers Road (east & westbound)          Dara James Road
Millers Road (east & westbound)          Leahy Circle East
Millers Road (east & westbound)          Marshall Drive
Millers Road (east & westbound)          Westgate Road
Morse Avenue (east & westbound)          Maple Street
Northwest Place (north & southbound)     West Grant Drive
Oakwood Avenue (east & westbound)        Jeannette Street
Oakwood Avenue (east & westbound)        Margret Street
Oakwood Avenue (east & westbound)        Webster Lane
Orchard Street (north & southbound)      Everett Avenue
Orchard Street (north & southbound)      Lincoln Avenue
Orchard Street (north & southbound)      Riverview Avenue
Pearson Street (north & southbound)      Prairie Avenue
Pennsylvania Avenue (north & southbound) Dover Drive
Pinehurst Drive (north & southbound)     Amherst Drive
Plainfield Drive (north & southbound)    Howard Avenue
Prairie Avenue (east & westbound)        Third Avenue
Prairie Avenue (east & westbound)        Fourth Avenue
Prairie Avenue (east & westbound)        Pearson Street
Prairie Avenue (east & westbound)        Second Avenue
Pratt Avenue (east & westbound)          Craig Drive
Pratt Avenue (east & westbound)          Maple Street
Pratt Avenue (east & westbound)          Scott Street
Princeton Street (east & westbound)      Amherst Avenue
Princeton Street (east & westbound)      Cambridge Road
Princeton Street (east & westbound)      Cornell Avenue
Prospect Avenue (east & westbound)       Ash Street
Prospect Avenue (east & westbound)       Spruce Avenue
Riverview Avenue (east & westbound)      Illinois Street
Riverview Avenue (east & westbound)      Maple Street
Riverview Avenue (east & westbound)      Orchard Street
Riverview Avenue (east & westbound)      White Street
Rusty Drive (north & southbound)         Estes Avenue
Scott Street (north & southbound)        Laura Lane
Scott Street (north & southbound)        Pratt Avenue
Second Avenue (north & southbound)       Greenview Avenue
Second Avenue (north & southbound)       Prairie Avenue
Second Avenue (north & southbound)       Thacker Street
Second Avenue (north & southbound)       Walnut Avenue
Second Avenue (north & southbound)       Woodlawn Avenue
Southwest Place (east & westbound)       West Grant Drive
Spruce Avenue (north & southbound)       Prospect Avenue
Thacker Street (east & westbound)        Center Street
Thacker Street (east & westbound)        Second Avenue
Third Avenue (north & southbound)        Woodlawn Avenue
Van Buren Avenue (east & westbound)      White Street
Vassar Lane (north & southbound)         Harvard Avenue
Walnut Avenue (east & westbound)         Clark Lane
Walnut Avenue (east & westbound)         Jeannette Street
Walnut Avenue (east & westbound)         Leahy Circle East
Walnut Avenue (east & westbound)         Marshall Drive
Walnut Avenue (east & westbound)         Second Avenue
Webster Lane (north & southbound)        Everett Street
Webster Lane (north & southbound)        Howard Avenue
Webster Lane (north & southbound)        Oakwood Avenue
Welwyn Avenue (east & westbound)         Cedar Street
West Grant Drive (east & westbound)      Northwest Place
West Grant Drive (north & southbound)    Hoffman Parkway
West Grant Drive (north & southbound)    Southwest Place
West Villa Drive (north & southbound)    Hoffman Parkway
Westgate Road (north & southbound)       Bradley Street
Westgate Road (north & southbound)       Fremont Avenue
Westgate Road (north & southbound)       Millers Road
Westmere Road (east & westbound)         Beau Drive
Westview Drive (north & southbound)      Jarvis Avenue
White Street (north & southbound)        Algonquin Road
White Street (north & southbound)        Everett Street
White Street (north & southbound)        Forest Avenue
White Street (north & southbound)        Riverview Avenue
White Street (north & southbound)        Van Buren Street
Wicke Avenue (east & westbound)          Cora Street
Woodland Avenue (east & westbound)       Grove Avenue
Woodlawn Avenue (east & westbound)       Second Avenue
Woodlawn Avenue (east & westbound)       Third Avenue
 
(Ord. T-3-90, 5-7-1990; amd. Ord. T-5-91, 4-15-1991; Ord. T-7-91, 7-1-1991;
Ord. T-16-92, 12-7-1992; Ord. T-5-93, 7-19-1993; Ord. T-12-93, 11-15-1993; Ord.
T-5-95, 4-17-1995; Ord. T-11-95, 11-20-1995; Ord. T-5-96, 2-5-1996; Ord. T-6-
96, 4-15-1996; Ord. T-9-96, 12-2-1996; Ord. T-10-96, 1-6-1997; Ord. T-2-97, 2-
18-1997; Ord. T-16-97, 12-1-1997; Ord. T-2-98, 1-19-1998; Ord. T-3-98, 2-2-
1998; Ord. T-1-99, 1-18-1999; Ord. T-5-02, 8-19-2002; Ord. T-9-02, 10-21-2002;
Ord. T-3-03, 2-18-2003; Ord. T-6-03, 5-5-2003; Ord. T-11-03, 9-15-2003; Ord. T-
13-04, 8-2-2004; Ord. T-15-04, 8-2-2004; Ord. T-20-04, 12-20-2004; Ord. T-23-
04, 1-3-2005; Ord. T-1-07, 1-16-2007; Ord. T-4-07, 5-21-2007; Ord. T-3-09, 5-4-
2009 ; Ord. M-43-19, 11-18-2019 ; Ord. M-19-22, 6-6-2022 )
7-5-5: YIELD RIGHT OF WAY:
The following intersections are designated as yield right of way intersections
and traffic shall yield as indicated. Yield right of way signs shall be
maintained at the appropriate approaches to said intersection and thereupon the
driver of every vehicle approaching said sign shall reduce the speed of his
vehicle to not more than twenty (20) miles per hour and shall yield the right
of way to other vehicles which have entered the intersecting highway or street
either from the right or left or which are approaching so closely on said
intersecting highway or street as to constitute an immediate hazard; but said
driver having so yielded may proceed at such time as a safe interval occurs. If
a driver is involved in a collision at such intersection or interferes with the
movement of other vehicles after driving past a yield right of way sign, such
collision or interference shall be deemed prima facie evidence of the driver's
failure to yield right of way.
Traffic On The       Shall Yield Right Of Way
Street Listed Below  For The Street Listed Below
Traffic On The                              Shall Yield Right Of Way
Street Listed Below                         For The Street Listed Below
Ambleside Road                              Beau Drive
Ambleside Road                              Marshall Street
Amherst Avenue (north and                   Harvard Street
southbound)
Ardmore Road                                Princeton Street
Ash Street (north and southbound)           Fargo Avenue
Ashland Avenue                              Center Street
Beau Drive                                  Dulles Road
Brown Street                                Laurel Avenue, going west
Campbell Avenue                             Center Street
Campbell Avenue                             Cora Street
Campbell Avenue                             White Street
Carlow Drive                                Waterford Drive
Chestnut Street (northbound)                Fargo Avenue
Cindy Lane (northbound)                     Forest Avenue
Cora Street                                 Riverview Avenue
Debra Drive                                 Marshall Drive
Dover Drive (eastbound)                     Both westbound Dover Drive and
                                            southbound Miami Lane
Drake Lane                                  Cambridge Road
Drake Lane (eastbound)                      Amherst Avenue
Eisenhower Drive                            Pratt Avenue
Eisenhower Drive (northbound)               Morse Avenue
Elizabeth Lane                              Devonshire Drive
Estes Avenue                                Rusty Drive
Fargo Avenue                                Cedar Street
Fifth Avenue                                Polynesian Drive
Florian Drive                               Marshall Drive
Fourth Avenue                               Waikiki Drive
Fourth Avenue (northbound)                  Forest Avenue
Harvard Street                              Cambridge Road
Henry Avenue                                Center Street, going east
Hollywood Avenue                            Second Avenue
Hollywood Avenue                            Third Avenue
Inner Circle Drive (northbound and          Morgan O'Brien Street
southbound)
Jeannette Street                            Forest Avenue
Joyce Drive                                 Cordial Drive
Kenmare Drive (eastbound)                   Carlow Drive
Lance Drive                                 Beau Drive
Laura Lane                                  Rusty Drive
Laurel Avenue                               Webford Avenue
Leahy Circle East                           Kathleen Drive
Lee Street                                  Lee Street – First Avenue, going
                                            south
Lincoln Avenue                              Center Street
Lincoln Avenue                              Fifth Avenue
Lincoln Avenue                              Maple Street
Lincoln Avenue                              White Street
Luau Drive                                  Fourth Avenue
Northeast Place (north and southbound)      East Grant Drive
Orchard Street                              Forest Avenue
Oxford Road (southbound)                    Jarvis Street
Park Place                                  Jefferson Street, going west
Pine Street (northbound)                    Fargo Avenue
Pinehurst Drive                             Drake Lane
Pinehurst Drive (northbound and southbound) Princeton Street
Prairie Avenue                              Webford Avenue, going north
Princeton Street                            Cambridge Road
Radcliffe Avenue                            Cranbrook Drive
Radcliffe Avenue                            Harvard Street
Riverview Avenue                            White Street
Rose Avenue                                 Third Avenue
Rusty Drive                                 Craig Drive
Second Avenue                               Forest Avenue
Second Avenue                               Oakwood Avenue
Sixth Avenue                                Forest Avenue
Sixth Avenue                                Polynesian Drive
Southeast Place (north and                  East Grant Drive
southbound)
Springfield Terrace                         Pennsylvania Avenue, going
                                            northwest
Spruce Avenue (north and                    Fargo Avenue
southbound)
Spruce Avenue (north and                    Highland Avenue
southbound)
Stockton Avenue                             Maple Street
Stockton Avenue                             Orchard Street
Stone Street                                Cornell Avenue
Stratford Road                              Princeton Street
Third Avenue                                Berkshire Lane
Van Buren Avenue                            Cora Street
Vassar Lane (southbound)                    Princeton Street
Waikiki                                     Fifth Avenue
Walter Avenue                               Second Avenue
Walter Avenue                               Third Avenue
Washington Street                           Laurel Avenue, going east
Webster Lane                                Walnut Avenue
Welwyn Avenue                               Cedar Street
Westmere Road                               Leahy Circle East
Whitcomb Avenue                             Center Street
Wicke Avenue                                Center Street
Wicke Avenue                                Cora Street
Wicke Avenue                                Orchard Street
Wilkins Drive                               Bradley Street, going south
 
(Ord. T-35-69, 1-13-1970; amd. Ord. T-3-70, 2-16-1970; Ord. T-10-70, 4-7-1970;
Ord. T-49-70, 12-21-1970; Ord. T-15-71, 7-6-1971; Ord. T-17-71, 7-19-1971; Ord.
T-22-71, 10-19-1971; Ord. T-16-72, 6-19-1972; Ord. T-28-72, 10-2-1972; Ord. T-
30-72, 10-2-1972; Ord. T-41-72, 1-4-1973; Ord. T-2-73, 1-16-1973; Ord. T-4-73,
3-19-1973; Ord. T-13-73, 7-16-1973; Ord. T-14-73, 7-16-1973; Ord. T-15-73, 7-
16-1973; Ord. T-18-73, 9-17-1973; Ord. T-1-74, 2-4-1974; Ord. T-16-74, 8-5-
1974; Ord. T-18-74, 8-5-1974; Ord. T-20-74, 8-21-1974; Ord. T-35-74, 12-2-1974;
Ord. T-39-74, 12-16-1974; Ord. T-40-74, 1-6-1975; Ord. T-7-75, 4-7-1975; Ord.
T-22-75, 10-20-1975; Ord. T-18-76, 11-15-1976; Ord. T-2-77, 3-7-1977; Ord. T-3-
77, 4-18-1977; Ord. T-16-77, 9-6-1977; Ord. T-19-78, 9-18-1978; Ord. T-2-81,
1981; Ord. T-7-81, 7-6-1981; Ord. T-11-81, 11-16-1981; Ord. T-12-81, 11-16-
1981; Ord. T-14-81, 12-21-1981; Ord. T-1-82, 2-15-1982; Ord. T-13-82, 11-15-
1982; Ord. T-16-82, 12-20-1982; Ord. T-16-84, 7-2-1984; Ord. T-24-84, 8-6-1984;
Ord. T-11-85, 8-5-1985; Ord. T-18-91, 11-4-1991; Ord. T-5-93, 7-19-1993; Ord.
T-9-93, 8-16-1993; Ord. T-12-93, 11-15-1993; Ord. T-4-94, 5-16-1994; Ord. T-5-
95, 4-17-1995; Ord. T-7-95, 7-5-1995; Ord. T-6-96, 4-15-1996; Ord. T-5-98, 2-
17-1998; Ord. T-14-98, 9-21-1998; Ord. T-2-99, 1-18-1999; Ord. T-3-99, 1-18-
1999; Ord. T-11-99, 12-20-1999; Ord. T-2-01, 4-2-2001; Ord. T-3-01, 6-4-2001;
Ord. T-7-01, 10-1-2001; Ord. T-8-02, 10-21-2002; Ord. T-2-03, 1-20-2003; Ord.
T-6-03, 5-5-2003; Ord. T-12-04, 8-2-2004; Ord. T-22-04, 1-3-2005; Ord. T-3-09,
5-4-2009)
7-5-6: PEDESTRIAN CROSSWALKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person driving a vehicle upon any of the streets
listed in this section in column A to enter the pedestrian crosswalk listed in
column B without first coming to a complete stop and yielding the right of way
to pedestrian traffic moving upon the pedestrian crosswalks listed in column B
and those pedestrian crosswalks in column B shall be stop crosswalks as far as
traffic upon the streets listed in column A is concerned, so that the
intersections of streets listed in column A and crosswalks listed in column B
shall be two-way stops for the traffic upon the streets listed in column B:
 
Column A         Column B
Clearwater Drive Crosswalk on Clearwater Drive approximately 425 feet south of
                 the intersection of Howard Avenue and Clearwater Drive.
 
(Ord. T-2-74, 3-4-1974; amd. Ord. T-5-91, 4-15-1991)
CHAPTER 6
TRAFFIC ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
SECTION:
7-6-1: Use Of Off-Street Parking
7-6-2: Traffic Violation
7-6-3: Impoundment Of Vehicle
7-6-4: Payment Of Charges
7-6-5: Agreements For Enforcement Of Traffic Laws
7-6-1: USE OF OFF-STREET PARKING:
   A.   Comply With Zoning: It shall be unlawful for any person not so entitled
to park a vehicle in a private parking space or lot, established voluntarily or
pursuant to the Des Plaines zoning ordinance, to provide off-street parking
facilities for the owner or his tenants, employees or invitees. (Ord. T-1-68,
6-24-1968)
   B.   Posted Parking Or Traffic Regulations On Private Property: It shall be
unlawful to park or operate any motor vehicle in violation of parking or
traffic movement regulations posted on private property for which there is an
agreement for enforcement as provided by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
209. (Ord. T-1-80, 1-2-1980)
7-6-2: TRAFFIC VIOLATION:
Whenever any vehicle is parked in a private parking space or lot in violation
of this title and there is no person in attendance upon such parked vehicle to
be arrested or served immediately with a traffic violation notice to appear in
court to answer to the charge of such violation, any police officer upon a
written complaint signed by the owner or proprietor of the space or lot, or by
his authorized agent, that the vehicle is not entitled to the privileges of the
parking space or lot, may attach to a vehicle a traffic violation notice as
provided herein under chapter 10 of this title. (Ord. T-1-68, 6-24-1968)
7-6-3: IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLE:
Members of the police department are hereby authorized to remove a vehicle from
a private parking space or lot to the nearest city vehicle pound or authorized
garage as determined and designated by the chief of police, under the following
circumstances:
   A.   When the private space or lot is clearly marked or posted with a sign
containing a warning "Private Parking, No Trespassing, Violators Will Be Towed
Away At Their Expense", or words to that effect; and
   B.   When the owner or proprietor of the said space or lot, or his
authorized agent, signs a written complaint for trespassing as defined under
720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-3; and
   C.   When the owner or proprietor of the said space or lot, or his duly
authorized agent, deposits with the police department a sum of money sufficient
to cover the minimum towing and storage charges to be incurred by the city in
removing and storing said vehicle. (Ord. T-1-68, 6-24-1968)
7-6-4: PAYMENT OF CHARGES:
Any person seeking to redeem a vehicle impounded pursuant to this chapter shall
first pay all towing and storage charges incurred by the city, as a condition
precedent to his right to redeem said vehicle. (Ord. T-1-68, 6-24-1968)
7-6-5: AGREEMENTS FOR ENFORCEMENT OF TRAFFIC LAWS:
   A.   The city manager or city attorney may file any request to enter into a
contract pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-209 with the city
clerk. The city clerk shall place the proposed contract on the agenda of the
next regular meeting of the city council for action. The city council need not
refer the proposed contract to any committee before taking final action
thereon.
   B.   The private streets and roads under the jurisdiction of the following
persons or boards which own, operate or represent the following residential
subdivisions, developments, apartment houses or apartment projects, shall be
considered "highways" for the enforcement of the Illinois motor vehicle code
thereon, pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-209.1: (Ord. M-40-92,
9-8-1992)
   Name Of
   Operating Board/Person   Address
   Pine Court Homeowners   1800 block Mannheim Road
   Association   1800 block Pine Court
      1800 block Pine Street
      1400 block Prospect Avenue
      1400 block Everett Avenue
   Pine Plaines Townhouse   1361 Howard Avenue
   Association   1363 Howard Avenue
      1365 Howard Avenue
      1369 Howard Avenue
      1371 Howard Avenue
      2003 Pine Street
      2007 Pine Street
      2011 Pine Street
      2015 Pine Street
      2019 Pine Street
      2029 Pine Street
      2031 Pine Street
      2035 Pine Street
      2045 Pine Street
      2049 Pine Street
      2053 Pine Street
      2057 Pine Street
      2063 Pine Street
      2067 Pine Street
      2071 Pine Street
      2075 Pine Street
      2017 A,B,C,D,E,F Pine Street
      2019 A,B,C,D,E,F Pine Street
      2039 A,B,C,D,E,F Pine Street
      2041 A,B,C,D,E,F Pine Street
      2059 A,B,C,D,E,F Pine Street
      2061 A,B,C,D,E,F Pine Street
      2081 A,B,C,D,E,F Pine Street
(Ord. M-40-92, 9-8-1992; amd. Ord. M-71-94, 11-7-1994)
CHAPTER 7
PARKING LOTS
SECTION:
7-7-1: Parking Lot Defined
7-7-2: Permit; Fees
7-7-3: Parking Lot Regulations
7-7-4: Condition Of Vehicles
7-7-5: "M-Plate Only" Parking
7-7-6: Des Plaines Municipal Garage
7-7-7: City Parking Lots And Facilities; Fees; Time Limits
7-7-8: Municipal Employee Parking Lots
7-7-1: PARKING LOT DEFINED:
The term "parking lot" as used in this chapter shall mean any place maintained
for the outdoor parking of cars, excepting on a street, alley or other public
place. (Ord. M-48-79, 11-19-1979)
7-7-2: PERMIT; FEES:
   A.   Permit: It shall be unlawful to operate a parking lot without first
having obtained a permit therefor. Application for permit shall be made in
writing to the license officer and shall contain all necessary information to
ensure size, number of cars to be accommodated, and a statement of any services
other than parking, or of any commodities for sale, offered to patrons of the
parking lot.
   B.   Fees; Parking Prohibited: The annual fee for such a license shall be
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for parking of no more than fifty (50)
cars, five hundred dollars ($500.00) for parking of over fifty (50) cars.
Commercial parking on unpaved property shall be prohibited. (Ord. M-48-85, 9-
16-1985)
   C.   Disposition Of Fees And Fines: All fees and fines collected hereunder
shall be deposited with the director of finance and administrative services and
credited to the motor vehicle parking system revenue fund of the city. (Ord. T-
10-72, 3-6-1972)
7-7-3: PARKING LOT REGULATIONS:
   A.   General: No parking lot shall be established or operated in any place
where such establishment or operation would be in violation of a zoning
regulation. No more than one car for each two hundred (200) square feet of area
shall be accepted for parking in any such place. Each parking lot shall be
marked so as to show the parking place allotted for each car, and shall have
sufficient entrances and exits to permit the entrance and egress of cars
without obstruction to traffic.
   B.   Driveways: No driveway to a parking lot shall be constructed excepting
in full compliance with the provisions of this code to the issuance of permits
for driveways; and it shall be the duty of the operator of each parking lot to
maintain the sidewalk and parkway over which such driveway passes in good
condition.
   C.   Signage: At the entrance of each parking lot there shall be posted in
words and figures large enough to be read by prospective patrons a statement of
the rates to be charged and of the closing hours. (Ord., 10-2-1950)
   D.   Parking Lot Surface: It shall be unlawful to permit property to be used
as a parking lot unless it is constructed in accordance with the building code
of the city 1
; and the parking lot shall at all times be kept clean and free from dust or
refuse. (Ord. M-48-79, 11-19-1979)
   E.   Overnight Parking: It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle or
permit a vehicle to remain in any space in any parking lot operated by the city
at any time in which the lots are not in operation as provided in subsection
7-7-7C of this chapter except on Sundays and legal holidays and except that
residents may park in such lots when the same are not in operation, and except
for the provisions of subsection
7-7-6B of this chapter. Any resident parking overnight shall remove the vehicle
parked prior to the time the lot opens. Also, this subsection shall be subject
to the provisions of subsection
7-3-8B of this title concerning parking when snow is on the surface. The
parking lines for each space shall be adhered to in such parking lot in the
same manner as is required during other times. (Ord. T-5-00, 6-5-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this code.
7-7-4: CONDITION OF VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful to park or store, in any parking lot, any vehicle which is
not in a condition ready for use, or to permit the parking of any abandoned,
junked or partially disabled vehicle in any such lot, and it shall be unlawful
to use any parking lot for storage or parking of any vehicle for the purpose of
displaying the same for sale, or to use any parking lot or portion thereof as
an automobile repair shop. (Ord., 10-2-1950)
7-7-5: "M-PLATE ONLY" PARKING:
It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle, motorcycle, or any other vehicle
that does not bear an M-plate, in the parking space posted as "M-plate only".
(Ord. M-30-98, 6-15-1998)
7-7-6: DES PLAINES MUNICIPAL GARAGE:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section, the lower level,
second floor and rooftop parking of the Des Plaines municipal garage shall be
reserved for the 701 Lee building tenant parking only, from seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. to six o'clock (6:00) P.M., Monday through Friday, and from eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. to twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on Saturday. Vehicles parked
in violation of this section shall be subject to towing, an impoundment fee
plus costs, and a twenty dollar ($20.00) fine.
   B.   Overnight parking by tenants of the 701 Lee Street building will be
permitted only on the lower level, and only if a parking permit sign issued by
the city is conspicuously displayed in the windshield area of the vehicle.
(Ord. T-4-00, 6-5-2000)
7-7-7: CITY PARKING LOTS AND FACILITIES; FEES; TIME LIMITS:
The following provisions apply to all parking lots or parking facilities owned
or operated by the city:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle in any parking
lot or parking facility owned or operated by the city without first depositing
the appropriate fare in the fare box or by monthly payment or lease payment to
the city for the space occupied.
   B.   A person shall be entitled to park a vehicle in any of the aforesaid
city parking lots or parking facilities for a period of twelve (12) hours for a
daily fee of two dollars ($2.00).
   C.   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle or to permit a vehicle to
remain in any space in a parking lot or parking facility for a period longer
than twelve (12) hours; however, the provisions of this section shall not apply
on Sundays and legal holidays when vehicles may be parked without payment but
the parking lines for each space shall be adhered to in such parking lot in the
same manner as is required during other times.
   D.   The following provisions apply to the use of electric vehicle charging
stations located within parking lots or parking facilities owned or operated by
the city:
      1.   At the direction of the city council by resolution or ordinance duly
adopted, the city manager, or his or her designee, shall have the authority to
install and enforce signs restricting parking in certain parking spaces only by
electric vehicles using an electric vehicle charging station.
      2.   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in a parking space in
violation of a sign restricting parking within the parking space only by
electric vehicles using an electric vehicle charging station.
      3.   Any person who uses an electric vehicle charging station shall pay
to the city a fee equal to the number of kilowatt hours of electricity used
multiplied by the rate charged per kilowatt hour of electricity by the City’s
electric supplier, as such rate may be amended from time to time, plus a 10
percent service fee and a three percent administrative fee.
      4.   Any person who violates any provision of this subsection D shall be
fined in the amount provided in section
7-10-6  of this title. (Ord. M-9-14, 4-21-2014; amd. Ord. M-51-19, 12-16-2019;
Ord. M-4-24, 3-18-2024)
7-7-8: MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEE PARKING LOTS:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section, the civic center
parking deck, the parking lot adjacent to the police department and the parking
lot at 606 Lee Street shall be reserved for city of Des Plaines employees only,
and only if an employee parking permit issued by the city is conspicuously
displayed in the windshield area of the vehicle. Vehicles parked in violation
of this section shall be subject to a twenty five dollar ($25.00) fine.
   B.   Parking is permitted in the 606 Lee Street lot after five o'clock (5:
00) P.M. to six o'clock (6:00) A.M. Monday through Friday and all day Saturdays
and Sundays. (Ord. T-16-04, 9-7-2004)
CHAPTER 8
ABANDONED, WRECKED VEHICLES AND BICYCLES
SECTION:
7-8-1: Definitions
7-8-2: Abandonment Unlawful
7-8-3: Towing And Storage Of Improperly Parked Vehicles And Abandoned Vehicles
7-8-4: Disposal Of Abandoned Vehicles
7-8-5: Abandoned Bicycles
7-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
ascribed to them as follows:
ABANDONED BICYCLE: Any bicycle in a state of disrepair rendering the bicycle
incapable of being ridden in its present condition; or any bicycle that has not
been moved or used for seven (7) consecutive days or more and bears physical
indicia of having been abandoned.
ABANDONED VEHICLE: All motor vehicles or other vehicles in a state of disrepair
rendering the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition; or any motor
vehicle that has not been moved or used for seven (7) consecutive days or more
and has no current license or city sticker.
HIGHWAY: Any street, alley, or public way within the city. (Ord. M-37-09, 10-5-
2009)
7-8-2: ABANDONMENT UNLAWFUL:
The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof, on any
highway in this city is unlawful and subject to penalties as set forth herein.
The abandonment of a motor vehicle or any part thereof on private or public
property, other than a highway, in view of the general public, anywhere in the
city, is unlawful except on property of the owner or bailee of such abandoned
vehicle. A motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof so abandoned may
be authorized for removal by or upon the order of the chief of police, after a
waiting period of ten (10) days after the pretow warning notice is sent to the
owner, as specified in section
7-8-3 of this chapter. (Ord. M-21-97, 5-5-1997)
7-8-3: TOWING AND STORAGE OF IMPROPERLY PARKED VEHICLES AND ABANDONED VEHICLES:
   A.   Any vehicle parked in violation of section
7-8-2 of this chapter, or determined to be abandoned shall be subject to being
towed by the city or any of its officers, employees or agents to a location
designated by the city at the expense of the owner of the vehicle.
   B.   The vehicle shall have a tow notice applied to it. A pretow warning
notice shall be sent to the registered owner and the lien holder, if any, by
both first class and certified mail. The pretow warning notice will include a
description of the vehicle, the license plate and vehicle identification
numbers (VIN) and notice that a hearing will be granted, if requested. If a
hearing is requested, it will be granted within two (2) working days and held
during normal business hours. The hearing will be conducted by the city manager
or his designee.
   C.   If, after ten (10) days, there has been no response to the pretow
warning notice, the vehicle may be towed. A posttow notice form will be sent by
both first class and certified mail to the owner and the lien holder, if any,
no more than ten (10) days after the vehicle was towed, and it must include a
copy of the city's vehicle tow report. This notice must also include the
opportunity for a posttow hearing. If a hearing is requested, it will be
granted within two (2) working days and held during normal business hours. The
hearing will be conducted by the city manager or his designee.
   D.   For vehicles that are seven (7) years old or newer, the police
department shall also send a second posttow notice by both first class and
certified mail to the owner and the lien holder, if any. This notice must be
sent no less than ten (10) days prior to the vehicle being sold at public
auction or otherwise disposed of.
   E.   Immediate towing, without prior notice, of an illegally parked or
abandoned vehicle is permitted if the registered owner and lien holder cannot
be located because the license plates and VIN have been removed or made
illegible, the vehicle poses an immediate hazard to others, the vehicle is
obstructing traffic or access to a roadway or pedestrian walkway or otherwise
creates an emergency, the vehicle is discovered to be stolen, or the vehicle
otherwise presents an immediate threat to the public health and safety.
   F.   The city shall not be liable for any damage to any vehicle which occurs
as a result of the towing and storage of any vehicle under the provisions of
this section. (Ord. M-21-97, 5-5-1997)
7-8-4: DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES:
There is hereby adopted by reference 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-202 and
205. Except as set forth in section
7-8-3 of this chapter, abandoned vehicles may be disposed of by the police
chief in the following manner:
   A.   Whenever a motor vehicle is appraised at a value not exceeding one
hundred dollars ($100.00), the police chief may offer the vehicle at any public
auction of motor vehicles, to the highest bidder for cash, the time and place
of such sale to be published at least once in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county without the necessity of notice to the owner or other
persons if the name and address of the owner and other persons cannot be
ascertained by identification in or on the vehicle or by reasonable inquiry in
the neighborhood where the vehicle has been abandoned and if there are no state
of Illinois registration plates displayed on the vehicle or, even though state
of Illinois registration plates are displayed on the vehicle, if the
registration plates are displayed in violation of the Illinois vehicle code or
if the registered owner has been notified by certified United States mail,
return receipt requested, that the motor vehicle is to be disposed of and has
subscribed to an affidavit disclaiming any future interest in the vehicle or
has failed to subscribe to such an affidavit and has, for a period of fifteen
(15) days after notification, failed to reclaim the vehicle. The refusal or
failure to reclaim shall constitute a waiver of all interest in the vehicle.
   B.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, whenever a motor vehicle
has remained unclaimed by the owner or other person legally entitled to its
possession for a period of thirty (30) days from the day when the motor vehicle
was delivered to the officer, and after notices have been given as is provided
in this section, it shall become the duty of the police chief to cause the
motor vehicle to be sold at public auction to the highest bidder for cash, the
time and place of the sale to be published once in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county not less than ten (10) nor more than fifteen (15)
days from expiration of the thirty (30) days, and the chief shall also cause a
notice of the sale to be mailed to the secretary of state and to the owner or
other persons legally entitled to the possession not less than ten (10) nor
more than fifteen (15) days from the expiration of the thirty (30) days. The
notice shall contain a full description of the motor vehicle to be sold and the
time and place of sale; provided that any such motor vehicle not sold at the
first sale may be offered for sale and sold at any subsequent sale without
further notice of publication.
   C.   Whenever any motor vehicle remains unsold for a period of sixty (60)
days from and including the day when it was delivered to the police department
or towing company, any such motor vehicle may be given to the use of any
municipal department of the city or may be destroyed and removed at the
discretion of the police chief.
   D.   Proceeds of any sale after paying all liens and deducting all
reasonable charges and expenses incurred by the police chief in receiving,
keeping, advertising for sale, or selling or otherwise disposing of any such
motor vehicle, shall be paid into the treasury of the city.
   E.   Whenever the owner or other person legally entitled to the possession
of any motor vehicle delivered to the care and custody of the officer charged
with the keeping of the same desires to claim any such motor vehicle at any
time before it has been sold at public auction, he or she shall be entitled to
the return of any such motor vehicle upon making application for return in
writing addressed to the police chief, including a reasonable proof of
ownership or right to possession; provided, however, that no claimant shall be
entitled to a return of any motor vehicle until all reasonable and necessary
charges and expenses incurred by any person or officer in dealing with it as
contemplated under the provisions of this section have been paid. (Ord. M-21-
97, 5-5-1997)
7-8-5: ABANDONED BICYCLES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon any bicycle on any
public way within the city. A bicycle shall be deemed abandoned if it: 1) is in
such a state of disrepair as to be incapable of being operated in its present
condition, or 2) has not been moved or used in more than seven (7) days and
bears physical indicia of having been abandoned.
   B.   Any bicycle deemed abandoned pursuant to subsection A of this section
will have a notice affixed to it which informs the bicycle's owner that the
bicycle appears to be abandoned. The police chief or his designee is authorized
to affix such notices upon bicycles. This notice shall indicate: 1) a telephone
number for the owner to call to inform the city of Des Plaines that the bicycle
is not abandoned; and 2) the date after which the bicycle may be removed if it
is not claimed by its owner. A bicycle shall not be deemed to be abandoned if
the owner of the bicycle, within seven (7) days of the affixing of a notice of
abandonment, notifies the city of Des Plaines that the bicycle is not
abandoned.
   C.   If a bicycle is not relocated or claimed by its owner within seven (7)
days of the affixing of a notice of abandonment, that bicycle may be removed
and disposed of by donation, auction, or any other manner deemed appropriate at
the direction of the city manager or his designee. (Ord. M-37-09, 10-5-2009)
CHAPTER 9
VEHICLE IMMOBILIZATION AND IMPOUNDMENT FOR VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
7-9-1: Program Of Vehicle Immobilization And Impoundment
7-9-2: Eligibility For Immobilization And Impoundment
7-9-3: Notice Required, Immobilization Hearings
7-9-4: Fees
7-9-5: Penalty
7-9-1: PROGRAM OF VEHICLE IMMOBILIZATION AND IMPOUNDMENT:
The chief of police, or his designee, is hereby authorized to direct and
supervise a program of vehicle immobilization as provided in this chapter. This
program of vehicle immobilization shall provide for immobilizing any eligible
vehicle upon a public way or private property in public view by placement of a
restraint in such a manner as to prevent its operation, or if the eligible
vehicle is parked or left in violation of any provision of the chapters
contained in this title concerning obstruction of traffic, access or egress
from driveways, alleys, fire lanes, hydrants or stations, or in any place where
it constitutes an obstruction or a hazard, or where it impedes city workers
during such operations as snow removal, the chief of police, or his designee,
may cause the eligible vehicle to be towed to a city vehicle pound or relocated
to a legal parking place and there restrained. (Ord. M-61-03, 9-15-2003)
7-9-2: ELIGIBILITY FOR IMMOBILIZATION AND IMPOUNDMENT:
A vehicle shall be eligible for immobilization, as provided herein, any time
after inclusion of its state registration number or previous or succeeding
state registration number on an immobilization list. A vehicle's state
registration number shall be included on an immobilization list only if:
   A.   The registered owner of the vehicle has accumulated either five (5)
tickets or one hundred dollars ($100.00) or more in parking, compliance or city
license violation complaints in the city on which no payment has been made or
appearance filed with the administrative adjudication hearing division; (Ord.
M-61-03, 9-15-2003)
   B.   At least twenty one (21) days prior to placing the registration plate
number of the vehicle on the immobilization eligibility list, notice of
impending vehicle immobilization has been sent to the registered owner by first
class mail, postage prepaid, at the address of the registered owner recorded
with the secretary of state, or in the case of a vehicle bearing a registration
number of a state other than Illinois, the address of the registered owner
recorded in that state's registry of motor vehicles. (Ord. M-18-04, 4-19-2004)
7-9-3: NOTICE REQUIRED, IMMOBILIZATION HEARINGS:
   A.   The notice required in section
7-9-2 of this chapter shall state the name and address of the registered owner,
the state registration number of the vehicle, the nature of the ordinances
violated and the numbers and issue dates of the outstanding complaints. The
notice shall also advise that a person may challenge the validity of the notice
of impending vehicle immobilization by requesting, in writing, a
preimmobilization hearing.
The registered owner of vehicle, who has received notice of impending
immobilization or whose vehicle's registration number has been placed on the
immobilization list, shall have the right to a preimmobilization hearing to
determine whether the vehicle was properly included on an immobilization list,
if the owner files a written demand for a hearing with the chief of police. A
preimmobilization hearing shall be conducted by the chief of police, or his
designee, within two (2) business days of the receipt of a written demand for
hearing unless otherwise mutually agreed by the parties. A preimmobilization
hearing provided by this section shall not determine the validity of or
otherwise adjudicate any citation or notice of violation issued relative to the
eligible vehicle.
The registered owner shall appear in person and submit evidence which would
conclusively disprove liability, such as the following:
      1.   The person was not the owner or lessee of the vehicle on the date or
dates the notices of violation were issued; or
      2.   The fines or penalties for the violations cited in the report were
paid. (Ord. M-46-96, 9-16-1996)
   B.   Upon immobilization of an eligible vehicle, a notice shall be fixed to
the vehicle in a conspicuous place. Such notice shall warn that the vehicle is
immobilized and that any attempt to move the vehicle may result in its damage.
The notice shall also state that the unauthorized removal of or damage to the
immobilizing restraint is a violation of sections 16-1 and 21-1 of the Illinois
criminal code. The notice shall provide information specifying how release of
the immobilizing restraint may be had. (Ord. M-61-03, 9-15-2003)
   C.   Except where the vehicle is otherwise subject to towing, if the
immobilizing restraint has not been released pursuant to subsection D of this
section within twenty four (24) hours of its placement, the restraint may be
released and the vehicle towed and impounded. (Ord. M-46-96, 9-16-1996)
   D.   The owner of an immobilized vehicle or other authorized person shall be
permitted to secure release of the vehicle by:
      1.   Paying the immobilization and towing and storage fees, if
applicable, specified in section
7-9-4 of this chapter and paying all the fines and penalties, if any, on the
outstanding complaints specified in the notice of impending vehicle
immobilization.
      2.   Payment shall be in the form of currency, traveler's checks, money
order, certified check, Visa, Master Card, or Discover, but no personal checks
shall be acceptable. (Ord. M-61-03, 9-15-2003)
   E.   Within ten (10) days after a vehicle has been impounded, notice of
impoundment shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
registered owner of the vehicle at the address to which the notice specified in
section
7-9-2 of this chapter was mailed. The notice shall state that the owner has the
right to a postimmobilization and posttowing hearing, as provided in subsection
F of this section, and that if the car is not claimed within thirty (30) days
from the date of the notice, the vehicle may be sold or otherwise disposed of
in accordance with this chapter.
   F.   The owner of an immobilized vehicle shall have the right to a
postimmobilization hearing to determine whether the immobilization or any
subsequent towing was erroneous or whether the vehicle was properly included on
an immobilization list, if the owner files a written demand for a hearing with
the chief of police within fourteen (14) days after issuance of the notice
specified in subsection E of this section or within fourteen (14) days of the
immobilization, whichever is later. A postimmobilization hearing shall be
conducted by the chief of police, or his designee, within two (2) business days
of the receipt of a written demand for hearing unless otherwise mutually agreed
by the parties. Failure to request or attend a scheduled postimmobilization
hearing shall be deemed a waiver of the right to a hearing. In the event of
such failure, any amount deposited pursuant to subsection D of this section
shall be forfeited. A postimmobilization hearing provided by this section shall
not determine the validity of or otherwise adjudicate any citation or notice of
violation issued relative to the immobilized vehicle. (Ord. M-46-96, 9-16-1996)
7-9-4: FEES:
The fee for immobilization shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00). The fee for
towing and storage shall be set by the agency providing the service; provided,
that no fees shall be assessed for any immobilization or tow which has been
determined to be erroneous. (Ord. M-46-96, 9-16-1996; amd. 2002 Code)
7-9-5: PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful to relocate or tow any vehicle restrained by an
immobilizing device without the approval of the chief of police. The
unauthorized removal of an immobilized vehicle shall be subject to a penalty as
provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. M-46-96, 9-16-1996; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 10
TRAFFIC ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
7-10-1: Police To Enforce Regulations
7-10-2: Traffic Violation Tickets
7-10-3: Compliance Citations, Delinquent Fines
7-10-4: Stopping, Standing And Parking Fines
7-10-5: Responsibility For Fine
7-10-6: Code Violation Fines
7-10-7: Suspension Of Driving Privileges
7-10-8: Driving Without License
7-10-9: Enforcement When Signs In Place
7-10-1: POLICE TO ENFORCE REGULATIONS:
Police officers of the city are hereby authorized to direct all traffic in
accordance with the provisions of this title or in emergencies as public safety
or convenience may require, and it shall be unlawful for any person to fail or
refuse to comply with any lawful order, signal or direction of a police
officer. Except in case of emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person not
authorized by law to direct or attempt to direct traffic. (2-20-39)
7-10-2: TRAFFIC VIOLATION TICKETS:
   A.   Authority To Issue: Except where otherwise provided in this title,
police officers may issue traffic violation tickets, setting forth the date,
time and place of the offense, the nature of the offense, the make, year,
registration and license numbers of the vehicle involved, the name and address
of the driver where possible, and notifying the offender to appear in court on
a specific time and date, as is designated for hearing such cases. In the event
that the offender does not appear at the time, date and place specified, the
arresting officer may sign a complaint for the issuance of a warrant for the
offender's arrest. (Ord. M-34-94, 3-21-1994)
   B.   Disposition Of Fines: For offenses committed upon the streets or
highways of Des Plaines, or within the limits or jurisdiction of Des Plaines,
fines and penalties recovered under the provisions of this title shall be paid
over to the director of finance and administrative services. (Ord. M-80-97, 12-
15-1997)
7-10-3: COMPLIANCE CITATIONS, DELINQUENT FINES:
   A.   Pursuant to the issuance of a compliance citation, any person who is
accused of a violation of certain sections of the city code, as described in
section
7-2-1 of this title, except a traffic offense for which a traffic violation
ticket is issued and for which a court appearance is required pursuant to the
Illinois supreme court rules, may settle and compromise that compliance
citation by paying to the city a fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) within ten
(10) days from the date such alleged violation was committed or by paying to
the city the sum of forty dollars ($40.00) subsequent to said ten (10) day
period and prior to thirty (30) days thereafter.
   B.   The issuance of compliance citations shall be as a courtesy in lieu of
instituting a prosecution in court for the alleged offense. If the person
accused of the violation does not settle the claim, a uniform traffic complaint
or notice to appear will be issued for that violation and otherwise that person
shall be subject to the general penalties set forth in this code. However,
nothing herein contained shall prevent the filing of a complaint in the first
instance in the circuit court of Cook County and the payment of fines and
costs, which shall be established by the circuit court.
   C.   In the event that payment of a compliance citation fine has not been
made and is submitted to an agency for collection, the additional costs related
to collection agency services shall also be assessed. (Ord. M-80-97, 12-15-
1997)
7-10-4: STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING FINES:
   A.   Amount Of Fines: Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with
any of the provisions of relating to stopping, standing or parking, or to
chapter 7 of this title relating to parking shall be fined as follows:
1, 2 And 3 Hour Parking Zone:  
 Citation                    $10.00
 First mailed notice         15.00
 Second mailed notice        20.00
                             
12 Hour Parking Zone:          
 Citation                    20.00
 First mailed notice         25.00
 Second mailed notice        30.00
                             
Occupying More Than 1 Space:   
 Citation                    20.00
 First mailed notice         25.00
 Second mailed notice        30.00
                             
Backing Into Parking Space:    
 Citation                    20.00
 First mailed notice         25.00
 Second mailed notice        30.00
 
Each meter time period for which the required coin is not deposited in the
parking meter shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   Action On Citation: Any such person violating any of the provisions
specified above may, before the due date specified on the citation:
      1.   Mail the amount of the fine in the self-addressed citation envelope;
      2.   Pay the fine in person at the location shown on the citation
envelope;
      3.   Deliver the citation in person to the records department at the
address shown on the citation envelope, deny they are guilty of the offense
indicated and request a court hearing. (Ord. M-20-91, 6-17-1991; amd. 2002
Code)
   C.   Disposition Of Revenue: The coins required to be deposited in parking
meters as provided herein are hereby levied and assessed as fees to provide for
the proper regulation and control of traffic upon the public streets, and also
the cost of supervision and regulation of the parking of vehicles in the
parking meter zones, and to cover the cost of the purchasing, leasing,
acquiring, installation, operation, maintenance, supervision, regulation and
control of the parking meters herein described.
   D.   Meter Collectors; Bond: The mayor, with the advice and consent of the
city council, shall designate such collectors and methods as are necessary to
properly collect all coins deposited in the meter boxes. The collectors shall
be only such employees as are now or may hereafter be duly bonded in a sum not
less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for the faithful performance of
their duties.
   E.   Backing Into Meter Space Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person to back any vehicle into a metered parking space except where there is
parallel parking along the curb of a city street and there is a designated
zone. (Ord. M-20-91, 6-17-1991)
7-10-5: RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINE:
   A.   Whenever any vehicle shall have been parked in violation of any of the
provisions of any ordinance prohibiting or restricting parking, the person in
whose name that vehicle is registered shall be prima facie responsible for such
violation and subject for the penalty therefor. Any person violating any of the
provisions of this title shall be fined as provided in the general penalty in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. M-13-95, 4-17-1995; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   In the event that payment of a parking fine has not been made and is
submitted to an agency for collection, the additional costs related to
collection agency services shall also be assessed. (Ord. M-13-95, 4-17-1995)
7-10-6: CODE VIOLATION FINES:
Any person violating or failing to comply with any provision of this title
shall be fined in accordance with the respective code violation amount
specified in the following schedule:
   SCHEDULE OF CODE VIOLATION FINES
Code §Violation Citation 21-Day Fine
                 Fine     Final Notice
Code §  Violation                     Citation                    21-Day Fine
                                       Fine                        Final Notice
7-2-1B   Unnecessary noise             25.00                       40.00
7-2-1B   Unnecessary noise/use of horn 25.00                       40.00
7-3-1    "No parking" signs            100.00                      115.00
7-3-2    Parking prohibited in certain
         places:
7-3-2A   Leaving less than 18 feet of  100.00                      115.00
         roadway
7-3-2B1  Leaving less than 10 feet of  100.00                      115.00
         alley clear
7-3-2B2  Parking in alley (except to   100.00                      115.00
         load/unload)
7-3-2C   Parking within 25 feet of     100.00                      115.00
         crosswalk
7-3-2D1  Park semitrailers or tractors 100.00                      115.00
         in residential areas
         Park unattached trailer on    First violation: 100.00
7-3-2D2  public street, except in an
         emergency or as permitted by  Subsequent violation(s): 250.00
         7-3-2D4
         Park semitrailer cab, with or First violation: 100.00
7-3-2D3  without attached trailer,     Subsequent violation(s): 250.00
         overnight on public street
7-3-2E2  Park commercial vehicles in   100.00                      115.00
         residential areas
7-3-2E3  Park commercial vehicle       First violation: 100.00
         overnight on a public street  Subsequent violation(s): 250.00
         Park antique vehicle          First violation: 100.00
7-3-2F2  overnight on a pubic street   Second violation: 150.00
                                       Subsequent violation(s): 200.00
7-3-2H1  Prohibited parking designated 100.00                      115.00
         places as posted
7-3-2H2  No parking on parkways        100.00                      115.00
         Parking to load/unload
7-3-2H3  passengers in front of public 25.00                       40.00
         buildings
7-3-2H4  Park under viaduct            100.00                      115.00
7-3-2H5  Blocking driveway or garage   100.00                      115.00
7-3-3    Parking on wrong side of      100.00                      115.00
         street as posted
7-3-4    Parking limited in designated 100.00                      115.00
         places
7-3-5    Stand/park in marked loading  100.00                      115.00
         zone
         Stand/park more than 12
7-3-5B   inches from curb; right       100.00                      115.00
         wheels to curb
7-3-5C   Unlawful parking:
7-3-5C1  Displaying vehicle for sale   25.00                       40.00
7-3-5C2  Washing, greasing, repairing  100.00                      115.00
         vehicle
7-3-5C3  Advertising with vehicle      25.00                       40.00
7-3-5D   Intercity bus stop            $5,000 - 10,000 per offense -
7-3-6    Stand/park in bus/taxicab     100.00                      115.00
         stand
7-3-8A   Park on snow route during     100.00                      115.00
         snow removal operations
7-3-8A   With vehicle being towed or   150.00                      165.00
         relocated
7-3-8B   Park after 2 inches of        100.00                      115.00
         snowfall
7-3-8C   Parking during snow removal   100.00                      115.00
         after being notified
7-3-9    Residential parking only by   100.00                      115.00
         permit
7-3-10   Posted towaway zone           150.00                      165.00
7-3-11A  Parking within 15 feet of     100.00                      115.00
         fire hydrant
7-3-11B  Parking within 15 feet of     100.00                      115.00
         station driveway
         Following within 500 feet of
7-3-11C1 fire apparatus which is on an 100.00                      115.00
         emergency call
         Parking within 15 feet of
7-3-11C2 fire department sprinkler     100.00                      115.00
         connection
7-3-11D  Parking in fire lane          100.00                      115.00
7-3-12   Street maintenance            25.00                       40.00
7-3-12   With vehicle being towed or   150.00                      165.00
         relocated
         Park in designated handicap
7-3-14A1 space or access area for      250.00                      250.00
         handicap space
7-4-1    Obstructing traffic at        25.00                       40.00
         intersection or crosswalk
7-4-2A   Driving through funeral       25.00                       40.00
         procession
7-4-4    Driving on sidewalks and      25.00                       40.00
         parkways
7-4-9    Obstructing traffic           100.00                      115.00
7-6-1    Private parking lot/private   100.00                      115.00
         space
7-7-3E   Overnight parking             100.00                      115.00
7-7-7    Overtime 1, 2, 3 hour limit   50.00                       115.00
7-7-7    Expired 12 hour meter         100.00                      115.00
         Unlawful parking in space
7-7-7D   restricted for use by         100.00                      115.00
         electric vehicle
7-8-2    Unlawful abandonment          150.00                      165.00
7-10-4E  Backing into space prohibited 100.00                      115.00
         where posted
 
(Ord. T-5-03, 4-21-2003; amd. Ord. T-11-05, 11-7-2005; Ord. M-69-05, 11-21-
2005; Ord. T-6-09, 5-4-2009; Ord. M-8-14, 3-3-2014; Ord. M-9-14, 4-21-2014;
Ord. M-46-19, 12-2-2019; Ord. M-1-22, 1-3-2022; Ord. M-1-23, 2-6- 2023; Ord. M-
13-23, 7-17-2023; Ord. M-20-23, 12-4-2023; Ord. M-1-24, 2-5- 2024; Ord. M-2-24,
1-16-2024)
7-10-7: SUSPENSION OF DRIVING PRIVILEGES:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to establish a procedure for
notification to the secretary of state of driver's license suspensions
authorized by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-306.5.
   B.   Notification By Chief Of Police: The chief of police, or his designee,
shall notify any person who has failed to satisfy any fine or penalty imposed
by final judgment for ten (10) or more violations of city ordinances regulating
standing, parking or compliance regulations, and after exhaustion of judicial
review procedures, that failure to pay the fine or penalty owing within forty
five (45) days of the date of notice will result in the city clerk notifying
the secretary of state that the person's driver's license is eligible for
suspension pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-306.5.
   C.   City Clerk's Certified Report To Secretary Of State: The city clerk is
hereby authorized, upon receipt of a report from the chief of police that a
person notified pursuant to subsection B of this section has failed to pay
fines or penalties imposed by final judgment, to make a certified report to the
secretary of state. Said certified report shall state that the person named in
said report has failed to satisfy the fines and penalties imposed by final
judgments for ten (10) or more violations of the city's standing, parking and
compliance ordinances within forty five (45) days of the date of notice
pursuant to state statute and ordinance and after exhaustion of judicial review
procedures. (Ord. M-57-98, 8-3-1998)
7-10-8: DRIVING WITHOUT LICENSE:
It shall be a violation of this code for a person to drive a motor vehicle if
the person has been issued a driver's license or permit which has expired, and
if the period of expiration is greater than six (6) months; or if the person
has never been issued a driver's license or permit; or is not qualified to
obtain a driver's license or permit because of his age; or if he is driving on
a suspended driver's license. The minimum fine upon conviction or plea of
guilty shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord. M-9-03, 2-18-2003)
7-10-9: ENFORCEMENT WHEN SIGNS IN PLACE:
No provision of this title for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged violation
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen
by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state
that signs are required, such section shall be effective without signs being
erected to give notice thereof. (Ord. T-11-92, 7-6-1992)
CHAPTER 11
VEHICLE SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT FOR VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
7-11-1: Eligibility For Seizure And Impoundment
7-11-2: Conformity With Other Laws And Ordinances; Exceptions
7-11-3: Notice Required
7-11-4: Hearing Procedures
7-11-5: Appeal Procedures
7-11-6: Penalties
7-11-7: Possession Of Seized Vehicle
7-11-1: ELIGIBILITY FOR SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT:
A motor vehicle, operated with the permission, express or implied, of the owner
of record, that is used in connection with the following violations, may be
subject to seizure and impoundment by the city, and the owner of record of said
vehicle shall be liable to the city for an administrative penalty in an amount
not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), if the vehicle is subject to
seizure under current state law or city ordinance, the vehicle creates a danger
to public safety or the efficient movement of traffic, or the vehicle must be
moved from an exposed public location for public convenience. In addition to
any fine imposed, the owner of record shall also be liable for any towing and
storage fees as hereinafter provided. (Ord. M-6-12, 3-5-2012)
   A.   Driving while driver's license, permit, or privilege to operate a motor
vehicle is suspended or revoked, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-303 et
seq., pursuant to the secretary of state actions for the following:
      1.   Mandatory revocation.
      2.   Discretionary revocation.
      3.   Discretionary suspension.
      4.   Parking ticket/tollway suspension.
      5.   Failure to appear suspension.
      6.   Statutory summary suspension.
      7.   Zero tolerance suspension.
   B.   Driving under the influence of alcohol, drugs and/or intoxicating
compounds or any combination thereof, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-501
et seq.
   C.   Fleeing or attempting to elude a peace officer, 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-204 et seq.
   D.   Aggravated fleeing or attempting to elude a peace officer, 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-204.1 et seq.
   E.   Reckless driving, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-503 et seq.
   F.   Street racing, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-506 et seq.
   G.   Sex offenses, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1 et seq.
   H.   Mob action, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/25-1 et seq.
   I.   Firearm offenses to include:
      1.   Unlawful use of weapons, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-1 et
seq.
      2.   Aggravated discharge of a firearm, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
24-1.2 et seq.
      3.   Aggravated discharge of a machine gun or a firearm equipped with a
device designed or used for silencing the report of a firearm, 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/24-1.2-5 et seq.
      4.   Reckless discharge of a firearm, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
24-1.5 et seq.
      5.   Aggravated unlawful use of a weapon, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/24-1.6 et seq.
   J.   Possession of cannabis more than thirty grams (30g), 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 550/4(d), (e), (f), and (g) et seq.
   K.   Illinois controlled substances act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 570/
100 et seq. (Ord. M-2-07, 1-16-2007)
   L.   No valid driver's license, no valid driver's license - never issued and
no valid driver's license - expired more than twelve (12) months (an exception
hereto is no valid driver's license - expired less than 12 months and person
less than 17 years of age operating a motor vehicle in violation of child
curfew act - no tow), 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-101(a) et seq. (Ord.
M-6-12, 3-5-2012)
   M.   Illegal transportation of alcohol/driver, 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-502(a) et seq.
   N.   Unscheduled stop of intercity bus, as defined in Section
7-3-5 .D of this Code. (Ord. M-2-07, 1-16-2007; amd. Ord. M-2-24, 1-16-2024)
7-11-2: CONFORMITY WITH OTHER LAWS AND ORDINANCES; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   The prior section shall not replace or otherwise abrogate any existing
state or federal laws or city ordinance pertaining to vehicle seizure and
impoundment, and these penalties shall be in addition to any penalties that may
be assessed by a court for any criminal violations.
   B.   This chapter shall not apply if the vehicle used in the commission of
any of the offenses listed in section
7-11-1 of this chapter was stolen at the time and the theft was reported to the
appropriate police authorities within twenty four (24) hours after the theft
was discovered.
   C.   Fees for towing and storage of a vehicle under this chapter shall not
exceed those approved by the chief of police for all towers authorized to tow
for the Des Plaines police department. (Ord. M-23-06, 6-5-2006)
7-11-3: NOTICE REQUIRED:
Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a vehicle is
subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this chapter, the police officer
shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a facility authorized by the
city. Before or at the time the vehicle is towed, the police officer shall
notify any person identifying himself as the owner of the vehicle or any person
who is found to be in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation, of the seizure of the vehicle and of owner's right to request a
preliminary vehicle seizure hearing to be conducted under this chapter. If the
owner, passenger, or other licensed driver, with the consent of the owner, is
present at the location of the vehicle prior to the vehicle being towed, the
vehicle shall be released to the owner or other person, provided that that
person may lawfully drive the vehicle. If no lawful driver is present to move
the vehicle, said vehicle shall be impounded pending the completion of the
hearings provided for in this chapter, unless the owner of the vehicle posts
with the city a cash bond in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) and
pays the towing and storage fees. (Ord. M-2-07, 1-16-2007)
7-11-4: HEARING PROCEDURES:
If the owner of record of a vehicle seized pursuant to this chapter desires to
challenge the seizure, said owner must make a request for a hearing within
forty eight (48) hours of the seizure. Said request shall be in writing and
filed with the chief of police or his designee who shall conduct such
preliminary hearing within forty eight (48) hours after receipt of the request
excluding Saturdays, Sundays, or city holidays. All interested persons shall be
given a reasonable opportunity to be heard at the preliminary vehicle
impoundment hearing. The formal rules of evidence will not apply at the hearing
and hearsay evidence shall be admissible only if it is the type commonly relied
upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of their affairs. If, after
the hearing, the chief of police or his designee determines there is probable
cause to believe that the vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment
pursuant to this chapter, he shall order the continued impoundment of the
vehicle as provided in this chapter, unless the owner of the vehicle posts with
the city, by cash or certified check, an administrative penalty in the amount
of five hundred dollars ($500.00), and pays the tower any applicable towing and
storage fees. If the chief of police or his designee determines that there is
no such probable cause, the vehicle will be released without penalty or other
fees. The vehicle owner may appeal the decision of the chief of police by
filing a written request with the police department for an administrative
appeal of the preliminary hearing. (Ord. M-2-07, 1-16-2007)
7-11-5: APPEAL PROCEDURES:
Within seven (7) business days after a vehicle is seized and impounded pursuant
to this chapter, the city shall notify by certified mail, return receipt
requested, the owner of record of the date, time, and location of a hearing to
be conducted, pursuant to this chapter. The hearing will be conducted in
accordance with
title 1, chapter 16 of this code. If a plea of guilty is entered, the case will
be disposed of at that time. If the owner pleads not guilty, a hearing will be
conducted in accordance with
title 1, chapter 16 of this code. All interested persons shall be given a
reasonable opportunity to be heard at the hearing. At any time prior to the
hearing date, the hearing officer may, at the request of either party, direct
witnesses to appear and give testimony at the hearing. The formal rules of
evidence will not apply at the hearing, and hearsay evidence shall be
admissible only if it is the type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent
persons in the conduct of their affairs. If, after the hearing, the hearing
officer determines by a preponderance of evidence that the vehicle was used in
connection with a violation set forth in this chapter, the hearing officer
shall enter an order finding the owner of record of the vehicle civilly liable
to the city for an administrative penalty in an amount not to exceed five
hundred dollars ($500.00) and requiring the vehicle to continue to be impounded
until the owner pays the administrative penalty to the city plus fees to the
tower for the towing and storage of the vehicle. If the owner of record fails
to appear at the hearing, the hearing officer shall enter a default order in
favor of the city. If the hearing officer finds that no such violation
occurred, the hearing officer shall order the immediate return of the owner's
vehicle or cash bond without fees. (Ord. M-2-07, 1-16-2007)
7-11-6: PENALTIES:
If an administrative penalty is imposed pursuant to this chapter, such penalty
shall constitute a debt due and owing to the city. If a cash bond has been
posted pursuant to this section, the bond shall be applied to the penalty. If a
vehicle has been impounded when such a penalty is imposed, the city may seek to
obtain a judgment on the debt and enforce such judgment against the vehicle as
provided by law. Except as provided otherwise in this chapter, a vehicle shall
continue to be impounded until the penalty is paid to the city and any
applicable towing and storage fees, are paid to the tower, in which case
possession of the vehicle shall be given to the person who is legally entitled
to possess the vehicle or the vehicle is sold or otherwise disposed of to
satisfy a judgment to enforce a lien as provided by law. If the administrative
penalty and applicable fees are not paid within thirty (30) days after an
administrative penalty is imposed against an owner of record who defaults by
failing to appear at the hearing, the vehicle shall be deemed unclaimed and
shall be disposed of in the manner provided by law for the disposition of
unclaimed vehicles. In all other cases, if the administrative penalty and
applicable fees are not paid within thirty (30) days after the expiration of
time at which administrative review of the hearing officer's determination may
be sought, or within thirty (30) days after an action seeking administrative
review has been resolved in favor of the city, whichever is applicable, the
vehicle shall be deemed unclaimed and shall be disposed of in the manner
provided by law for the disposition of unclaimed vehicles under the Illinois
vehicle code. (Ord. M-23-06, 6-5-2006)
7-11-7: POSSESSION OF SEIZED VEHICLE:
   A.   Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, no owner, lien
holder, or other person shall be legally entitled to take possession of a
vehicle impounded under this chapter until the administrative penalty and fees
applicable under this chapter have been paid. However, whenever a person with a
lien of record against an impounded vehicle has commenced foreclosure
proceedings, possession of the vehicle shall be given to that person if he or
she agrees in writing to refund to the city the amount of the net proceeds of
any foreclosure sale, less any amounts required to pay all lien holders of
record, not to exceed the administrative penalty, plus the applicable fees.
   B.   For purposes of this chapter, the "owner of record" of a vehicle is the
record titleholder as registered with the secretary of state, state of
Illinois. (Ord. M-23-06, 6-5-2006)
CHAPTER 12
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM
SECTION:
7-12-1: Definitions
7-12-2: Violations
7-12-3: Defenses
7-12-4: Notice Of Violation
7-12-5: Hearing
7-12-6: Nonresidents
7-12-7: Final Determination
7-12-8: Notice Of Determination Of Liability
7-12-9: Notice Of Final Determination
7-12-10: Petitions To Set Aside Determination
7-12-11: Notice Of Impending Driver's License Suspension
7-12-12: Driver's License Suspension
7-12-13: Penalty
7-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM: A device within the city of Des
Plaines with one or more motor vehicle sensors working in conjunction with a
red light signal to produce recorded images of motor vehicles entering an
intersection against a steady or flashing red signal indication in violation of
section 11-306 of the Illinois vehicle code (hereinafter the "code"), 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-306, this title, or similar violation of this
code.
However, no automated traffic law violation shall exist where a motor vehicle
comes to a complete stop and does not enter the intersection, as defined by
section 1-132 of the Illinois vehicle code 1
, during the cycle of the red signal indication unless one or more pedestrians
or bicyclists are present, even if the motor vehicle stops at a point past a
stop line or crosswalk where a driver is required to stop, as specified in
subsection (c) of section 11-306 of the Illinois vehicle code or section
7-4-1 of this title.
DISREGARDING A TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE: Failure to stop and remain stopped
before an intersection that is controlled by a red signal as provided for in
section 11-306 of the code.
NO TURN ON RED: Failure to stop and remain stopped, and not proceeding to turn
right at an intersection controlled by both a sign indicating "No Turn On Red",
or other similar language, and a red signal as provided for in section 11-306
of the code.
RECORDED IMAGES: Images produced by the automated traffic law enforcement
system, which consist of either two (2) or more photographs; two (2) or more
microphotographs; two (2) or more electronic images; or, a video recording
showing the motor vehicle and, on at least one image or portion of the
recording, clearly identifying the registration plate number of the motor
vehicle.
TRAFFIC COMPLIANCE ADMINISTRATOR: The person appointed as such through article
25 of the code and shall have the following additional powers: adopt,
distribute and process automated traffic law violation notices and other
notices required by this chapter, collect money paid as fines and penalties,
operate the automated traffic law enforcement system, and make certified
reports to the secretary of state as required by this chapter. (Ord. M-9-08, 4-
7-2008; amd. Ord. M-62-10, 12-20-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1-132.
7-12-2: VIOLATIONS:
It shall be a violation of this chapter for a vehicle to disregard a traffic
control device or turn on red in violation of section 11-306 of the code. (Ord.
M-9-08, 4-7-2008)
7-12-3: DEFENSES:
The defenses which may be considered by the hearing officer include the
following:
   A.   That the motor vehicle or registration plates of the motor vehicle were
stolen before the violation occurred, and not under the control of or in the
possession of the owner at the time of the violation;
   B.   That the driver of the vehicle passed through the intersection when the
light was red either: 1) in order to yield the right of way to an emergency
vehicle, or 2) as part of a funeral procession.
To demonstrate that the motor vehicle or the registration plates were stolen
before the violation occurred and were not under the control or possession of
the owner at the time of the violation, the owner must submit proof that a
report concerning the stolen motor vehicle or registration plates was filed
with a law enforcement agency in a timely manner. (Ord. M-62-10, 12-20-2010)
7-12-4: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
When the automated traffic law enforcement system records a motor vehicle
entering an intersection in violation of this chapter, the city shall issue a
written notice of violation to the registered owner or lessee of the vehicle,
which shall be delivered by U.S. mail within thirty (30) days after the
Illinois secretary of state notifies the city of the identity of the registered
owner or lessee of the vehicle, and in no event later than ninety (90) days
following the violation. The city shall only be required to notify a lessee if
the leasing company/lessor provides the lessee's name by an affidavit and a
copy of the lease within sixty (60) days of the notice's issuance. If the
driver information is not provided within sixty (60) days, the leasing company/
lessor may be found liable. If any notice to an address is returned as
undeliverable, a second notice shall be sent to the last known address recorded
in a United States post office approved database of the owner or lessee of the
cited vehicle. The second notice shall be made by first class mail, postage
prepaid.
A notice of violation associated with an automated traffic law violation shall
require a review of the associated recorded image by the traffic compliance
administrator, who shall inspect the image and determine whether the motor
vehicle was being operated in violation of section
7-12-2 of this chapter, or whether one of the defenses enumerated in section
7-12-3 of this chapter is visibly applicable upon inspection. Upon
determination that the recorded image captures a violation and that no defense
applies, the notice of violation shall be served upon the registered vehicle
owner in the manner provided for above. The traffic compliance administrator
shall retain a copy of all violation notices, recorded images and other
correspondence mailed to the owner of the vehicle. Each notice of violation
shall constitute evidence of the facts contained in the notice and is
admissible in any proceeding alleging a violation of the above noted statutory
and local provisions and shall be prima facie evidence of a violation, subject
to rebuttal.
The notice of violation shall include the following information:
   A.   The name and address of the registered owner or lessee of the vehicle,
as indicated by the records of the secretary of state, or, if such information
is outdated or unattainable, then the last known address recorded in a United
States post office approved database;
   B.   The make (only if discernable) and registration number of the motor
vehicle involved in the violation;
   C.   The violation charged;
   D.   The location where the violation occurred;
   E.   The date and time of the violation;
   F.   A copy of the recorded images;
   G.   The amount of the civil penalty and the date by which the penalty
should be paid (14 days from the date of issuance), if a hearing is not
requested, and a statement that the payment of the fine shall operate as a
final disposition of the violation;
   H.   A statement that a failure to pay the civil penalty by the date noted
may result in an additional late fee being assessed against the owner or
lessee;
   I.   The amount of the late fee;
   J.   A statement that the failure to pay by the date specified will result
in a final determination of liability and may result in the suspension of
driving privileges for the registered owner of the vehicle;
   K.   A statement that the recorded images constitute prima facie evidence of
a violation;
   L.   A statement that the person may elect to proceed by paying the fine or
challenging the charge in court, by mail or by administrative hearing; and
   M.   A statement of how an administrative hearing may be requested. (Ord. M-
62-10, 12-20-2010)
7-12-5: HEARING:
   A.   Evidence: The owner of a vehicle being operated in violation of this
chapter may request a hearing by the respond-by date on the notice of violation
(14 days from the date of issuance), to challenge the evidence or set forth an
applicable defense. The notice of violation shall constitute evidence of the
facts contained in the notice and is admissible in any administrative
proceeding alleging a violation of this chapter. The notice of violation shall
be prima facie evidence of a violation, subject to rebuttal. Hearings shall be
conducted in accordance with this chapter and
title 1, chapter 16 of this code.
The owner's failure to appear at the hearing will result in a finding of
liability. In the event of a failure to appear, a "findings, decision and
order" letter will be sent to the owner. The owner's failure to pay the amount
by the date specified in that letter will result in a final determination.
   B.   Adjudication By Mail; Procedure:
      1.   Administrative hearings to review materials submitted for the
adjudication by mail of parking and compliance violations cited pursuant to
this chapter shall be conducted in accordance with this chapter.
      2.   The respondent may contest a parking or compliance violation, based
on one or more of the grounds provided in this chapter, by mailing to the
police department the following materials and information: the notice of
violation, the full name, address and telephone number(s) of the respondent;
the make, model and year of the vehicle; any documentary evidence that rebuts
the charge; and a written statement signed by the respondent setting forth
facts relevant to establishing a defense to the charge. A photocopy of any
documentary evidence submitted by any party shall be accepted as the equivalent
of the original document.
      3.   No violation may be established except upon proof by a preponderance
of the evidence; provided, however, that a parking or compliance violation
notice, or a copy thereof, issued in accordance with this chapter shall be
prima facie of the correctness of the facts specified therein.
      4.   Upon review of the materials submitted in accordance with this
section, the hearing officer shall enter a determination of no liability or of
liability and, if liability is found, the amount of the fine. Upon issuance,
such determination shall constitute a final determination for purposes of
judicial review under the administrative review law of Illinois. (Ord. M-62-10,
12-20-2010)
7-12-6: NONRESIDENTS:
Where the registered owner or lessee of the cited vehicle is not a resident of
the city but seeks to contest the merits of the alleged violation, such person
may contest the charges using the same available defenses as stated above, but
rather than attend the administrative hearing, they may submit any and all
documentary evidence to the traffic compliance administrator no later than the
hearing date, together with a notarized written statement reflecting that they
are nonresidents of the city of Des Plaines and setting forth any facts or
defenses that they may deem appropriate. The traffic compliance administrator
shall forward all timely submitted materials to the hearing officer for review
and determination. (Ord. M-9-08, 4-7-2008)
7-12-7: FINAL DETERMINATION:
A final determination of violation liability shall occur following failure to
pay the fine, a failure to request a hearing by the respond-by date, after a
hearing officer's determination of violation liability and the exhaustion of or
failure to exhaust any administrative review procedures provided by this code.
Failure to appear at a hearing to contest the alleged violation in the time and
manner specified in a prior mailed notice, the hearing officer's determination
may result in the entry of a default judgment. Appeal may be made to the
circuit court of Cook County on any final determination as provided for by the
administrative review act. (Ord. M-9-08, 4-7-2008)
7-12-8: NOTICE OF DETERMINATION OF LIABILITY:
If the registered owner fails to pay or contest the notice of violation within
fourteen (14) days, a notice of determination of liability will be sent to the
owner indicating that a fine in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00) is
due to the city. The notice will also state that the owner can petition the
city to set aside the determination of liability before it becomes final. If
the owner does not pay the one hundred dollars ($100.00) as specified in the
notice or petition the city to set aside the determination, within thirty five
(35) days, a notice of final determination will be sent to the owner indicating
that the owner has exhausted all challenge options and the one hundred dollar
($100.00) fine, plus a late payment penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00),
is a debt due and owing to the city and must be paid within thirty five (35)
days. (Ord. M-62-10, 12-20-2010)
7-12-9: NOTICE OF FINAL DETERMINATION:
A notice of final determination shall be sent following the conclusion of
administrative proceedings. The notice of final determination shall include the
following information:
   A.   A statement that the unpaid fine is a debt due and owing to the city of
Des Plaines.
   B.   A warning that a failure to pay any fine due and owing to the city of
Des Plaines within fourteen (14) days may result in a petition to the circuit
court of Cook County to have the unpaid fine rendered as a judgment or may
result in the suspension of the person's driver's license for failure to pay
fines or penalties for five (5) or more violations under this chapter. (Ord. M-
9-08, 4-7-2008)
7-12-10: PETITIONS TO SET ASIDE DETERMINATION:
A petition to set aside determination of an automated traffic law violation
must be filed with or mailed to the traffic control administrator within twenty
one (21) days of the date of mailing of the notice of determination of
liability. The grounds for the petition may include, but are not limited to:
   A.   The person was not the owner or lessee of the cited vehicle on the date
the violation notice was issued;
   B.   The person having already paid the fine for the violation in question;
and
   C.   Excusable failure to appear at or request a new date for a hearing.
Upon receipt of a timely petition to set aside the determination of liability,
the hearing officer shall review the petition to determine if cause has been
shown to set aside the determination. If cause has been shown, the city shall
forward the petitioner a new hearing date on which the petitioner must appear
to present his case. The city shall notify the petitioner of the hearing
officer's decision to grant a hearing or deny the petition within fourteen (14)
days of the city's receipt. (Ord. M-9-08, 4-7-2008)
7-12-11: NOTICE OF IMPENDING DRIVER'S LICENSE SUSPENSION:
A notice of impending driver's license suspension shall be sent to the person
liable for any fine or penalty that remains due and owing on five (5) or more
violations of this chapter. The notice of impending driver's license suspension
shall state the following information:
   A.   The failure to pay the fine owing within forty five (45) days of the
notice's date will result in the city of Des Plaines notifying the secretary of
state that the person is eligible for initiation of suspension proceedings
under section 6-306.5 of the code;
   B.   A statement that the person may obtain a copy of the original ticket
imposing a fine by sending a self-addressed, stamped envelope to the city along
with a request for the copy.
The notice of impending driver's license suspension shall be sent by first
class mail, postage prepaid, to the address recorded with the secretary of
state or, if any notice to that address is returned as undeliverable, to the
last known address recorded in a United States post office approved database.
(Ord. M-9-08, 4-7-2008)
7-12-12: DRIVER'S LICENSE SUSPENSION:
The traffic compliance administrator, by certified report, shall request that
the secretary of state suspend the driving privileges of an owner of a
registered vehicle who has failed to pay any fine or penalty due and owing as a
result of five (5) automated traffic violations. The report shall be certified
and contain the following:
   A.   The name, last known address as recorded with the secretary of state,
as provided by the lessor of the cited vehicle at the time of lease, or as
recorded in a United States post office approved database if any notice sent
under this chapter is returned as undeliverable, and driver's license number of
the person who failed to pay the fine or penalty and the registration number of
any vehicle known to be registered to such person in a state;
   B.   The name of the municipality making the report pursuant to this
section; and
   C.   A statement that a notice of impending driver's license suspension has
been sent to the person named in the report at the address recorded with the
secretary of state or at the last address known to the lessor of the cited
vehicle at the time of the lease or, if any notice sent under this chapter is
returned as undeliverable at the last known address recorded in a United States
post office approved database; the date on which such notice was sent; and
address to which such notice was sent.
The traffic compliance administrator shall notify the secretary of state
whenever a person named in the certified report has paid the previously
recorded fine or penalty or whenever the municipality determines that the
original report was in error. A certified copy of such notification shall also
be given upon request and at no additional charge to the person named therein.
Any person receiving notice from the secretary of state that their driving
privileges may be suspended at the end of a specified period may challenge the
accuracy of the certified report prepared by the traffic compliance
administrator. The person shall, within seven (7) days after having received
notice from the secretary of state, request an opportunity to speak with the
traffic compliance administrator to challenge the accuracy of the certified
report. If the traffic compliance administrator determines that the original
report was in error due to the fact that the person challenging the report was
not the owner or lessee of the vehicle or that the person has already paid
their fine for the five (5) or more automated traffic violations, the traffic
compliance administrator shall immediately notify the secretary of state of
such error in a subsequent certified report. (Ord. M-62-10, 12-20-2010)
7-12-13: PENALTY:
Any person violating this chapter shall be fined one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for each offense. Failure to pay the original fine thirty five (35) days after
the issuance of the notice of final determination shall result in an additional
one hundred dollar ($100.00) late payment fine. (Ord. M-9-08, 4-7-2008)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Sidewalk Construction
8-1-2: Repair Of Sidewalks
8-1-3: Street Maintenance Activities
8-1-4: Obstructions On Public Ways
8-1-5: Work In The City Right-Of-Way
8-1-6: Protection Of New Pavements
8-1-7: Railroads
8-1-8: Prohibited Acts, Conditions
8-1-9: Vacation Of Public Streets And Alleys
8-1-10: Underground Public Utilities
8-1-11: Snow And Ice On Public Rights-Of-Way And Handicapped Parking Spaces
8-1-12: Alleys; Repaving, Resurfacing And Reconstructing
8-1-13: Containers In Rights-Of-Way
8-1-1: SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Specifications:
      1.   All sidewalks shall be constructed of portland cement concrete in
accordance with the City engineering design standards and the Illinois
Department of Transportation "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction". (2002 Code)
      2.   Except when a subdivision variation on sidewalks has been granted by
the City Council pursuant to section
13-2-6 of this Code, the owner of property adjoining any street who builds any
new building on vacant property or who demolishes an existing building and
builds any new building on the property, shall install sidewalks on the
frontage except as waived by a majority vote of the City Council. The City
Council shall take into account the nature of the proposed building, the
existing uses and sidewalks in the vicinity and the probable effect of the
proposed building on the vicinity in making a determination to waive the
installation of sidewalks. The sidewalks shall be constructed according to the
detail requirements of the Engineering Department. (Ord. M-31-76, 8-16-1976;
amd. 2002 Code)
      3.   In circumstances where the sidewalk may not need to be immediately
constructed, the Director of Engineering shall so notify the City Council. If
the City Council is in concurrence, an amount equal to five dollars ($5.00) per
square foot for the year 2003, with an annual increase of five percent (5%),
shall be paid by the applicant and deposited with the Finance Department. Such
amount, if not utilized for sidewalk construction within seven (7) years of
deposit, shall lapse to the General Fund of the City. (Ord. M-14-03, 4-21-2003)
   B.   Ramped Sidewalks Required: All new curbs and sidewalks and all existing
curbs or sidewalks which are a part of any new construction or reconstruction
at the intersections of sidewalks and streets, sidewalks and alleys and at
other points of major pedestrian flow, shall comply with the Illinois
Accessibility Code. Details for placement and construction of the ramped
sidewalks shall be under the direction of the City Engineer. (Ord. M-2-76, 2-5-
1976; amd. 2002 Code)
8-1-2: REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS:
   A.   All owners or agents of owners with property abutting and fronting upon
any plaza, street or alley within the corporate limits of the City, are
required to keep the public sidewalks immediately abutting their property in
good order and repair, and in safe condition.
   B.   All owners or agents of owners with property abutting and fronting upon
any plaza, street or alley within the corporate limits of the City, have a duty
to give notice to the City of any public sidewalks immediately abutting or
fronting their property which are defective, in disrepair or in unsafe
condition. (Ord. M-10-87, 3-16-1987)
8-1-3: STREET MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES:
To facilitate street maintenance activities within the City (i.e., including,
but not limited to, street sweeping, leaf pick up and nonemergency utility
repairs), the Director of Public Works or his designee shall post "No Parking"
signs in the areas selected for street maintenance activities at least twelve
(12) hours prior to any activity taking place. (Ord. M-52-98, 7-6-1998)
8-1-4: OBSTRUCTIONS ON PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Obstructions Prohibited:
      1.   Misdemeanor Offense: Any person who shall encumber or obstruct, any
street, alley or other public place in the city, by placing therein any
building materials or any article or thing whatsoever, without having first
obtained written permission from the director of community development, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      2.   Buildings: No person shall erect or place any building, in whole or
in part, upon any street, alley, sidewalk or public ground, within the city.
(1956 Code ch. 8 art. II)
   B.   Removal: The city engineer, upon informing city council, is hereby
authorized to cause any obstruction, encroachment or other thing which may be
in violation of the provisions of this chapter, to be removed within a
reasonable time after notice served upon the person causing same, or in case
the person cannot be found, then summarily to remove the same and the party
causing the violation shall pay all expenses and costs of the removal in
addition to the penalties prescribed 1
. (Ord. M-57-83, 10-17-1983)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-80-13, 5/11-84-1.
8-1-5: WORK IN THE CITY RIGHT OF WAY:
   A.   Permit Required: It is unlawful for any person or private contractor to
perform any work, including, without limitation, any excavation or tunneling,
in, on, under, or above any city right of way, including, without limitation,
any city street, alley, or sidewalk, without first obtaining a permit for such
work.
   B.   Exceptions To Permit Requirement: Contractors performing work for the
city of Des Plaines department of public works and engineering and, subject to
the requirements of
title 9, chapter 5 of this code, public utility companies are not required to
obtain a permit pursuant to this section to perform work in, on, under, or
above city rights of way.
   C.   Application For Permit; Qualifications: Applications for such a permit
shall be made to the building official, and shall state the location of the
intended work, the size and purpose of such work, the person who will perform
the work, the name of the person for whom the work is to be performed, and any
other information required by the building official.
   D.   Permit Fee: No permit shall be issued pursuant to this section without
the payment to the city of a fee in an amount determined in accordance with
title 10, chapter 13 of this code.
   E.   Compliance With Conditions And Regulations: The director of public
works and engineering is authorized to promulgate standards, rules, and
regulations for any work performed in, on, under, or above any city right of
way to implement the provisions of this code and to provide for the public
safety. All work performed in, on, under, or above city rights of way must
comply with the terms and conditions of the application and permit authorizing
the work and with all standards, rules, or regulations promulgated by the
director of public works and engineering. Any person who performs, or causes to
be performed, such work shall be responsible for bearing all costs of complying
with those terms, conditions, standards, rules or regulations.
   F.   Restoration; Security:
      1.   Any person who receives a permit pursuant to this section shall, not
more than ten (10) days after disturbing, damaging, or destroying any part of
any city right of way or any other city property as a result of performing work
on, in, under, or over a city right of way, restore and repair those parts of
the city rights of way and other city property to a condition at least as good
as that existing prior to the work performed pursuant to the permit, as
determined by, and to the satisfaction of, the director of public works and
engineering. This restoration and repair work shall be performed using
materials and methods approved in advance and in writing by the director of
public works and engineering. The time period provided in this section for the
completion of restoration and repair work may be extended by the director of
public works and engineering for good cause shown.
      2.   No permit shall be issued pursuant to this section until the
applicant establishes a security fund with the city in an amount reasonably
estimated by the director of public works and engineering to be the cost of: a)
completing all work necessary to restore and repair all parts of any city right
of way and any other city property as required by this section, and b) all
expenses that may reasonably be incurred by the city if the permittee fails to
perform the restoration and repair work required by this section. The security
fund may be in the form of cash, a surety bond in a form acceptable to the
city, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form acceptable to the city.
The city may withdraw from the security fund amounts necessary to reimburse the
city for expenses incurred by the city as a result of the permittee's failure
to complete any restoration and repair work required by this section to the
satisfaction of the director of public works and engineering. Prior to
withdrawing any amount from the security fund, the city shall give the
permittee fourteen (14) days' advance written notice stating the city's
intention to exercise its withdrawal rights and the reason therefor. Upon
acceptance by the city of the work authorized by the permit and of the
restoration and repair work required by this section, the permittee shall be
entitled to the return of the security fund, or the portion thereof that
remains on deposit after any withdrawals by the city, within a reasonable time
after an account is taken to determine all offsets necessary to compensate the
city for any failure by the permittee to complete the restoration and repair
work as required by this section. If the permittee's permit is revoked, the
security fund shall become the property of the city to the extent necessary to
compensate the city for all reasonable costs, loss, or damage that may be
incurred by the city as a result of the permit revocation; provided, however,
that any amounts in excess of those costs shall be refunded to the permittee.
   G.   Excavations To Be Barricaded: Whoever shall dig or cause to be dug any
excavation in or adjoining any public right of way shall erect a barricade and
shall illuminate the excavation area in accordance with all applicable
regulations, standards, and guidelines promulgated or published by the Illinois
department of transportation.
   H.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this chapter, in
addition to any other penalty provided for in this code, shall be fined as
provided in the general penalty section of this code for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues. (Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-2014)
8-1-6: PROTECTION OF NEW PAVEMENTS:
   A.   Closing Of Streets; Barricades: It is hereby made the duty of the
director of public works or his designee, upon any contemplated street pavement
or street improvement in the city, immediately when work on such improvement
starts, to close all streets, roads, highways, public ways and alleys affected
by the improvement.
He shall, as soon as practicable after the work commences, establish blockades
at appropriate points for the purpose of keeping pedestrians and traffic off of
the contemplated new pavements and cause a suitable sign to be fastened thereto
upon which shall be printed in figures of conspicuous size the following
legend:
Closed by order of the city of Des Plaines.
Roads, streets or public highways when so closed by the director, shall be
deemed closed to all traffic of every kind upon the street or pavement being
built.
   B.   Driving Past Barricades: It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person
to walk upon, drive, propel or operate any wagon or motor vehicle upon any
newly completed roadway, street or alley, or to do any other act or thing that
may or might injure, damage or deface the newly completed pavement when the
same has been closed under the provisions of subsection A of this section 1
. (1956 Code ch. 8 art. III; amd. 2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-80-1.
8-1-7: RAILROADS:
   A.   Tracks At Grade: All railroad companies and the owners of any railroad
track shall raise or lower their railroad track lying within the corporate
limits of the city so as to conform to any grade which may at any time be
established for any street, alley or highway by ordinance of the mayor and city
council. Where the tracks run across or lengthwise of any street, alley or
highway, they shall keep their railroad tracks on a level with the surface and
keep the streets in good order so that the tracks may be crossed at any place
in the street, alley or highway; and where they cross any street, they shall
keep the same planked between the rails. All railroad companies and the owner
of any railroad track shall make, keep open and keep in repair ditches and side
drains, sewers and culverts along and under their railroad tracks so that
filthy and stagnant water cannot stand on their grounds or right of way, and in
such manner that the natural drainage of the adjacent property shall not be
impeded. (1956 Code ch. 27)
   B.   Obstruction Of Highway At Grade Crossings:
      1.   Obstruction Prohibited: It is unlawful for a rail carrier to permit
any train, railroad car or engine to obstruct public travel at a railroad
highway grade crossing for a period in excess of ten (10) minutes, except where
such train or railroad car is continuously moving or cannot be moved by reason
of circumstances over which the rail carrier has no reasonable control. Under
no circumstances will a moving train be stopped for the purposes of issuing a
citation related to this subsection. However, no employee acting under the
rules or orders of the rail carrier or its supervisory personnel may be
prosecuted for a violation of this subsection B1.
      2.   Punishment For Obstruction Of Grade Crossing: Any rail carrier
violating subsection B1 of this section shall be guilty of a petty offense and
fined not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) if the duration of the obstruction is in excess of ten (10)
minutes but no longer than fifteen (15) minutes. If the duration of the
obstruction exceeds fifteen (15) minutes, the violation shall be a business
offense and the following fines shall be imposed: if the duration of the
obstruction is in excess of fifteen (15) minutes but no longer than twenty (20)
minutes, the fine shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00); if the duration of
the obstruction is in excess of twenty (20) minutes but no longer than twenty
five (25) minutes, the fine shall be seven hundred dollars ($700.00); if the
duration of the obstruction is in excess of twenty five (25) minutes but no
longer than thirty (30) minutes, the fine shall be nine hundred dollars
($900.00); if the duration of the obstruction is in excess of thirty (30)
minutes but no longer than thirty five (35) minutes, the fine shall be one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) plus an additional five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each five (5) minutes of obstruction in excess of thirty five (35) minutes.
(Ord. T-6-02, 9-16-2002)
   C.   Switches In Streets: No frog, switch rail or any part of a side track
or turnout shall be placed in or across any portion of any public street
without special permission from the mayor and city council; nor shall what is
known as a "running switch" be permitted along or across a public street. (Ch.
27, 1956 Code)
8-1-8: PROHIBITED ACTS, CONDITIONS:
   A.   Injury To Official Marks: No person shall purposely break, change,
remove, deface or otherwise injure any stake, post or stone, placed or set to
designate the corner or line of any lot, block, land or street, or show the
elevation of any street or sidewalk.
   B.   Injury To Street Signs, Lights: It shall be unlawful for any person to
carelessly or maliciously break, deface, disturb, interfere with, carry away or
in any way injure or destroy any street sign, standard, traffic signal or any
electric lamp, or any part of, or appurtenance to any lamp, or light of any
kind, used in, upon or about any street, alley or public place, or carelessly
or maliciously break, injure, destroy or in any manner disturb or interfere
with any telephone or telegraph wire, or any appurtenance thereto, at any place
within the city 1
. (Ch. 10, 1956 Code)
   C.   Blocking Gutters, Culverts, Sewers, Hydrants: No person shall stop or
obstruct the passage of water in any street gutter, public sewer, drain,
culvert, water pipe or hydrant laid or placed in the city. Property owner shall
be responsible for keeping culvert free of debris and maintaining the grass in
the culvert area (i.e., similar to parkway areas).
Any replacement of, extension or alteration to existing culverts shall require
the approval of the city engineer and the procurement of a permit from the
director of community development. (Ord. M-22-89, 7-17-1989)
   D.   Blocking Sidewalks: It shall be unlawful to obstruct or block or impede
passage upon any portion of any street or sidewalk, or to erect or place upon
any portion of any street, sidewalk or parkway any booth, stand, tables or
chairs, or any other obstruction without first obtaining a permit as allowed by
this code. The director of community development shall issue permits under this
section, and shall establish rules regulating the size, type, appearance, and
placement of any obstructions on any street or sidewalk. (Ord. M-38-01, 7-16-
2001)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-80-10.
8-1-9: VACATION OF PUBLIC STREETS AND ALLEYS:
Whenever the corporate authorities determine by affirmative vote of at least
three-fourths (3/4) of the aldermen then holding office that the public
interest will be subserved by vacating any street or alley, or part thereof,
within the city of Des Plaines, they may vacate that street or alley, or part
thereof, by so adopting an ordinance that determines which owner or owners of
any real property abutting any portion of such street or alley so vacated shall
acquire title upon vacation to all or any portion of the street or alley being
vacated.
   A.   The ordinance shall not become effective until such owner or owners
shall pay compensation to the city of Des Plaines in an amount which, in the
judgment of the corporate authorities, shall be the fair market value of the
property acquired or of the benefits which will accrue to them by reason of
that vacation. The ordinance shall also reserve to the city of Des Plaines or
to any public utility or both, as the case may be, owning such facilities, such
property, rights of way and easements as, in the judgment of the corporate
authorities, are necessary or desirable for continuing public service by means
of those facilities and for the maintenance, renewal and reconstruction
thereof.
   B.   The determination of the corporate authorities that the nature and
extent of the public use or public interest to be subserved is such as to
warrant the vacation of any street or alley, or part thereof, is conclusive.
   C.   Whenever an owner of property abutting upon any street or alley
proposes to have the same or any part thereof vacated, said owner shall file
with the office of the director of community development an application for
vacation. A filing fee for each application of two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) shall be paid therewith in addition to a cash deposit of eight
hundred dollars ($800.00). The applicant shall be responsible to pay the actual
cost of an appraisal which may be ordered by the corporate authorities to
determine the value of the street or alley proposed to be vacated. The eight
hundred dollar ($800.00) deposit shall be credited toward the actual cost of
the appraisal fee and any excess amount above the actual cost shall be returned
to the applicant or the applicant shall pay any additional amount above the
eight hundred dollars ($800.00) to the City. (Ord. M-14-05, 5-16-2005)
8-1-10: UNDERGROUND PUBLIC UTILITIES:
In every building or structure hereafter erected, whenever the property being
built on is zoned to the R-4 Central Core Multiple-Family District or C-
5 Central Business District or is part of a planned unit development, as
provided in the Zoning Code of the City, all utility distribution lines for
telephone, gas, electric and cable service to be installed shall be placed
underground within easements or dedicated public ways. The installation of such
facilities shall be made in compliance with the applicable orders, rules,
regulations and laws of the State of Illinois and the agencies thereof. (Ord.
M-27-75, 8-4-1975; amd. 2002 Code)
8-1-11: SNOW AND ICE ON PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND HANDICAPPED PARKING SPACES:
   A.   Removal Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, place
or allow to remain in or upon any public right-of-way including, but not
limited to, sidewalks, aprons and other paved areas, any material or substance
including, but not limited to, snow and ice, injurious to person or property or
which could cause, by its accumulation, injury to person or property.
   B.   Commercial Properties:
      1.   Every owner, lessee, tenant or occupant of any commercial property
in the City that abuts any public right-of-way must comply with the following:
         a.   Snow and ice must be removed from any sidewalk abutting such
property and any sidewalk ramps intersecting such sidewalks, creating a clear
path at least thirty six inches (36") wide to allow pedestrian and wheelchair
passage; provided, however, that all reasonable efforts should be made to clear
a path the full width of the sidewalk.
         b.   Accumulations of two (2) or more inches of snow, as measured by
the National Weather Service at O'Hare International Airport, and/or any amount
of ice should be removed as soon as practicable, but must be removed within
twenty four (24) hours after the weather event ends.
         c.   If snow or ice on the sidewalk is frozen so hard that it cannot
be removed without damage to the pavement, then, within twenty four (24) hours
after the weather event ends, sand, abrasive material or other products made
for the purpose of mitigating slipping hazards and preventing the accumulation
of ice must be strewn on the sidewalk abutting the property, and, as soon
thereafter as the weather shall permit, the sidewalk must be thoroughly
cleaned.
      2.   If the owner, lessee, tenant or occupant of any commercial property
fails to remove or abate snow or ice in the manner, and within the timeframes,
set forth in subsection B.1 of this section, in addition to the penalty set
forth in subsection D of this section, the City may, but is not obligated to,
proceed to have such snow removed, keeping an account of the expense of such
removal. The City may charge the owner, lessee, tenant or occupant an amount
sufficient to defray the entire cost of any work performed pursuant to this
section, plus a twenty-five percent (25%) administrative fee, plus a minimum
mobilization fee of two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00), and if the amount
so charged is not paid by the owner, lessee, tenant or occupant following a
demand in writing by the City for such payment, the City may record a lien
against the property or take such other action(s) as permitted by law and that
the City Manager deems appropriate including, but not limited to, listing the
costs with the Director of Finance as a fine or fee due to the City within the
meaning of subsection
4-2-11C and section
15-7-8 of this Code.
   C.   Unlawful Deposit Of Snow: It shall be unlawful for any person or for
any agent thereof, to:
      1.   Plow or otherwise remove accumulated snow from a private parking lot
or drive and deposit same on a public right-of-way, including, but not limited
to, sidewalks, aprons and other paved areas. For purposes of this section,
"deposit" shall include any action to remove snow from a private lot, drive
including, but not limited to, sidewalks, aprons and other paved areas, which
results in the leaving of more than a negligible amount of snow upon the public
right-of-way including, but not limited to, sidewalks, aprons and other paved
areas.
      2.   Plow snow from a private driveway or parking lot and deposit same on
a City street including, but not limited to, sidewalks, aprons and other paved
areas, in such a manner so as to decrease the drivable width of any such street
or decrease the width of any sidewalk, apron or other paved areas to such an
extent as to render them unsafe or not passable by pedestrians.
      3.   Obstruct, harass, prevent or otherwise interfere with any employee
of the City engaged in snow removal service or to obstruct, cause damage to or
otherwise interfere with any City owned or leased vehicle used in conjunction
with snow removal services.
      4.   Plow or pile snow onto any portion of a marked handicapped parking
space on public or private property.
   D.   Penalties:
      1.   Any person violating subsection A or C of this section shall be
subject to the general penalty set forth in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
      2.   Any person violating subsection B of this section shall be subject
to a fine for each offense during the then-current winter season as follows:
         a.   For the first offense, a fine of two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00);
         b.   For the second offense, a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00);
and
         c.   For the third offense, a fine of seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00).
      3.   Each day that a violation of this section is permitted to exist
shall constitute a separate offense. Citations for violations of this section
may be issued to the owner of the property involved, to the industry or firm
which acts as an agent for any such owner, and to a lessee, tenant or occupant
of any commercial property involved. (Ord. M-2-19, 1-22-2019; amd. Ord. M-10-
22, 4-18-2022)
8-1-12: ALLEYS; REPAVING, RESURFACING AND RECONSTRUCTING:
In conjunction with a planned unit development, a subdivision, or the
construction of a multi-family apartment, townhome, or condominium building,
which will use, as a secondary access, a public alley in the City, the
developer or builder, as the case may be, shall as a condition for the approval
of their development or building plans be obligated to repave, resurface, or
reconstruct the alley as the City Director of Engineering may determine, based
on the condition of the alley. (Ord. M-21-06, 5-15-2006)
8-1-13: CONTAINERS IN RIGHTS-OF-WAY:
   A.   Permit Required: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
cause or permit any container to be delivered and left at any location within
any public street, alley, or other public right-of-way (or on private rights-
of-way within which the City is authorized to provide police protection or fire
protection services) without first obtaining a permit from the City in
accordance with this section. For the purpose of this section, "container"
means any container, including dumpsters and modular storage devices, designed
to be delivered to a location for the temporary outdoor storage of waste or
personal property and to be subsequently removed for disposal or storage at
another location.
No permit shall be issued pursuant to this section unless, in the judgment of
the Director of Community and Economic Development, the applicant demonstrates
that delivery of a container to a location on private property improved with a
hard paved surface, or another surface deemed appropriate by the Director of
Community and Economic Development, is not feasible.
   B.   Permit Application Process:
      1.   A person desiring a permit to locate a container in a right-of-way
must complete an application on forms provided by the Department of Community
and Economic Development. The application must state why it is not feasible to
deliver and leave the container on private property improved with a hard paved
surface or another surface deemed appropriate by the Director of Community and
Economic Development.
      2.   Upon proper application and payment of a permit fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00), the Director of Community and Economic Development may issue
a permit allowing the applicant to deliver and leave a container in a right-of-
way, subject to the requirements and restrictions set forth in this section,
for a period not to exceed thirty (30) consecutive days. The Director of
Community and Economic Development may issue an administrative extension of one
additional fifteen (15) day period upon application by the applicant. A
separate permit is required under this section for each container proposed to
be delivered and left in a right-of-way, and a new permit must be obtained if a
permittee proposes to change the location of a container for which a permit has
been previously issued.
      3.   A copy of each permit issued pursuant to this section shall be
provided to the City's Police, Fire, Public Works and Engineering, and
Community and Economic Development Departments, as soon as practicable after
such permit is issued, so that those departments will be advised of the
issuance of the permit and the location of the container.
   C.   Barricades Required: At all times that a container is left in a right-
of-way pursuant to a permit issued in accordance with this section, the
permittee must install and maintain a minimum of two (2) barricades with
flashing lights of a type and at locations approved by the Director of Public
Works and Engineering to alert traffic to the location of the container. If a
permittee does not install and maintain the barricades required by this
subsection, the City shall have the right to install and maintain the required
barricades and charge the permittee with all costs incurred by the City for the
installation and maintenance of the barricades.
   D.   Restrictions: A permit shall not be issued pursuant to this section
unless the proposed container and location satisfy all of the following
requirements:
      1.   The container shall not be located within any restricted or
prohibited parking area;
      2.   The container shall not be located in front of any property without
the consent of the property owner;
      3.   The container shall not block ingress to or egress from any
property;
      4.   The container shall not obstruct the safe passage of vehicular or
pedestrian traffic within the right-of-way;
      5.   The container shall not be located within twenty feet (20') of any
fire hydrant;
      6.   The container shall not be located within twenty feet (20') of an
intersection with another street, alley, or driveway other than a driveway
serving the property benefited by the container;
      7.   The container shall be located not more than twelve inches (12")
from the curb or, where no curb exists, the edge of the paved surface of the
right-of-way on which the container is located; and
      8.   The container shall bear reflective stripes or other markings that
enhance visibility of the container by motorists and pedestrians.
   E.   Joint And Several Liability:
      1.   The applicant for a permit for a container, and the supplier or
hauler delivering the container, shall be jointly and severally liable for all
costs and liability caused by the container, including, without limitation,
costs and liability arising from debris falling from the container and any
damage to the surface of the street, alley or curb.
      2.   A permittee pursuant to this section must maintain all containers
and the area around the containers free and clear of ice and snow. The City is
not responsible for the removal of ice and snow at or around any container, nor
is the City responsible for any ice and snow that accumulates on and around a
container as a result of the normal operations of street clearing processes.
      3.   If the City determines, in its sole discretion, that a traffic,
pedestrian, health or public welfare or other hazard exists, the City may
require any permittee to remove a container within twenty four (24) hours after
receipt of written notice from the City. Each day that any container remains
within a public right-of-way after the twenty four (24) hour notice period has
expired shall be a separate violation of this section.
      4.   If the City determines, in its sole discretion, that a container
must be immediately removed from a public right-of- way to protect the public
health and safety, the City may cause the container to be removed and charge
the permittee with all costs incurred by the City for removal of the container.
   F.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be subject to a fine as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this Code and, in addition thereto, shall be responsible and make full
payment for any damage to City property. Citations for violations of this
section may be issued to the owner of the property benefited by a container and
also to any person or entity that acts as an agent for the owner. (Ord. M-7-16,
3-7-2016)
CHAPTER 2
DRIVEWAYS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Driveway Construction (Rep. by Ord. M-47-07, 8-20-2007)
8-2-2: Permit Requirements
8-2-3: Conditions Of Permit; Revocation
8-2-1: DRIVEWAY CONSTRUCTION:
(Rep. by Ord. M-47-07, 8-20-2007)
8-2-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall hereafter construct, repair, resurface
or enlarge a driveway without first having obtained a permit therefor from the
director of community development; provided, that no permit for a driveway more
than eighteen feet (18') in width at the sidewalk with a three foot (3') flare
to the curb cut on either side in districts zoned for residences and apartments
shall be granted without approval by the city council, nor shall any permit for
a driveway more than thirty five feet (35') in width in districts zoned for
commercial or industrial purposes be granted without approval by the city
council. (Ord. M-9-90, 3-19-1990)
   B.   Application For Permit: Application for a permit for a driveway shall
be made to the director of community development and shall contain the name and
address of the person making application and the proposed location and
dimensions of the driveway. Plans and specifications of the driveway shall
accompany the paid application. (Ord. M-61-79, 12-3-1979)
   C.   Permit Fees: The fees for the issuance of driveway permits shall be in
such amount as shall be established from time to time by resolution of the city
council. (Ord. M-55-76, 12-6-1976)
8-2-3: CONDITIONS OF PERMIT; REVOCATION:
   A.   Revocation, Driveway Removal Required: Permits required by this chapter
shall contain conditions providing as follows: That the same may be revoked by
the mayor, or by an order duly passed by the city council and signed by the
mayor, at any time without consent of the grantee in which case the authority
and privileges granted shall thereupon cease and terminate; that upon the
termination by revocation, expiration or otherwise of the authority, rights and
privileges granted by the permit, the driveway therein authorized shall be
removed and the sidewalk and parkway space where the same shall have been
located shall be restored to its proper condition to the satisfaction of the
director of community development, so that the portion of the sidewalk and
parkway space used for the driveway shall be safe for public travel and in the
same condition as the remaining portion of the sidewalk and parkway space, at
the sole expense of the grantee therein, without cost or expense of any kind
whatsoever to the city; provided, that in the event of the failure, neglect or
refusal on the part of the grantee to remove the driveway when directed so to
do, the city may proceed to remove same and charge the expense thereof to the
grantee. (Ord. M-61-79, 12-3-1979)
   B.   Compliance Required: If any person obtaining or possessing a permit
under the terms of this chapter shall at any time fail or neglect to comply
with the provisions herein prescribed, then such permit may be revoked by the
city council. (1956 Code §9-3)
CHAPTER 3
HOUSE NUMBERS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Number Required
8-3-2: Street And Number Designations
8-3-3: Size Of Numbers
8-3-4: Alteration Or Readjustment
8-3-5: Failure To Comply
8-3-1: NUMBER REQUIRED:
It is hereby made the duty of the owner or person in possession of every
building and premises in the city to number it in the manner herein provided.
(Ch. 8 Art. I, 1956 Code; amd. 2002 Code)
8-3-2: STREET AND NUMBER DESIGNATIONS:
   A.   Directional Streets:
      1.   North And South Streets: All lots or houses located on the north and
south streets or streets running in a general northerly and southerly direction
shall be numbered from the north line of sections sixteen (16), seventeen (17)
and eighteen (18) or such line as extended in township forty one (41) north,
range twelve (12) east of the third principal meridian in Cook County,
Illinois, as a base line beginning with number one at said base line and
increasing towards the south.
      2.   East And West Streets: All lots or houses located on the east and
west streets or streets running in general easterly and westerly direction
shall be numbered from the west line of sections eighteen (18) and nineteen
(19) or such line as extended in township forty one (41) north, range twelve
(12) east of the third principal meridian in Cook County, Illinois, as a base
line beginning with number one at said base line and increasing towards the
east.
   B.   Numbers Per Mile: There shall be assigned to each mile eight hundred
(800) numbers, or one hundred (100) numbers to each one-eighth (1/8) of a mile
on all streets. The even numbers on north and south streets, or streets running
in a general northerly and southerly direction, shall be on the westerly side
of the streets, and the odd numbers on north and south streets, or streets
running in a general northerly and southerly direction, shall be on the
easterly side of the street. The even numbers of the east and west streets, or
streets running in a general easterly and westerly direction, shall be on the
northerly side of the streets, and the odd numbers on the east and west
streets, or streets running in an easterly and westerly direction, shall be on
the southerly side of the streets.
   C.   Assignment Of Numbers: The director of community development shall
assign to each lot or building its proper number and shall inform the owner or
person in possession of the premises as to the number thereof at any time upon
request. (Ch. 8 Art. I, 1956 Code)
8-3-3: SIZE OF NUMBERS:
Each of the figures of every such number on any building shall be not less than
three inches (3") in height and shall be so situated as to be distinctly and
easily read from the abutting street. The numbers shall be placed in a
conspicuous place so as to be easily read from the abutting street. (Ch. 8 Art.
I, 1956 Code; amd. 2002 Code)
8-3-4: ALTERATION OR READJUSTMENT:
   A.   Alteration: Whenever any house or building shall have been numbered or
renumbered in accordance with the provisions of this chapter the number shall
not be changed or altered without the consent of the director of community
development.
   B.   Readjustment: In all cases where numbers have been assigned on any
street in pursuance of this chapter it shall be the duty of the director of
community development thereafter to adjust and reassign the numbers as may be
required from time to time and in all cases where there is a mistake or
conflict in numbers the director of community development shall direct and make
proper adjustment of same. (Ch. 8 Art. I, 1956 Code)
8-3-5: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
Any person being the owner, agent or person in possession of any such building
now erected in the city, who shall for sixty (60) days neglect or refuse to
number any building owned or occupied by him in conformity with the provisions
of this chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
Any owner or occupant of any building hereafter erected in the city who shall
for thirty (30) days after the same shall be erected neglect or refuse to
number the building according to the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor. (Ch. 8 Art. I, 1956 Code)
CHAPTER 4
TREES
SECTION:
8-4-1: Planting Requirements
8-4-2: Replanting By City
8-4-3: Trimming Required
8-4-4: Prohibited Acts, Obstructions
8-4-1: PLANTING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Planting Required: All shade and ornamental trees shall be planted at
least two feet (2') inside of the outer line of the sidewalk ground as may
hereafter be provided by law. (1956 Code ch. 8 art. IV)
   B.   Location And Spacing:
      1.   Based upon a forty (40) year cycle, no tree which will attain a
trunk diameter greater than twelve inches to fifteen inches (12"-15") shall be
planted in a parkway less than three feet to five feet (3'-5') in width. In
parkways less than three feet (3') in width, or if overhead lines or building
setback present special problems, the selection of the site and species shall
be determined by the city forester.
      2.   When the parkway is four feet (4') or less, the city may enter into
written voluntary agreements of three (3) years' duration with the adjoining
landowner whereby, among other things, the city forester shall select, plant
and maintain trees specified within section
13-3-2 of this code a distance of no less than and no more than four feet (4')
from the inside edge of the sidewalk and the center of the tree. Upon the
expiration of the three (3) year period, the tree shall become the sole
property of the adjoining landowner and he shall become solely responsible for
its maintenance. No construction or interpretation of this paragraph shall
conflict with subsection A of this section, nor subsection
13-3-2C of this code.
      3.   Trees shall be planted at least thirty feet (30') from street
intersections and at least fifteen feet (15') from driveways and alleys.
      4.   No tree shall be planted closer than ten feet (10') to a utility
pole or fire hydrant.
      5.   Spacing of trees shall be determined by the city forester and his
determination shall depend upon the local conditions, the species, cultivar or
varieties employed, their mature height, spread and form. Generally, all large
trees shall be planted forty feet to sixty feet (40'-60') on center; all medium
sized trees shall be planted a minimum of thirty five feet (35') on center, and
all small trees shall be planted a minimum of twenty five feet (25') on center.
      6.   All planting on unpaved streets without curbs must have the special
permission of the forester who shall determine the tree's location so that it
will not be injured or destroyed when the street is curbed and paved. (Ord. M-
90-96, 1-6-1997)
8-4-2: REPLANTING BY CITY:
If any tree shall have been heretofore planted without the line established at
the time the same was set out, or shall hereafter be planted in violation of
this chapter, the mayor and the city council shall have the power to, and
shall, in their discretion, cause the same to be taken up and properly set out;
provided, that in no case shall such discretion be exercised unless the tree
shall form a material obstruction to the street or sidewalk, nor unless the
season shall be favorable for transplanting the same. (1956 Code ch. 8 art. IV)
8-4-3: TRIMMING REQUIRED:
All trees maintained or cultivated in any street or public place by the owners
or occupants of the abutting property shall have the boughs or branches cut or
trimmed close to the trunks of the trees, so that the branches thereof shall be
at least eight feet (8') above the sidewalk; and it shall not be lawful to
keep, maintain or cultivate trees in any of the streets or other public places
in the city excepting in the manner provided in this chapter. (1956 Code ch. 8
art. IV)
8-4-4: PROHIBITED ACTS, OBSTRUCTIONS:
   A.   Injury To Trees: No person shall cut, break or otherwise injure or
destroy any shade or ornamental tree upon or alongside any sidewalk or ground
allotted for sidewalk purposes. (1956 Code ch. 8 art. IV)
   B.   Obstruction To Traffic: If any tree shall be suffered by the owner or
occupant of any premises to grow in such a manner as to obstruct the rays of
light of a public lamp, or obstruct the free passage of persons, it shall be
the duty of the chief of police to notify the owner or occupant of the premises
forthwith to trim the same in the manner specified in the notice. If any person
shall refuse or neglect to comply with the notice, it shall be the duty of the
chief of police to cause the trees to be trimmed, and the persons so neglecting
or refusing shall be subject to a penalty as provided in the general penalty in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1956 Code ch. 8 art. IV; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 5
RIGHT OF WAY LICENSE AGREEMENT
SECTION:
8-5-1: Special Permit Application
8-5-2: Application For License
8-5-3: License Provisions
8-5-4: Fees
8-5-5: Revocation Of Permit
8-5-6: Penalty
8-5-1: SPECIAL PERMIT APPLICATION:
   A.   Pursuant to the home rule authority of the city of Des Plaines, the
director of community and economic development is authorized to review
applications for a license agreement and on a case by case basis grant such a
permit for license agreement, if in his or her opinion, the city's health,
safety, and welfare are not compromised by the proposed improvement.
   B.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, the city may permit
the conveyance of a license for an incorporeal hereditament or nonpossessory
interest in the city right of way such as sidewalks, driveways or aprons
adjacent to private property to the owner of such property. Such license shall
be granted by the director of community and economic development of the city of
Des Plaines and may permit the owner to construct and maintain special paving,
mailboxes, landscaping, sprinkler systems and similar items in said city owned
right of way. Such licenses shall not be issued as a matter of right, but shall
be considered on a case by case basis. (Ord. M-72-05, 11-21-2005)
8-5-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for such a license shall be made to the director of community
development upon an application provided by that department. The application
shall contain the name and address of the person making application and the
address, legal description, and property identification number of the property
in question. Specific plans and specifications of the proposed use of the right
of way shall be included with the application. If the director of community
development finds the application to be in proper form, he shall approve same
and sign the license agreement on behalf of the city. (Ord. M-72-05, 11-21-
2005)
8-5-3: LICENSE PROVISIONS:
The license shall be substantially in the following form:
   LICENSE AGREEMENT
   WHEREAS,                                       , hereinafter referred to as
"grantee", has requested permission of the corporate authorities of the city of
Des Plaines to install a                            in the public right of way
adjacent to and in front of the property located at                        ,
Des Plaines, Illinois; and
   WHEREAS, the Director of Community and Economic Development of the city of
Des Plaines on                                      , approved said request;
and
   WHEREAS, Section
8-5-1A of the City Code authorizes the city of Des Plaines, hereinafter
referred to as "grantor", to convey a license for the construction,
installation, and/or maintenance of such                      as contemplated
herein;
   NOW, THEREFORE, upon the mutual covenants and agreement hereinafter set
forth and other good and valuable considerations, the receipt and sufficiency
of which are hereby acknowledged, the grantor, City of Des Plaines, hereby
grants, without Warranty of Title and without grant of any possessory estate or
interest or rights in the land described below, unto the grantee, its
successors and assigns, a license to install, construct, operate, maintain,
repair, and remove, in accord with the design and drawing attached hereto and
made a part hereof as exhibit "A", a certain                        ,
hereinafter referred to as "facilities", to be located in the portion of the
public right of way adjacent to and immediately in front of the property
commonly known as                        , Des Plaines, Illinois, legally
described as follows:
   (insert legal description)
(Real Estate Tax No.                    ), which is granted, however, subject
to the following terms, covenants and conditions:
   1.The grantor may at any future time after the date hereof by action of the
City Council revoke this license contained herein at will and without notice to
the grantee and without cost to either the grantor or its successors or
assigns.
   2.Upon such revocation of this license by the grantor, and within thirty
(30) days' written notice of said revocation to the grantee, the grantee shall
remove the Facilities installed and constructed by it pursuant to the terms of
this license.
   3.Upon completion of its work of installation, construction, operation,
maintenance, repair or removal, grantee shall remove from the public right of
way all construction materials and all unused excavation material including
rock and debris, and shall replace all backfilling materials in a neat and
workmanlike manner. Grantee shall leave the public right of way and any
adjacent properties used by the grantee in connection with the installation,
construction, maintenance, operation, repair or removal of the Facilities in a
neat, clean, and orderly condition - including restoration of the top soil land
restoration of the ground to its elevation and condition at the time of the
execution hereof. Grantee shall at all times, and under all circumstances,
indemnify, defend, protect, and save harmless the grantor, its employees, its
grantees, licensees, agents, lessees and invitees, from and against any and all
damages, losses, claims, demands, actions and causes of action whatsoever
(including any reasonable costs, expenses and attorney fees which may be
incurred in connection therewith) whether or not the claim, demand, or action
asserted be meritorious, and which results from or is alleged to arise out of
or in connection with, the installation, construction, reconstruction,
operation, maintenance, alteration, repair, replacement, removal or existence
of the Facilities upon the public right-of-way, or the existence of the license
granted grantee herein; provided, however, that in the event any such claim,
damage, loss, demand, action, or cause of action is asserted against the
grantor, or its agents, grantor shall furnish grantee with written notification
thereof and grantee shall conduct the defense thereof before any court, board,
commission or other governmental body exercising jurisdiction therein. No
settlement or compromise of any such claim, damage, loss, demand, action or
cause of action against grantor shall be made unless agreed to by grantor.
   4.Grantee agrees to pay grantor, its grantees, licensees, agents, lessees
and invitees for any and all damage or injury (including death) to person(s) or
property or any expense which they, or any of them, may sustain resulting from
or arising out of or in connection with, the installation, construction,
reconstruction, operation, maintenance, alteration, repair, replacement,
removal or existence of the facilities upon the public right of way, or the
existence of the license granted grantee hereunder.
   5.Grantor shall not be liable to grantee, its grantees, licensees, agents,
lessees or invitees for any damage or injuries (including death) to any persons
or to any of their properties except to the extent that injuries or damages are
caused by the negligent, willful or malicious misconduct of grantor.
   6.Any notice herein provide to be given shall be deemed properly given if in
writing and delivered personally or mailed to the city clerk of the grantor at
the Des Plaines Civic Center, 1420 Miner Street, Des Plaines, Illinois, or to
such other person or addresses as the parties hereto may from time to time
designate upon written notice.
   7.This agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the
parties hereto and their respective successors in interest.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this license agreement to
be executed by their proper officers, thereunto duly authorized and their
respective seals to be hereto affixed, this             day of
                   ,        .
                                                       
                                                       
   CITY OF DES PLAINES, a municipal corporation
   By:                                                      
   Director of Community and
   Economic Development
   ATTEST:
                               
City Clerk
 
The license agreement must be approved by the city attorney before it is
executed. (Ord. M-72-05, 11-21-2005)
8-5-4: FEES:
The fees for the issuance of such license shall be in such amount as shall be
established from time to time by resolution of the city council. (Ord. M-72-05,
11-21-2005)
8-5-5: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
If any person obtaining or possessing a permit under the terms of this chapter
shall at any time fail or neglect to comply with the provisions herein
prescribed, then such permit may be revoked by the city council. (Ord. M-72-05,
11-21-2005)
8-5-6: PENALTY:
Any person who violates, disobeys or omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be fined as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each day that a violation is permitted to
exist after notification thereof shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. M-
72-05, 11-21-2005)
CHAPTER 6
PARKWAYS
SECTION:
8-6-1: Definition
8-6-2: Vehicle Parking
8-6-3: Plant And Fence Restrictions
8-6-4: Real Estate Signs
8-6-5: Duty To Maintain Parkways
8-6-1: DEFINITION:
PARKWAY: That property dedicated to the city lying between the improved streets
and sidewalks. (10-17-1960)
8-6-2: VEHICLE PARKING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use any parkway within the city for the
parking of any vehicles whatsoever. (10-17-1960)
8-6-3: PLANT AND FENCE RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for an adjoining property owner, or occupant thereof, to
cause or allow bushes or other dense plantings to grow in excess of twenty four
inches (24") in height within a parkway or within eight feet (8') back of the
property line of such property, or to construct or maintain a fence in a
parkway. Nothing in this section shall be construed to be permission to
construct a fence of any size in a parkway where otherwise prohibited by the
building code, fence ordinance or other law or regulation, and this section is
expressly made subject and subordinate to such other provisions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the C-1, C-2, C-3 and C-4 zoning districts,
it shall be unlawful for an adjoining property owner, or occupant thereof, to
cause or allow any bushes or other dense plantings to grow in excess of twenty
four inches (24") in height within a parkway or within eight feet (8') back of
the property line of such property.
The acts prohibited by this section are hereby declared to be a nuisance and a
traffic hazard, in that they obstruct the clear view of motorists, cyclists and
pedestrians traveling on adjoining streets and sidewalks.
The director of public works shall be and is authorized to cause the removal of
such obstructions immediately upon detection. (Ord. M-25-92, 7-6-1992)
8-6-4: REAL ESTATE SIGNS:
   A.   "For Sale" And "For Rent" Signs: Real estate "For Sale" and "For Rent"
signs, or other such similar displays, shall be posted on private property
only; such postings shall be restricted to actual location of the property
being sold or rented. Seven (7) days after issuance of real estate transfer
stamp, the "For Sale" sign shall be removed from the property. (Ord. M-46-91,
10-7-1991; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Temporary Residential Real Estate "Open House" Signs: "Open House"
signs for the purpose of directing traffic to residential real estate upon
which there is located any dwelling for sale by any person or joint owners
being advertised for sale shall be allowed provided the following conditions
are met:
      1.   Not more than four (4) open house signs shall be permitted for any
given residential real estate, each of which shall not exceed six (6) square
feet in gross surface area per sign face; (Ord. M-46-91, 10-7-1991)
      2.   Open house signs may be placed in the parkway at various
intersections; however, they shall not interfere with any motor vehicle
driver's line of vision; (Ord. M-46-91, 10-7-1991; amd. 2002 Code)
      3.   Such signs shall only be allowed on the day said open house is being
held between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M.;
      4.   Each open house sign must have attached to it identification
denoting the person or persons who are responsible for the placement and
removal of said signs; and
      5.   At any given time, on any given tract of real estate or
intersection, not more than one open house sign directing the public in any one
direction may be placed by the same business entity (i.e., same business name);
or two (2) or more signs by the same business entity so long as the signs by
the same business entity direct the public in a different direction. (Ord. M-
46-91, 10-7-1991)
8-6-5: DUTY TO MAINTAIN PARKWAYS:
   A.   Every owner of real property within the city shall be required to cut
the grass in the parkway immediately adjacent to the front or side yard of said
real property, as necessary, so that the grass on any such parkway does not
exceed six inches (6") in height. (Ord. M-73-94, 11-21-1994)
   B.   Any person who neglects or refuses to comply with the provisions of
this section shall be subject to a fine as provided in the general penalty in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each day that a violation is permitted to
exist shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. M-73-94, 11-21-1994; amd. 2002
Code)
TITLE 9
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
WATER SYSTEM REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Certain Lands Taxed For Waterworks
9-1-2: Permits Required
9-1-3: Rules And Regulations For Water Takers
9-1-4: Excavating For Water Mains
9-1-5: Pipe Specifications
9-1-6: Water Meters
9-1-7: Rates
9-1-8: Tap-On Fees
9-1-9: Delinquent And Nonpayment Of Water Bills
9-1-10: Water Use Restrictions
9-1-11: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
9-1-12: Penalty
9-1-1: CERTAIN LANDS TAXED FOR WATERWORKS:
No part of the lands or lots in the city, or which may hereafter be annexed to
the city, that have not heretofore been assessed for the establishment and the
construction of waterworks, water mains and hydrants, shall be entitled to
water privileges, or to connect with any water main or water service pipe,
without first paying into the general fund of the city an amount equal to the
general footage benefits, being at the rate of two dollars fifty cents ($2.50)
per front foot. For new subdivision annexations, the requirements of the
subdivision ordinance shall apply 1
. (Ord. M-38-89, 9-5-1989)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 13 of this code.
9-1-2: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   Permit To Use Water:
      1.   No person shall, without the authority first had from the mayor and
city council, or some authorized agent thereof, take water from any public or
private hydrant, hose or pipe, except for fire purposes or for the use of the
fire department in case of fire, or shall in any way use or take any water for
private use, drinking fountains excepted, unless the person has first paid for
same and received a permit from the city as aforesaid.
      2.   When city public water is available, property owners must disconnect
from their private or noncity water system and connect to the city public water
system within one year of notice.
      3.   Any person seeking to disconnect from city water service may request
the city council to grant an exemption from the requirement to use city water
on such terms and conditions as the city council, in its discretion, may deem
appropriate. Any such disconnection shall be at the owner's full and complete
expense including the cost of recording a notice of disconnection with the
office of the Cook County recorder.
      4.   Any person violating this subsection A shall be fined a minimum of
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense; a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day such violation occurs or continues. (Ord. M-63-98,
9-21-1998)
   B.   Permit To Lay Or Tap Water Pipes: No person shall make any excavation
in any street or avenue or other place for the purpose of laying water pipes,
or tap any water or service pipe laid down, without a written permit therefor
issued by the director of community development and then only such persons as
are authorized to perform such work shall do the same, and the particular
person or plumber to be employed to do the work shall in each case be named in
the permit. The work of making a water tap two inches (2") or less shall be
done by city employees. (Ord. M-38-89, 9-5-1989; amd. Ord. M-23-91, 6-17-1991)
9-1-3: RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR WATER TAKERS:
The following rules and regulations for the government of water takers and
licensed plumbers are hereby adopted and established:
   A.   Work On Streets: All work on the streets, avenues and public grounds,
and any such work contemplated by this chapter, must be done under the
supervision of the director of public works, subject to his direction and
approval.
   B.   Corporation Stops; Record Of Taps: Corporation stops inserted in the
distributing pipes and the service pipes laid shall be of the size specified in
the permit and order. The director of public works shall keep a complete record
showing the exact size, location and number of all taps inserted; the tapper
being hereby required to make immediate return to the director of public works
of such details.
   C.   Permit To Connect Service Pipes; Fees: Application for permits to
connect service pipes with any supply pipe must be made to the director of
community development and the sums to be paid for the insertion of service
stops or valves shall be as determined from time to time by resolution of the
city council. Only persons authorized by the Director of Public Works, or their
designee, may tap the street main or corporation stops in the main. Only the
City may install taps two or fewer inches in nominal diameter. Taps less than
one inch in nominal diameter are prohibited unless approved by the Director of
Public Works. All taps greater than two inches in nominal diameter shall be
made by the licensed plumbing contractor hired by the permittee. Any connection
made by a party other than the City must be made by a licensed plumber and only
after a permit has been paid for and issued as hereinabove set forth.
   For connections and taps performed by the City, a permittee must pay a
tapping charge of $300 for labor. The City will furnish the corporation stop.
   Permittees must provide at least 48 hours’ notice to the Public Works
Department of the date, place and time that a water tap is desired. The
excavation for the tapper must be at least three feet wide and four feet long
for taps up to two inches and must be a least four feet wide and six feet long
where a cut must be made in the main. The excavation must be properly shored by
the excavator in accordance with applicable Occupational Health and Safety
Administration (OSHA) standards. The excavation shall be inspected by an
authorized City representative prior to tapping.
   If the City has to visit the job site more than once due to any reason not
fully in the control of the City, including, without limitation, the excavation
is not of sufficient size or is not properly dug, the plumber performing the
work will be charged a $250 fee, in addition to the regular tapping fee, for
each time the City must return to the jobsite.
   D.   Reserved.
   E.   Supervision Of System: The director of public works shall superintend
and direct all work connected with the water system and from time to time
report to the mayor and city council as to the manner in which the plumbers
perform their work and the condition in which he finds the streets repaired.
   F.   Hydrants Left Running: Hydrants, tap hoses, water closets, urinals,
baths and other fixtures shall not be permitted to be kept running when not in
actual use.
   G.   Private Hydrant Beyond Limits Of Lot Prohibited: No private hydrant
shall be located on the sidewalk or elsewhere beyond the limits of the lot of
the party to whom the permit is issued. No private hydrant in a lot shall be
allowed to be used as a public hydrant unless by a special permit from the
mayor and city council.
   H.   City Public Water System Connection Required: When any premises or
tenement is or will be utilized for human occupancy or habitation, and when the
city public water system is within two hundred fifty feet (250') of any portion
of the property where such premises or tenement is or will be located, then the
premises or tenement shall be connected to, and all potable water for the
premises or tenement shall be supplied directly from, the city public water
system. All property owners must disconnect their property from any private
water source or any water system other than the city public water system and
connect to the city public water system not later than one year after receiving
notice from the city.
   I.   Service Pipe; Kind And Manner Of Laying: Service pipe intended to
supply two or more distinct premises or tenements, must be provided with a
separate and distinct curb stop and box for each tenement, on the outside of
the lot of which such tenement is located. Each service pipe shall have its own
independent tap, and have within the limit of the curb, at the edge of the
sidewalk, a curb stop with a shutoff box not less than four feet long. Every
curb stop and shutoff box shall be subject to the inspection and acceptance of
the director of public works. The taps shall be such as are in use by the
department of public works. The sidewalk curb stop shall be the same size as
corporation stop and the top of the stopbox shall be visible and even with the
sidewalk, and placed at the outer edge of the sidewalk line. The service pipe
shall extend to the lot line beyond the curb stop. The line of the service pipe
shall be at right angles with the main, and the sidewalk curb stop shall be
located directly opposite the tap in the main. The shutoff box shall be set
plumb and in a substantial manner. The service pipe shall be laid not less than
five feet below the established grade of the street in which it is laid,
without regard to the depth of the street main. Service pipes shall have
sufficient length to prevent fracture by settlement of earth, and the
backfilling over the pipe must be satisfactorily rammed or puddled to the
satisfaction of the water division foreman. After the corporation stop is
inserted, the earth must be carefully rammed with a suitable rammer under the
distributing pipes, to a level with the top thereof, before the connection is
made. All such excavated areas shall be suitably barricaded and backfilled.
   J.   Occupants Not To Supply Water To Others: No owner or occupant of any
building, premises or enclosure, to which city water is supplied, shall be
allowed to supply water to other persons or structures. If so supplied, the
water shall be cut off without notice and all associated expenses shall be paid
for by the owners before service is restored.
   K.   Access To Premises: The director of public works or his authorized
agents shall have full and free access, at all hours of the day between 7:00
A.M. and 6:00 P.M., to all parts of every building, premises or enclosure, into
which water shall be delivered or consumed. Upon a seven day notice posted on
the door, the director of public works or his authorized agents shall examine,
inspect, obtain water samples and test the fixtures, service lines, water
meters or water mains to ascertain whether there is any unnecessary waste of
water or inaccurate registering of water usage. The director of public works
shall notify the owner of any unnecessary water loss by mail, and request that
such leak or problem be repaired within 10 days by a bonded, licensed plumber.
Failure to comply shall be cause to have the water supply shut off until proper
inspection and repairs are made.
   L.   Buffalo Box; Shutoff Valve Maintenance; Repair: The city shall be
responsible for maintenance, repair and replacement of the water shutoff valve
for each property, regardless of where that valve/buffalo box is located. In
the event that more than one shutoff valve exists, the valve closest to the
city water main shall be maintained by the city. Any secondary valves in that
case are the property owner’s responsibility. The corporation stop or tapping
valve shall not be considered the shutoff valve for a property.
   M.   Water Service Line Maintenance: Except as specified in subsection T,
the property owner shall be responsible for the maintenance, repair and
replacement of the water service line from the buffalo box or shutoff valve,
including the connection thereto, up to the structure serviced by that water
line. The city shall be responsible for the maintenance, repair and replacement
of the water service line from the buffalo box or shutoff valve to the point of
connection to the city water main.
   N.   Large Private Pipes For Private Purposes: Proprietors of lumberyards,
factories, halls, stores, hotels, or public buildings, that are regular
consumers of city water, that wish to lay large pipes with hydrant and hose
couplings for fire extinguishing purposes, shall make application to the
director of community development for a permit to connect with the city street
main at their own expense, for such purposes. Under the direction of the
director of public works, such applicants shall be allowed use of water for
fire purposes only, free of charge.
   O.   Turning Water On; Order Required: Water shall not be turned into any
house or place of business or private service pipe except upon the order of the
director of public works, nor shall water be turned into any house or place of
business or private service pipe until the water user has paid his water rents
for the current term.
   Plumbers shall be allowed to turn water on into any house, place of
business, or private service pipe, and leave the water turned on for up to
forty eight (48) hours, in order to test their work. At the end of such testing
time, they shall turn off the water. For all other purposes, plumbers are
strictly prohibited from turning the water into any service pipe except upon
the order or permission of the director of public works. Any damage to the B-
box or water service shall be the contractor’s responsibility to repair at his
cost.
   P.   Hydrants Within Street Prohibited: No hydrant shall be placed within
the limit of any street that is not authorized for installation at such
location by the director of public works; no drinking fountain shall be erected
for public use which has openings by which it can be used as a source of
domestic water supply.
   Q.   Depth Of Pipes: Pipes shall be laid at not less than five feet below
the ground surface and shall remain uncovered until inspected by the director
of public works, the city engineer or their designee.
   R.   Penalty For Violating Rules And Regulations: For a violation of any of
the above rules and regulations, or such other rules as the mayor and city
council may hereafter adopt, the mayor and city council reserve the right to
stop water service without any preliminary notice and not restore water service
until all back water rents, costs and damages are paid, together with $50.00
for the expense of turning off water and turning it on again, and upon a
satisfactory understanding with the party that no further cause of complaint
shall arise. The mayor and city council hereby reserve the full right, power
and authority to cut off the supply of water at any time without incurring any
liability or cause of action or damages of any kind, any permit granted or
regulation to the contrary notwithstanding.
   S.   Verification Of City Water Service: The director of public works or his
authorized agents shall have the right to sample the water at any property
within the city in order to verify the source of that water. If necessary the
director of public works shall have the right to enter a property to obtain a
suitable sample.
   T.   Lead And Galvanized Water Service Lines - Replacement Program: In
accordance with the Illinois Lead Service Line Replacement and Notification
Act. 20 ILCS 605/1 et seq., and in accordance with the City's proposed lead
service tine replacement plan (to be submitted to the State by April 15, 2027,
or by such other deadline as required by the State), the City will pay for and
replace the portion of lead water service lines (and galvanized water service
lines if previously connected to a lead service line) located on private
property, which portion typically includes the portion of the service line
extending from the b-box to the first shut-off valve inside the structure or
eighteen inches (18") inside the structure. whichever is shorter.
      1.   Replacement Materials: The lead service line (or galvanized water
service lines if it was previously connected to a lead service line) will be
replaced with a pipe with minimum of one inch (1") in diameter. If the property
owner or water customer for the property wants to increase the size of the
replacement water service line, the property owner or water customer will be
responsible for paying the difference in costs (including, without limitation,
labor and material costs) prior to the installation of the replacement pipe.
      2.   Scope Of Work: The City will not be responsible for completing or
for paying any costs associated with any restoration of drywall; painting;
remodeling; moving of plumbing fixtures; carpet; flooring; decorative exterior
plantings. including. without limitation. bushes. trees. plants; hardscape,
including, without limitation, retaining walls, and pavers; temporary water
facilities; private electrical, including, without limitation, post lights and
landscape lighting; or any other improvements on the property. The City
reserves the right to determine, at its sole discretion, which costs are
eligible for payment by the City under the program.
      3.   Hold Harmless: In order to be eligible to participate in the lead
service line replacement program and receive a replacement service line at no
cost to the property owner or water customer, the property owner or water
customer must sign a hold-harmless agreement with the City, in the form
provided by the City, prior to the commencement of the service line replacement
work.
      4.   Program Not Retroactive: Water service line replacements completed
before adoption of the ordinance to add this Subsection T are not eligible for
the program and will not be reimbursed for any costs incurred to replace their
service lines. (Ord. M-38-89, 9-5-1989; Ord. M-21-91, 6-17-1991; Ord. M-59-93,
12-6-1993; Ord. M-41-97, 7-7-1997; 2002 Code; Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-2014; Ord. M-
5-24, 4-1-2024; Ord. M-11-24, 7-15-2024)
9-1-4: EXCAVATING FOR WATER MAINS:
The contractor will be required to do all excavation, including earth, rock and
any other material. The trenches shall be of such depth that there shall be at
least five and one-half feet (51/2') of cover below the surface of the street.
Where the surface of the street is above the established grade, there shall be
at least five and one-half feet (51/2') of cover below such grade.
“Contractor”, as used in these specifications, refers to the part of the first
part to the agreement for the construction of the work specified.
   A.   Specifications: Excavations shall be done under the following:
      1.   Manner Of Depositing Material Excavated: The material excavated
shall be deposited on the side of the trenches beyond the reach of slides and
banks trimmed up so as to be of as little inconvenience as possible to public
travel or tenants occupying the adjoining property. In case it is necessary to
place excavated material on any sidewalk, the contractor shall erect barriers
to keep the earth at least four feet (4') from the front of all buildings and
from the inner portion of the sidewalk, in front of residence property the
earth shall in all cases be kept off the sidewalks. In case earth is deposited
on grass plots, the contractor shall remove it carefully so as not to destroy
the grass.
      2.   Paving To Be Replaced: All paving, macadamizing, planking, sidewalk,
culverts or crosswalks of whatever nature must be carefully removed before the
excavation is made, and when removed the material must be kept separate from
the excavated material and replaced in as good and safe condition as before
being removed, subject to all rules and regulations of the director of public
works. In case the character of the ground requires it, to protect the work,
the street or the workers, the sides of the trenches must be supported by
suitable bracings. (Ch. 30 Art. III, 1956 Code)
      3.   Concrete Under Pipe When Necessary: Whenever the ground is
sufficiently firm, the pipes may be laid directly on the bottom of the
excavation; but wherever, in the judgment of the director of public works, it
is necessary to put bedding stone, timber or plank under the pipe, the
contractor shall furnish such stone, timber or plank as may be designated at
his own cost. (Ch. 30 Art. III, 1956 Code; amd. 2002 Code)
      4.   Supports: No water pipe of sixteen inches (16") or greater diameter
shall be laid without such support placed as shall be designated by the
director of public works.
      5.   Material Furnished By Contractor: All material of every kind, unless
specifically mentioned in the contract, must be furnished by the contractor.
      6.   Pipes Protected: All water, gas, sewer or other pipes or conduits of
any kind and cables are to be carefully supported and protected from injury by
the contractor while the excavation is being made and the backfilling finished,
or if necessary, until the proper officers remove or change the same. The earth
shall be filled in carefully under and around all pipes and thoroughly rammed,
so as to render their position as safe and permanent as before. Any damage done
to the pipes or caused by neglect to attend to them shall be paid by the
contractor.
      7.   Contractor To Do Necessary Pumping: The contractor will be required
to do all necessary pumping or bailing, build all drains, and do all other work
necessary to keep the trenches clear of water during the progress of the work
at his own expense.
      8.   Blasting Rock: When rock is encountered in excavating the trenches
and is removed by blasting, the trenches must be carefully covered so as to
prevent danger to life or property. the rock must be excavated not less than
six inches (6") below the bottom of the pipe and all irregularities in the
bottom of the rock trench must be filled and rammed in place, and the trench
brought up to the proper level to lay the pipe, and the earth under the pipe
must be rammed to give a firm foundation. (Ch. 30 Art. III, 1956 Code)
      9.   Manner Of Filling Trenches: After the pipe is laid and as soon as
possible thereafter, the backfilling is to be commenced by thoroughly ramming
the earth under and around the pipe to a point level with the top of the same.
Above the pipe, the backfilling is to be placed in layers of nine inches (9")
to twelve inches (12") and thoroughly rammed, or it may be puddled or jetted as
the director of public works may direct. All of the material excavated must be
put back in the trench, and whatever more material may be required to fill the
trench must be furnished by the contractor at his own expense. The backfilling
shall not be left unfinished more than two hundred feet (200') behind the
completed pipe work. (Ch. 30 Art. III, 1956 Code; amd. 2002 Code)
   Surplus material and rubbish must be entirely removed from the street at the
expense of the contractor, as may be directed by the director of public works.
      10.   Contractor To Give Personal Attention: The contractor must give his
personal attention to the work, or must have a person do the work who has
authority to act for him in any and all cases. Any instruction given to his
agent will be considered as notice to the contractor.
      11. Improper Materials Or Workmanship: The director of public works, or
the inspector or engineer in charge, must be permitted to remove such portions
of the work as he may think necessary to the discovery of improper materials or
workmanship. The contractor shall restore such work at his own expense if done
improperly, otherwise at the expense of the city.
      12. Incompetent Employees: The contractor will be required to dismiss any
incompetent or unfaithful employee on demand of the director or an inspector,
and the person shall not be reemployed without consent of the director. All
orders of the director, or of an inspector, must be faithfully and implicitly
carried out. (Ch. 30, Art. III, 1956 Code)
      13. Extra Work: No claims for extra labor or material furnished by the
contractor shall be allowed unless ordered in writing by the director of public
works, and all claims for damages for any cause whatever must be reported to
the inspector at the time such damages occur and all claims for extras shall be
presented to the director daily, on the day such extra work, if any, is done.
(Ord. M-38-89, 9-5-1989)
      14. Suspension Of Operations: If for any cause the director of public
works finds it necessary or desirable to suspend operations, it is to be done
by the contractor on due notification, and he will not be entitled to damages
because of such suspension. He will, however, be allowed further time for the
completion of his contract equal to the delay ordered. All work shall be
commenced and carried on at such time and in such manner as the director of
public works may direct. (Ch. 30 Art. III, 1956 Code)
      15. Utilities/Railroad Tracks: The contractor shall provide the city, and
the owners of the various utility companies, all the necessary insurance and
permits required.
   Should it be necessary to remove the railroad tracks, gas pipes, sewer
pipes, electric wires or any portion thereof, the director of public works
shall notify the company, its agents or superintendents, to remove same within
a specified period of time. The contractor shall not interfere with the tracks,
gas pipes, electric wires or sewer pipes, or any portion thereof, until the
expiration of the time specified in the director’s notice. (Ord. M-38-89, 9-5-
1989)
      16. Disputes; Settlement: All disputes as to the meaning of these
specifications, explanations or directions necessary to satisfactorily complete
the different descriptions of work contemplated and provided for under the
contract will be given by the director of public works, and his decision shall
be final and binding as between any contractor and the city, subject to the
ratification by the mayor and city council. (Ch. 30 Art. III, 1956 Code)
   B.   Excavation When Ground Frozen: No person shall make any excavation in
any street or avenue of the city within four and one-half feet (41/2') of any
laid water pipe when the ground is frozen, except by special order of the
director of public works, which permission shall be in writing. (Ord. M-38-89,
9-5-1989; amd. Ord. M-59-93, 12-6-1993)
9-1-5: PIPE SPECIFICATIONS:
All water pipes and mains hereafter laid in the city shall be of the kind,
quality and description as shall be directed by the director of public works
and shall conform to the specifications prepared for the same by the director
from time to time.
   A.   Contractor To Furnish Labor And Material: The contractor shall furnish
all labor and material of every kind to complete the work to the satisfaction
of the director of public works.
   B.   Manner Of Laying: Each pipe is to be laid level, upon a firm bed and to
the line and grade. Excavation must be made under and around the bell of each
pipe, so that the entire length of the pipe may lay upon the bottom of the
trench.
   C.   Where Contractor Furnishes Pipe; Conditions: Where the contractor
purchases the pipe, special valves or hydrants from the city or when the city
furnishes the same:
      1.   The city will not be responsible for delays caused by the material
not being promptly delivered by either the manufacturer or the transportation
company.
      2.   The contractor will be required to haul all material from the yards
of the transportation company to the line of the work.
      3.   Any pipe, special castings, valves or fire hydrants broken or
damaged in transit from the yard to the street where they are to be used, or
after they have been delivered on the street, shall be replaced by the
contractor at his own expense.
   D.   Delivering Pipe On Streets: In delivering pipes on the streets, they
will be distributed in the order in which they are to be laid, and so placed as
not to unnecessarily interfere with the public use of the streets, crossings
and sidewalks.
   E.   Pipes To Be Cleaned As Laid: The pipes and all other castings shall be
carefully swept and cleaned, as they are laid, of any earth or rubbish. Every
open end of a pipe shall be plugged, or otherwise closed before leaving the
work for the night.
   F.   Valves; Placement: All special valves, and fire hydrants, must be
placed as directed by the director of public works.
   G.   Price To Include All Material And Labor: The price bid per lineal foot
for each size of pipe shall include all excavations, backfilling, pipe and any
and all material necessary to carry out these specifications. The length of
pipe to be paid for will include the space occupied by specials and valves.
   H.   Price For Fittings: The price bid per pound for specials will be the
amount to be paid, in addition to that received in the bid for the pipe, where
the special is measured along with the length of pipe. The contractor and the
Inspector must agree upon the weight of the special before it is put in the
trench. No payment will be made for the T (tee) to connect the water main and a
fire hydrant.
   I.   Price Of Valve: The price bid for each valve must include the valve put
in place, the valve chamber built according to plans on file in the office of
the director of public works, and an iron cover weighing three hundred seventy
(370) pounds.
   J.   Price For Hydrant: The price bid for each fire hydrant shall include
the T (tee) which is located on the water main, the necessary length of six
inch (6") pipe to reach from the main to the fire hydrant, the minimum of six
inch (6") auxiliary valve at the hydrant, the fire hydrant, the hydrant box and
the work of putting fire hydrants and fittings up. Also, the foot of each fire
hydrant must be set on a stone twelve inches by twelve inches by six inches
(12" x 12" x 6"). (Ord. M-38-89, 9-5-1989)
9-1-6: WATER METERS:
   A.   Meters Required: All water sold or supplied by the city shall be
furnished through meters and shall be paid for at the meter rate now
established by the city or as may hereafter, from time to time, be so
established; prior to said date the owners of all property in the city in which
water is used from the city system of water mains shall have installed, as
hereinafter provided upon their respective premises, a water meter of the kind
hereinafter designated; such meter shall be properly attached to the service
pipe so as to correctly measure all city water used on such premises. (Ord. M-
38-89, 9-5-1989)
   It shall be mandatory to provide a bypass system, complete with full shutoff
valves, on all large water meters (11/2" and over in size) to prevent water
service interruptions when overhauling said meters and the same shall apply to
small sized water meters when the supply of water must be continuously
maintained. Any person using the bypass system on such meters, to avoid paying
for water, shall be fined as provided in section 9-1-11 of this chapter. All
bypass systems must be metered in accordance with this section. (Ord. M-38-89,
9-5-1989; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Type And Installation:
      1.   Type Of Meters: All meters meeting the American Waterworks
Association standards as adopted in 1916, and amended thereafter, are hereby
adopted and approved for exclusive use in the city. All meters shall also be
equipped with an outside reading device; minimum elevation of said device shall
be 42 inches above ground level. This shall include all new and replacement
meter installations. Every meter which may be installed shall first be approved
by the director of public works before it can be installed. (Ord. M-101-81, 1-
4-1982)
      2.   Meter Tests: All meters shall factory tested and calibrated before
installation. If any property owner disputes the accuracy of a water meter, he
has the following options:
         a.   The meter can be tested by the department of public works; or
         b.   The meter may be tested by an independent state and AWWA
certified testing facility. (2002 Code)
      3.   Installation Of Meters: The Director of Public Works, or their
designee, will facilitate setting and sealing of all water meters. In no case
will anyone be allowed to remove or replace any water meter without specific
authorization from the Director of Public Works, or their designee. The owner
and occupant of the premises in which any such meter is installed shall be
liable for the theft thereof and breakage by freezing or otherwise, or damage
to it in any manner, and shall replace or repair the same or any part thereof
within five days after notice by the director of public works or other officer
of the city and on failure to so comply with any such notice the water shall be
shut off. (Ch. 30 Art. V, 1956 Code)
      4.   Placement: Upon all premises, the meter shall be set in the
structure or basement as near as possible to where the service pipe enters such
structure or basement.
   C.   Conducting Pipes: The conducting pipes of all meters shall be joined
with tailpiece type unions or flanges. (2002 Code)
   D.   Schedule Of Meter Prices: The schedule of prices for meters sold by the
city to water consumers shall be as determined from time to time by resolution
of the city council. (Ord. M-41-72, 9-5-1972)
   E.   Repairs To Meters: The owner or occupant of any building or premises
where any meter connected with the service pipes of the water supply system of
the city is installed shall see that the meter is kept and remains free from
obstructions on or around the same and that it is conveniently accessible at
all reasonable times for the purpose of reading, inspecting or repairing the
same, and the director of public works or other employee or agent of the city
shall be permitted at all reasonable hours to inspect or examine the meter for
the purpose of reading, replacing or repairing the same; and the water shall be
turned off from any service pipe where the meter connected therewith shall not
be kept free and accessible and repaired as herein required and the same shall
not be turned on again until this subsection and all other provisions of this
chapter have been complied with and the cost of turning off and turning on the
water shall have been paid. If for any reason the water cannot be turned off,
the City may assess a $50 administration fee every month until the customer
allows access for the repair. Any breakage to pipes or shutoff valves during a
meter change or repair shall be the property owner’s responsibility to repair.
(Ord. M-41-97, 7-7-1997)
   F.   Interference With Meters: No person, unless properly authorized by the
city, shall connect, disconnect, remove, repair or otherwise disturb any water
meter, and any person who shall turn on the supply of water to the service pipe
from which the supply has been turned off by the authority of the city on
account of nonpayment of water rents or noncompliance with any of the
provisions of this chapter without first obtaining a permit from the director
of public works or some authorized officer of the city to do so. (Ord. M-38-89,
9-5-1989; amd. Ord. M-59-93, 12-6-1993; 2002 Code)
   G.   Faulty Meters:
      1.   In case a remote meter register for any cause fails to properly
register the quantity of water passing through the inside water meter for any
period, the amount charged for water used during such period shall be based on
the inside meter reading. The charge for turning on or off the water in all
cases for the violation of this subsection shall be the same as is now
prescribed for such service in other cases.
      2.   In case a meter for any cause fails to register the quantity of
water passing through the same for any period, the amount charged for water
during such period shall be estimated by the director of public works or other
authorized officer of the city and the estimate shall be based on the average
amount registered during the two (2) preceding like periods. The charge for
turning on or off the water in all cases for the violation of this subsection
shall be the same as is now prescribed for such service in other cases. (Ord.
M-41-97, 7-7-1997)
      3.   The city has the right to mail notices to all water customers
requesting the property owner to read the internal meter and the remote read.
The property owner has the responsibility to return the notice, with the
readings, by the date shown on the mailing. Failure to do so will place the
account on delinquent status and may cause the water service to be shut off.
Timing of this mailing shall be determined by the director of finance and
administrative services and the director of public works. (2002 Code)
   H.   Maintenance Of Meter Boxes/Vaults: Maintenance of any meter box or
vault outside a structure receiving water service shall be the property owner’s
responsibility. Likewise, any connection pipes or shutoff valves adjacent to
the meter contained in the meter box or vault are the property owner’s
responsibility to maintain. (Ord. M-41-97, 7-7-1997; amd. Ord. M-5-24, 4-1-
2024)
9-1-7: RATES:
All persons connecting with the water system of the city or taking and using
water from the city waterworks system shall pay for such water, as measured by
the aforementioned meter, at the rates or fees set forth in this section.
   A.   Inside Corporate Limits: For all consumers of water residing within the
corporate limits of the city, the retail rate per 100 cubic feet of water is
the amount equal to the rate charged per 100 cubic feet of water by the city of
Chicago for the supply of water to the city, as such rate may be amended from
time to time, plus the applicable rates and fees listed in the tables below:
Monthly Fixed Facility Charge
Water Meter Size Rate
Monthly Fixed Facility Charge
Water Meter Size Rate
1" Meter         $4.30
1 ½" Meter      $18.43
2" Meter         $24.57
3" Meter         $61.43
4" Meter         $122.86
6" Meter         $245.71
8" Meter         $331.71
 
Operation and Maintenance Rates
 Per 100 cubic feet
 of water
Operation and Maintenance Rates
                                     Per 100 cubic feet
                                     of water
January 1, 2020 to December 31, 2020 $2.22
January 1, 2021 to December 31, 2021 $2.23
January 1, 2022 to December 31, 2022 $2.24
January 1, 2023 to December 31, 2023 $2.25
January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 $2.50
Effective January 1, 2025            $2.75
 
Capital Improvement Fees
 Per 100 cubic feet
 of water
Capital Improvement Fees
                                     Per 100 cubic feet
                                     of water
January 1, 2020 to December 31, 2020 $0.70
January 1, 2021 to December 31, 2021 $0.80
January 1, 2022 to December 31, 2022 $0.90
January 1, 2023 to December 31, 2023 $1.00
January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 $2.00
January 1, 2025 to December 31, 2025 $3.00
January 1, 2026 to December 31, 2026 $4.00
Effective January 1, 2027            $5.00
 
   B.   Outside Corporate Limits, Retail Consumers: For all retail consumers of
water residing outside the corporate limits of the city, the retail rate per
100 cubic feet of water is the amount equal to the product of the retail rate
defined in subsection A1 of this section multiplied by two.
   C.   Outside Corporate Limits, Companies:
      1.   Companies located outside the city limits, seeking to purchase water
from the city waterworks system, shall be required to contact the public works
department and apply for the rental of a hydrant meter and pay a nonrefundable
permit fee of $100.00 for the use of such meter in addition to the rate charged
for the water being drawn and metered from the hydrant. The use of hydrant
meters is at the discretion of the Director of Public Works, or their designee.
In instances where the company has a tanker truck to be filled, the city shall
determine the rate charged for such water usage based on tanker capacity; such
tankers shall be filled at the city’s water pumping stations or other location
determined by the Director of Public Works, or their designee.
      2.   A refundable deposit equal to the cost of the hydrant meter will be
required. Any damage to the meter upon its return shall be deducted from this
deposit before it is returned.
   D.   Periodic Billing; Exception: The city shall bill all consumers of city
water periodically at intervals of approximately every one or two months, as
determined by the Director of Finance; however, all consumers whose annual bill
for the last 12 months was $1,200.00 or more or whose annual bill is
anticipated by the director of finance to be the same amount or more may be
billed on a monthly basis.
The rates charged by the city for water shall be as herein set forth; provided,
that the bill for such water charges shall be paid within 21 days after the
mailing of bills for the same. In the event that such water charges are not
paid within 21 days after the mailing of bills, a penalty of 10 percent of the
amount of the billed water charges shall be added to the same and payable from
the consumer. (Ord. M-25-89, 7-3-1989; amd. Ord. M-24-93, 6-7-1993; Ord. M-41-
97, 7-7-1997; 2002 Code; Ord. M-4-13, 6-3-2013; Ord. M-49-19, 12-16-2019; Ord.
M-16-23, 9- 18-23; Ord. M-5-24, 4-1-2024)
9-1-8: TAP-ON FEES:
Pursuant to its home rule authority and the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-150-1 specifically allowing municipalities to provide for the
provision of fair and reasonable charges for connection to any such system in
addition to charges covered by normal taxes, any new or additional users to the
system shall be charged a connection fee. The funds collected by the city shall
be used for its own general corporate purposes with the primary application
being to the necessary expanse of the works of the system.
   A.   The benefited areas in which connection or tap on fees would be allowed
shall be attached to each request.
   B.   The cost of construction for said improvement shall be determined by
the director of engineering as such improvements or construction are deemed
necessary. (Ord. M-4-02, 2-4-2002)
9-1-9: DELINQUENT AND NONPAYMENT OF WATER BILLS:
   A.   Nonpayment; Service Shutoff: All water bill rents shall be paid
promptly when due and the finance department shall be prohibited from allowing
credit to anyone. In the event any bill or statement of water consumed on any
premises exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00) shall remain unpaid for thirty
(30) days after the mailing of such bill or statement, the director of public
works shall cause the water to be shut off from the premises upon ten (10)
days' notification until such time as all water consumed on the premises and
reported on the bill or statement is paid in full, together with all costs or
damages sustained by the city in the collection thereof. Should any water bill
rent remain unpaid for more than two (2) billing cycles, no matter what the
amount due the city, the director of public works shall cause the water to be
shut off from the premises. In addition thereto, a fifty dollar ($50.00)
service charge shall be added to the bill for water turned on during normal
business hours and a seventy five dollar ($75.00) service charge shall be added
to the bill for water turned on during evening and weekend hours. (Ord. M-42-
03, 7-21-2003)
   B.   Collection Of Tenant's Unpaid Water Charges: If the consumer whose bill
is unpaid is a tenant of the premises and the director of finance and
administrative services has notice of this, a notice shall be mailed to the
owner of said premises if his address is known to the director of finance and
administrative services, whenever such bill remains unpaid for a period of
sixty (60) days or more after it has been rendered. The failure of the director
of finance and administrative services to mail such notice, or the failure of
the owner to receive such notice, shall not affect the right of the city to
collect the tenant's unpaid water charges from the owner of the premises. (Ord.
M-12-84, 7-16-1984; amd. Ord. M-24-93, 6-7-1993)
   C.   Water Account Delinquency; Lien:
      1.   Placement Of Lien: Whenever a bill for water service remains unpaid
sixty (60) days after it has been rendered, the city clerk shall file or cause
to be filed with the recorder of deeds of Cook County or in the office of the
registrar of titles of Cook County, a statement of lien claim.
This statement shall contain the legal description of the premises served with
water, the amount of the unpaid bill and a notice that the city claims a lien
for said amount, as well as for all unpaid charges for water furnished,
subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
If the consumer of water, whose bill is unpaid, is not the owner of the
premises served, and the city clerk has notice of this, notice shall be mailed
to the owner of the premises, if his address be known to the city clerk, on the
same day that the notice of lien is filed as herein provided.
      2.   Foreclosure Of Lien: The property subject to a lien for unpaid water
charges shall be sold for nonpayment of same and the proceeds of the sale shall
be applied to pay the charges after deducting costs as is the case in the
foreclosure of statutory liens.
The foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in the name of the city.
The city clerk is hereby authorized and directed to institute or cause to be
instituted such proceedings, in the name of the city, in any court having
jurisdiction over such matters, against any property for which the water bill
remains unpaid sixty (60) days after it has been rendered. (Ord. M-38-89, 9-5-
1989)
      3.   Director To Keep Schedule Of Water Account Rates: It shall be the
duty of the director of public works to keep on file in his office printed
schedules of water rates, as from time to time are established by the mayor and
city council, for use and reference thereto by consumers or their agents upon
application. (Ord. M-38-89, 9-5-1989; amd. Ord. M-59-93, 12-6-1993)
9-1-10: WATER USE RESTRICTIONS:
The director of public works shall have the authority to restrict the use of
water in the city in order to ensure adequate water pressures during certain
months of the year. Specifically exempt from the requirements set forth below
are hand held hoses or sprinkling cans. Such restriction of water usage shall
be enforced as follows: (Ord. M-35-91, 8-19-1991; amd. Ord. M-59-93, 12-6-1993)
   A.   Residential Properties: From and after May 15 of each year, to and
including September 15 of each year, the following restrictions shall apply:
(2002 Code)
      1.   Even Number Address: All residential property owners who reside or
occupy premises designated by a street address with an even number shall be
permitted to use water for lawn watering purposes on even numbered days of the
month only, between the hours of five o'clock (5:00) A.M. to eight o'clock (8:
00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
      2.   Odd Number Address: All residential property owners who reside or
occupy premises designated by a street address with an odd number shall be
permitted to use water for lawn watering purposes on odd numbered days of the
month only, between the hours of five o'clock (5:00) A.M. to eight o'clock (8:
00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. (Ord. M-35-
91, 8-19-1991)
   B.   Industrial, Commercial And Institutional Properties: From and after May
15 of each year, to and including September 15 of each year, the following
restrictions shall apply: (2002 Code)
      1.   Even Number Address: All industrial, commercial and institutional
properties who occupy premises designated by a street address with an even
number shall be permitted to use water for lawn watering purposes on even
numbered days of the month only, between the hours of five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
to eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. to ten o'clock (10:
00) P.M.
      2.   Odd Number Address: All industrial, commercial and institutional
properties who occupy premises designated by a street address with an odd
number shall be permitted to use water for lawn watering purposes on odd
numbered days of the month only, between the hours of five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
to eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. to ten o'clock (10:
00) P.M. (Ord. M-35-91, 8-19-1991)
   C.   WaterSense Label: Pursuant to 17 Illinois administrative code 3730.307
(c)(4) and subject to the Illinois plumbing code (77 Ill. adm. code 890) and
the lawn irrigation contractor and lawn sprinkler system registration code (77
Ill. adm. code 892), all new plumbing fixtures and irrigation controllers
installed after April 4, 2016, being the effective date hereof, shall bear the
WaterSense label (as designated by the U.S. environmental protection agency
WaterSense program), when such labeled fixtures are available.
   D.   Exceptions: Any exceptions to the above restrictions shall require a
special city permit. Such exceptions shall only be authorized by the director
of public works. (Ord. M-12-16, 4-4-2016)
9-1-11: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Injure Or Deface Property: No person shall wilfully or carelessly
break, deface, mar, injure, interfere with or disturb any building, machinery,
apparatus, fence, fixtures, reservoir, water tower or any appurtenance of the
waterworks of the city, or any public or private hydrant, stopcock box, shutoff
valve, water supply or service pipe, or any part thereof; nor shall any person
deposit anything in any stopcock box or commit any act tending to obstruct or
impair the intended use of the above mentioned items. (Ord. M-38-89, 9-5-1989)
   B.   Unlawful Use Of Hydrants: All hydrants erected in the city for the
purpose of extinguishing fires therein are hereby declared to be public
hydrants. No person other than members of the fire department and those
especially authorized by the mayor and city council, or their designees, and
then only for the uses and purposes of the department, or in the exercise of
the authority so delegated by the mayor and city council, shall open any of the
hydrants or attempt to draw water from same, or in any manner interfere with
any of the hydrants. (Ord. M-38-89, 9-5-1989; amd. 2002 Code)
9-1-12: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
a fine as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each such offense. Each day that such violation exists
shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. M-35-91, 8-19-1991; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER SYSTEM REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Sewer Permits
9-2-2: Sewer Connection Required
9-2-3: Private Sanitary Sewer Maintenance And Repair
9-2-4: Sewer Fee
9-2-5: Flood Control Rebate Program
9-2-6: Rear Yard Drainage Program
9-2-7: Use Of Public Sewers
9-2-1: SEWER PERMITS:
No person shall make any excavation in any street, avenue or other place for
the purpose of laying sewer lines without a written permit issued by the
Director of Community Development, and then only such persons as are authorized
to perform such work shall do the same, and the particular person to be
employed to do the work shall, in each case, be named in the permit. (Ord. M-
38-77, 11-7-1977)
9-2-2: SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED:
When any premises or tenement is to be utilized for human occupancy or
habitation, and when the sanitary sewer main or combined sewer main is within
two hundred fifty feet (250') of any portion of the lot, parcel, or plot of
land where such premises or tenement exists or is to be constructed, then the
premises or tenement shall be connected to the sanitary sewer main or combined
sewer main. (Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-2014)
9-2-3: PRIVATE SANITARY SEWER MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR:
   A.   The City shall be responsible for maintaining all City sanitary and
combined sewer mains within its corporate limits. The City shall not be
responsible for the maintenance, repair, or replacement of any sanitary sewer
lateral connecting a private parcel or structure to a public sanitary or
combined sewer main unless the City Council has formally accepted ownership and
responsibility for the lateral by resolution or ordinance duly adopted.
   B.   Private land owners shall be solely responsible for the maintenance,
repair, and replacement of sanitary sewer laterals connecting their parcels or
structures with public sanitary or combined sewer mains, including portions of
laterals located under public rights-of-way or easements under the jurisdiction
and control of the City or other governmental entities.
   C.   The City will partially reimburse residential land owners who incur
costs maintaining, repairing, and replacing portions of sanitary sewer laterals
located under public rights-of-way and easements pursuant to a cost sharing
program to be known as the City's "Sanitary Sewer Lateral Program". The
Sanitary Sewer Lateral Program will be administered by the City's Department of
Community and Economic Development in accordance with a written policy
initially adopted by the City Council and amended from time to time at the
direction of the City Council.
   D.   The City Council does hereby reauthorize the Program and declare that
is shall be conducted in accordance with the “Sanitary Sewer Lateral Program
Policy,” a copy of which is set out below. The Policy may be amended from time
to time by the City Council by duly approved motion directing the City Manager
to revise the policy.
CITY OF DES PLAINES
SANITARY SEWER LATERAL PROGRAM
This policy is adopted pursuant to Ordinance No. M-23-17 "An Ordinance Amending
Section
9-2-3 of the City of Des Plaines City Code Regarding Sewer and Lateral
Maintenance and Reauthorizing a Policy for Reimbursement of Private Lateral
Repair and Reconstruction" which was adopted by the City Council on November
20, 2017.
BACKGROUND: The City of Des Plaines is responsible for the maintenance, repair,
and replacement of all city sanitary and combined sewer mains. Private
landowners are responsible for the maintenance, repair, and replacement of the
lateral sewer lines that connect structures to the public sewer mains. Private
laterals may extend from private property under public roads, other rights-of-
way, and publicly held easements. In the event that a lateral becomes blocked
on private property, the owner of that property is solely responsible for all
costs associated with maintaining (including cleaning and rodding), repairing,
or replacing the blocked lateral. However, if a blockage of a homeowner's
private lateral occurs under a public right-of-way or easement, the City will
provide partial reimbursement of costs in accordance with this policy.
PROGRAM DETAILS AND PROCEDURES: The City of Des Plaines Sanitary Sewer Lateral
Program aims to provide partial financial assistance to residential homeowners
dealing with blocked sanitary sewer laterals. Commercial property owners do not
qualify for the Program. A sanitary sewer lateral is the section of a
homeowner's sewer line that runs from the house to the public sewer main which
may be located in a street, parkway, other right-of-way, or easement area. If a
homeowner experiences a sanitary sewer back-up, the following steps must be
followed in order for any work to be eligible for financial assistance by the
City.
STEP 1: The homeowner must first call the Public Works & Engineering Department
at (847) 391-5464 to request an inspection/televising of the adjacent public
sewer main and confirm that the main is not blocked and causing the back-up.
The homeowner does not need to be present for this inspection. Any blockages
discovered in the public sewer main will be cleared by the City or its
contractors at no cost to the homeowner. The City's inspection will not extend
to any private sanitary sewer laterals as the City does not inspect/televise
homeowner's lateral sewer lines.
STEP 2: If a blockage in the public sewer main is not the cause of the back-up,
the homeowner will be required to hire a sewer contractor/plumber to inspect/
televise the homeowner's private sanitary sewer lateral. Upon request, the City
will provide a list of licensed and bonded sewer repair contractors/plumbers.
If the sewer contractor/plumber discovers a blockage located on the homeowner's
property, the homeowner will be solely responsible for all costs associated
with the maintenance, repair, or replacement of the sanitary sewer lateral. If,
however, the blockage is determined to be in a portion of the sanitary sewer
lateral located within the public right-of-way, the homeowner must contact the
City's Plumbing Inspector at 847.391.5305 to verify this determination.
If the blockage of the sanitary sewer lateral is within the public right-of-way
(or easement) and can be cleared by rodding, the City will provide a
reimbursement of up to 30% of the rodding costs, up to a maximum reimbursement
amount of $100.
If the blockage cannot be cleared by rodding and requires either repair or
replacement of a portion of the sanitary sewer lateral with the public right-
of-way (or easement) the City's Plumbing Inspector will either (a) obtain a
quote from a sewer repair contractor or (b) authorize the homeowner's sewer
contractor/plumber to proceed with the repair or replacement. The homeowner
will be responsible for all up-front costs associated with the repair or
replacement, but the City will provide a reimbursement of up to 30% of the
repair/replacement costs, up to a maximum reimbursement amount of $4,000. For
both rodding services and repair/replacement work, the City will require the
homeowner provide the Plumbing Inspector with documentation that the rodding or
repair/replacement work, including any necessary restoration of the public
right-of-way, has been satisfactorily completed. The City reserves the right to
conduct on-premises inspections of the rodding or repair/replacement work as a
condition or releasing any reimbursement payments provided for under the
Program. After providing the reimbursements described above, the City may issue
a Form 1099- MISC to homeowners who have participated in the Program.
Questions regarding the Sanitary Sewer Lateral Program should be directed to
Paul Berner, Plumbing Inspector (847) 391-5305.
(Ord. M-23-17, 11-20-2017)
9-2-4: SEWER FEE:
   A.   Fee Imposed: A sewer fee of $1.18 per 100 cubic feet of water used is
hereby established. The determination of the amount of water used will be done
in accordance with chapter 1 of this title. The sewer fee will be charged to
all City of Des Plaines sanitary or combined sewer users within the City’s
corporate limits. This fee shall not apply to homes serviced by Illinois
American Water, or its successor, or properties served by private septic
systems. (Ord. M-5-12, 2-6-2012; amd. Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-2014)
   B.   Collection: The City Finance Department will collect the sewer fee. The
fee will be included on the City of Des Plaines utility bill.
   C.   Late Payment Penalty: Failure to pay the sewer fee within 21 days of
the mailing of said bill will result in a 10% late penalty charge. The City may
bring an action to collect any unpaid sewer fee. (Ord. M-94-07, 12-17-2007;
amd. Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-2014)
   D.   Effective Date: The sewer fee herein provided for will be expressly
retroactive to and effective for consumption used on and after January 1, 2012.
(Ord. M-5-12, 2-6-2012; amd. Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-2014; Ord. M-16-23, 9-18-23)
9-2-5: FLOOD CONTROL REBATE PROGRAM:
In 1997, the City established a Flood Rebate Program. The program was made
retroactive to January 1, 1994. The program was established to assist the
owners of property located within the City of Des Plaines with the cost of
installing flood control devices on private property to prevent sewer backups,
basement seepage, and overland flooding. Under the program, property owners
would be reimbursed up to thirty percent (30%) of the cost of flood mitigation/
prevention projects performed on a residence up to a maximum of two thousand
dollars ($2,000.00), whichever is less.
Flood mitigation/prevention projects include, but are not limited to: overhead
sewers; basement flood control systems; backwater valves in basements or yards;
glass block basement windows in cases where a residence is subject to flooding;
footing tile with sump pumps; basement waterproofing; backup battery sump
pumps; sump pump connections to storm sewers. Property owners shall be required
to submit documentation, including bid estimates, contractor invoices, proof of
payment, and permit at the time of application for the Flood Rebate Program.
Maintenance projects are not included as a part of this program. (Ord. M-51-09,
12-7-2009; amd. Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-2014; Ord. M-23-17, 11-20-2017)
9-2-6: REAR YARD DRAINAGE PROGRAM:
   A.   There is hereby established a Rear Yard Drainage Program which assists
owners of property located within the City of Des Plaines with the installation
of rear yard storm sewers to alleviate flooding on private property. The
program applies to "typical" installations, which are defined as the
installation of a minimum six inch (6") diameter storm sewer lateral from the
rear lot line of the property to an existing storm sewer within the street.
Under the program, property owners are required to fund twenty five percent
(25%) of the cost of a "typical" rear yard drainage installation performed on a
residence.
   B.   Prior to the onset of the rear yard drainage improvement, the property
owner(s) must sign a written agreement, as prepared by the City Attorney, to
participate in cost sharing of twenty five percent (25%) of the total cost. For
the purposes of this program, a "typical" installation means that the owner(s)
will be obligated to fund twenty five percent (25%) of the cost of the first
two hundred feet (200') of the improvement. In the alternative, the owner(s)
may fund their twenty five percent (25%) share of the cost by use of a special
service area with the City, to a maximum of fifteen (15) years. (Ord. M-7-10,
2-16-2010; amd. Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-2014)
9-2-7: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   B.   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Director of Public Works and
Engineering. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be
discharged on approval of the Director of Public Works and Engineering to a
storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
   C.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
      2.   Any water or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with proper
operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders,
sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood,
unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and
paper dishes, cup, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage
grinders.
   D.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Director of Public Works and Engineering that such wastes can
harm either the sewers sewage substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it
appears likely in the opinion of the Director of Public Works and Engineering
that such wastes can harm either the sewers sewage will give consideration to
such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and
velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of
the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of
treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and maximum limits
established by regulatory agencies. The substances prohibited are:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (1500 F), (650 C).
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred (100) mg/l or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between thirty-two (320) and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (1500 F),
(650 C).
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Director of Public Works and Engineering.
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solution whether neutralized or not.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Director of Public Works and Engineering for such materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Director of Public Works and Engineering as necessary after
treatment of the composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the State,
Federal, or other public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the
receiving waters.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Director of Public Works
and Engineering in compliance with applicable State or Federal regulations.
      8.   Any wastes or waters having a pH in excess of 9.5.
      9.   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as Hg
at any time except as permitted by the Director of Public Works and Engineering
in compliance with applicable State and Federal regulations.
      10.   Any cyanide in excess of 0.0025 mg/l at any time except as
permitted by the Director of Public Works and Engineering in compliance with
applicable State and Federal regulations.
      11.   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         (b)    Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works;
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of water constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
      12.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
   E.   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged
to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in Subsection D of this Section, and/or which are in
violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in 40 CFR 403, June 26,
1978 and any amendments thereto, and which in the judgment of Director of
Public Works and Engineering may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage
works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Director of Public Works
and Engineering may:
      1.    Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of Subsection K of this Section. If the Director of Public Works and
Engineering permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the design
and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Director of Public Works and Engineering, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   F.   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Director of Public Works and Engineering they are necessary for
the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or
any flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
Director of Public Works and Engineering, and shall be located as to be readily
and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   G.   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided,
they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation
by the owner at his expense.
   H.   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole and, when
required by the Director of Public Works and Engineering permits the
pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the design and installation, the
owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes
shall install a suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters
and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation,
sampling, and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be
accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with
plans approved by the Director of Public Works and Engineering permits the
pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the design and installation. The
manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and shall be maintained
by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   I.   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
water and wastes to illustrate compliance with this ordinance and any special
conditions for discharge established by the City or regulatory agencies having
jurisdiction over the discharge. The number, type, and frequency of laboratory
analyses to be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the City, but
no less than once per year the industry must supply a complete analysis of the
constituents of the wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the
Federal, State, and local standards are being met. The owner shall report the
results of measurements and laboratory analyses to the City at such times and
in such manner as prescribed by City. The owner shall bear the expense of all
measurements, analyses, and reporting required by the City. At such times as
deemed necessary the City reserves the right to take measurements and samples
for analyses by an outside laboratory service.
   J.   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this ordinance shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of IEPA Division of Laboratories Manual of
Laboratory Methods, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or
upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event that no
special manhole has been required the control manhole shall be considered to be
the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. The
particular analyses involved will determine whether a twenty-four (24) hour
composite of all outfalls of a premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids
analyses are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are
determined from periodic grab samples.
   K.   No statement contained in this Section shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the City and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the City for treatment, subject to payment therefore, by the
industrial concern provided such payments are in accordance with Federal and
State guidelines for User Charge System.
   L.   Powers and Authority of Inspectors:
      1.   The Director of Public Works and Engineering and other duly
authorized employees of the City, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency,
and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, bearing proper credentials and
identification, shall be permitted to enter all properties for purposes of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with
the provisions of this ordinance. The Director of Public Works and Engineering
or his representative shall have no authority to inquire into any processes,
including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper, or other
industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of
discharge to the sewers or waterway or facilities for waste treatment.
      2.   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred
to in Section 1 above, the Director of Public Works and Engineering or duly
authorized employees of the City, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency,
and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency shall observe all safety rules
applicable to the premises established by the company and the company shall be
held harmless for injury or death to the City employees and the City shall
indemnify the company against liability claims and demands for personal injury
or property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging
and sampling operating, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure
of the company to maintain conditions as required in subsection I of this
section.
      3.   The Director of Public Works and Engineering and other duly
authorized employees of the City bearing proper credentials and identification
shall be permitted to enter all private properties through which the City holds
a duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if
any, on said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
   M.   Penalties:
      1.   Any person found to be violating any provisions of this ordinance
shall be served by the City with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations. The City may revoke any permit for sewage
disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of this ordinance.
      2.   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided in Subsection M.1 of this Section, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
and on conviction thereof shall be fined as provided in the general penalty in
section
1-4-1  of this code for each such offense. Each day that a violation is
permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
      3.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this ordinance shall
become liable to the City by reasons of such violation.
   N.   Reimbursement: Any person or entity violating any of the provisions of
this ordinance shall be liable to reimburse the City for actual costs incurred
related to the cleaning of sewers, streets or other damaged City property. The
director of finance shall invoice violator for actual costs incurred related to
the cleaning of sewers, streets or other damaged City property. Failure to
reimburse the City within 21 days after the mailing of said invoice will result
in a penalty of 10 percent of the amount billed. Charges shall be added to the
same and payable from the violator. In the event that such invoice remains
unpaid for a period of sixty (60) days or more, and if the violator, whose bill
is unpaid, is a tenant of the premises, the director of finance may also mail a
notice to the owner of said premises. The failure of the director of finance to
mail such notice, or the failure of the owner to receive such notice, shall not
affect the right of the City to collect the unpaid charges from the owner of
the premises. (Ord. M-3-20, 2-18-2020; amd. Ord. M-7-25, 4-7-2025)
CHAPTER 3
STORMWATER CONVEYANCE SYSTEMS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Definitions
9-3-2: Purpose
9-3-3: Regulation
9-3-4: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
9-3-5: Storm Sewer Fee
9-3-6: Penalty
9-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply:
FLOODPLAIN: The area adjacent to a watercourse which has been or may be
intermittently included in the regulatory floodplain maps prepared by the IDNR/
OWR for the administration of the floodplain regulations for the Des Plaines
River watershed and its tributary watersheds; or in lieu of these maps, the
flood insurance maps prepared by federal insurance administration.
MANMADE AND NATURAL WATERCOURSES: A natural or artificial channel of
perceptible extent and depth, with definite bed and banks to confine and
conduct continuously or periodically flowing water.
STORM SEWERS: A watercourse which carries storm and surface waters and
drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes. (Ord. M-28-89, 8-
7-1989; amd. 2002 Code)
9-3-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to keep the stormwater conveyance systems in the
city (i.e., storm sewers, manmade and natural watercourses) free and clear of
restrictions so as to avoid hindering their performance and thereby minimizing
the expense and inconvenience to individual property owners and the general
public because of the flooding caused by such restrictions. (Ord. M-28-89, 8-7-
1989)
9-3-3: REGULATION:
It shall be unlawful to keep or dispose of grass clippings, trash, debris,
obstructions or unwanted materials into the city's storm sewers or within or
along banks of manmade or natural watercourses or in adjacent floodplain areas
which may wash into streams and sewers within the city. (Ord. M-28-89, 8-7-
1989)
9-3-4: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
The director of public works and other duly authorized employees of the city,
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter upon
all properties in the city for the purpose of inspection, observation and
measurement, to enforce the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. M-28-89, 8-7-
1989)
9-3-5: STORM SEWER FEE:
   A.   Fee Imposed: A storm sewer fee of fifty seven cents ($0.57) is hereby
established, per one hundred (100) cubic feet of water consumed, plus an
additional thirty three cents ($0.33) is established, per one hundred (100)
cubic feet of water consumed, which will be earmarked for the capital projects
fund in order to accelerate the stormwater master plan. This additional thirty
three cents ($0.33) will be collected January 1, 2010 through December 31,
2014. The determination of the amount of water consumed will be done in
accordance with chapter 1 of this title. The storm sewer fee will be charged to
all consumers of water within the city's corporate limits. For those
residential and commercial units within the corporate limits that are not
connected to the city's waterworks system, and are invoiced by the city for
garbage pick up, a flat fee of four dollars fifty eight cents ($4.58) per month
will be charged to them as the storm sewer fee. An additional flat fee of two
dollars sixty five cents ($2.65) per month is hereby established, which will be
earmarked for the capital projects fund in order to accelerate the stormwater
master plan. This additional two dollars sixty five cents ($2.65) per month
will be collected January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2014.
   B.   Collection: The city finance department will collect the storm sewer
fee. The fee will be included on the utility bill invoiced to all water
consumers within the corporate limits, and all residential and commercial units
in the city receiving a bill from the city for garbage pick up.
   C.   Late Payment Penalty: Failure to pay the storm sewer fee within twenty
one (21) days of the date of mailing of said bill will result in a ten percent
(10%) late penalty charge. The city may bring an action to collect any unpaid
storm sewer fee.
   D.   Effective Date: The storm sewer fee herein provided for will be
effective with the water and garbage bills dated August 31, 1998, and
thereafter. The additional two dollars sixty five cents ($2.65) per month will
be effective on January 1, 2010, and thereafter until December 31, 2014. (Ord.
M-29-13, 11-4-2013)
9-3-6: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided, any person found to be in violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be served a written notice by the city stating
the nature of the violation and given a ten (10) day period of time in which to
correct such violation. The offender shall, within the time period stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
Any person who shall continue to violate beyond the ten (10) day time
limitation specified hereinabove shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each such offense. Each day that a violation is
permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. M-28-89, 8-7-
1989; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 4
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL AND BACKFLOW PREVENTION
SECTION:
9-4-1: Enforcement
9-4-2: Cross Connection Control General Policy
9-4-3: Definitions
9-4-4: Cross Connections Prohibited
9-4-5: Survey And Investigations
9-4-6: Where Protection Required
9-4-7: Type Of Protection Required
9-4-8: Backflow Prevention Devices
9-4-9: Inspection And Maintenance
9-4-10: Booster Pumps
9-4-11: Violations
9-4-12: Corrective Actions
9-4-1: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   If, in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code or in the judgment of
the plumbing inspector, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for
the safety of the public water supply system, the plumbing inspector will give
notice to the water customer to install such an approved device immediately.
The water customer shall, at his own expense, install such an approved device
at a location and in a manner in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code and
all applicable local regulations, and shall have inspections and tests made of
such approved devices as required by the Illinois plumbing code and local
regulations.
   B.   No person shall establish or permit to be established or maintain or
permit to be maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary or
emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply of the city
of Des Plaines may enter the supply or distribution system of the city, unless
such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of connection
and use of such supply shall have been approved by the director of public works
or the water systems operator and the Illinois environmental protection agency.
   C.   It shall be the duty of the plumbing inspector to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the
public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be made a
matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two (2) years, or
as often as the plumbing inspector shall deem necessary. Records of such
surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at least
five (5) years.
   D.   The approved cross connection control device inspector shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the public water supply or distribution system of the city for the purpose of
verifying the presence or absence of cross connections, and the plumbing
inspector or his authorized agent shall have the right to enter at any
reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water supply
or distribution system of the city for the purpose of verifying information
submitted by the customer regarding the required cross connection control
inspection. On demand the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so served
shall furnish to the plumbing inspector any information which he may request
regarding the piping systems or water use on such property. The refusal of such
information, when demanded, shall, within the discretion of the plumbing
inspector, be deemed evidence of the presence of improper connections as
provided in this chapter.
   E.   That the plumbing inspector of the city is hereby authorized to direct
and request the operator of the system to discontinue water service to the
violator's property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of
this chapter is known to exist and to take such other precautionary measures as
he may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public
water supply distribution mains. Water service to such property shall not be
restored until such conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance
with the provisions of this chapter and all costs associated with the
disconnection and reconnection of the public system shall be borne by the user.
(Ord. M-32-87, 1-18-1988)
9-4-2: CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL GENERAL POLICY:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of these rules and regulations is:
      1.   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer's water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system.
      2.   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross connections,
actual or potential, between the public or consumer's potable water system and
nonpotable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or systems containing
substances of unknown or questionable quality.
      3.   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer's potable water systems.
   B.   Application: These rules and regulations shall apply to all premises
served by the public potable water supply system of the city.
   C.   Policy: The owner or official custodian shall be responsible for
protection of the public water supply system from contamination due to backflow
or backsiphonage of contaminants through the customer's water service
connection. If, in the judgment of the plumbing inspector or his authorized
representative, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the
safety of the public water supply system, the plumbing inspector shall give
notice to the consumer to install such approved backflow prevention device at
each service connection to the premises. The consumer after due written notice
and within the prescribed time indicated on the notice shall install such
approved device or devices at his own expense; failure or refusal on the part
of the consumer to install such device or devices immediately shall constitute
grounds for discontinuing water service to the premises until such device or
devices have been installed. The consumer shall retain records of installation,
maintenance, testing and repair as required in subsection
9-4-5D4 of this chapter for a period of at least five (5) years. (Ord. M-32-87,
1-18-1988)
9-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply to the interpretation and enforcement of
these regulations:
AGENCY: The Illinois environmental protection agency.
APPROVED: Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the research
foundation for cross connection control of the University of Southern
California, American Waterworks Association, American National Standards
Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation.
AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEMS: A source of water outside of the city's public water
supply system. No connection to the city's public water supply system shall be
made with any other water system without the approval of the local authority.
BACKFLOW: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into the
distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: Any device, method or type of construction intended
to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for backflow
prevention in Illinois must meet the standards of the Illinois plumbing code
and the Illinois environmental protection agency.
CONSUMER OR CUSTOMER: The owner official custodian or person in control of any
premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
CONSUMER'S OR CUSTOMER'S WATER SYSTEM: Any water system serving the premises,
commencing at the outlet side of the service pipe shutoff valve location.
CONTAMINATION: The introduction into water of microorganisms, chemicals, wastes
or wastewater in a concentration that makes water unfit for its intended use.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any connection through which a supply of potable water could
be contaminated or polluted.
DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY: An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves, including tight shutoff valves located at each end of the
assembly and suitable connections for testing the water tightness of each check
valve.
FIXED AIR GAP: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere
between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the receptacle.
HEALTH HAZARD: Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well
being of consumers. The word "severe" as used to qualify "health hazard" means
a hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
INSPECTION: A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the Illinois plumbing
code, 77 Illinois administrative code 890.
LOCAL AUTHORITY: The mayor and city council of the city of Des Plaines.
NONPOTABLE WATER: Water not safe for drinking, personal or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 35 Illinois administrative code 604.
PLUMBING: The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or extension
of a plumbing system by any person. Plumbing includes all piping, fixtures,
appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes, including
without limitation lawn sprinkler systems from the source of a private water
supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley or at the curb to
within and about any building or buildings where a person or persons live, work
or assemble. Plumbing includes all piping from discharge of pumping units to
and including pressure tanks in water supply systems. Plumbing includes all
piping, fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a building drain and a
sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any building or buildings
where a person or persons live, work or assemble from the point of connection
of such building drain to the building sewer or private sewage disposal system
five feet (5') beyond the foundation walls.
PLUMBING INSPECTOR: An Illinois state licensed plumbing inspector.
POLLUTION: The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as to
constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
POTABLE WATER: Water which meets the requirements of 35 Illinois administrative
code 604 for drinking, culinary and domestic purposes.
POTENTIAL CROSS CONNECTION: A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
PROCESS FLUID(S): Any fluid or solution which may be chemically, biologically
or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form of concentration such as would
constitute a health, pollutional or system hazard if introduced into the public
or a consumer's potable water system. This includes, but is not limited to:
   A.   Polluted or contaminated waters;
   B.   Process waters;
   C.   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which may
have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
   D.   Cooling waters;
   E.   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells, lakes,
streams or irrigation systems;
   F.   Chemicals in solution or suspension;
   G.   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids used in
industrial or other processes, or for firefighting purposes.
PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM: All mains, pipes and structures owned and/or
maintained by the city of Des Plaines through which water is obtained and
distributed to the public, including wells and well structures, intakes and
cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage tanks and
appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended for use for
the purpose of furnishing potable water.
REDUCED PRESSURE ZONE PRINCIPAL BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE (RPZ): A device
containing a minimum of two (2) independently acting check valves together with
an automatically operated pressure differential relief valve located between
the two (2) check valves. During normal flow and at the cessation of normal
flow, the pressure between these two (2) checks shall be less than the supply
pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the differential relief
valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to maintain the pressure
between the check valves at less than the supply pressure. The unit must
include tightly closing shutoff valves located at each end of the device, and
each device shall be fitted with properly located test cocks.
SERVICE CONNECTION: The physical connection to the water main including all
fittings and appurtenances, through which water is supplied to the consumer.
SURVEY: The collection of information pertaining to a customer's piping system
regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply system and
must include the locations, type and most recent inspection and testing date of
all cross connection control devices and methods located within the customer's
piping system. The survey shall be completed on a form approved by the city.
(Ord. M-32-87, 1-18-1988)
9-4-4: CROSS CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Connections between the public water supply system and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited except when and where approved cross connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   B.   No onsite connection shall be permitted between the public water supply
system and any other water supply not of equal or better bacteriological and
chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis by the agency and/or
city. There shall be no arrangement or connection by which contamination may
enter the public water supply system. (Ord. M-32-87, 1-18-1988)
9-4-5: SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS:
   A.   The consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
certified cross connection control device inspector (cross connection control
device inspector (CCCDI) as defined in the agency's title 35, subtitle F,
chapter II, part 653), for the inspection of the presence or absence of cross
connections within the consumer's premises, and testing, repair and maintenance
of cross connection control devices within the consumer's premises.
   B.   On request by the plumbing inspector or his authorized representative,
or the operator of the system, the consumer shall furnish information regarding
the piping system or systems for water use within the consumers premises and
cross connection inspection results. The consumer's premises shall be open at
all reasonable times to the plumbing inspector for the verification of
information submitted by the consumer regarding the piping system or systems
for water use and cross connection inspection results.
   C.   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on the consumer's premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross connections to the consumer's water
system through which contamination or pollution could backflow into the
consumer's or the public potable water system. All cross connection control of
other plumbing inspections must be conducted in accordance with 225 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 320/3.
   D.   It is the responsibility and financial obligation of the water consumer
to prevent backflow into the public water supply system by ensuring that:
      1.   All cross connections are removed; or approved cross connection
control devices are installed for control of backflow and back siphonage.
      2.   Cross connection control devices shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer's instructions.
      3.   Cross connection control devices shall be inspected at least
annually by a person approved by the agency as a cross connection control
device inspector (CCCDI). The inspection of mechanical devices shall include
physical testing in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
      4.   Testing and records:
         a.   Each device shall be tested at least annually or more frequently
if recommended by the manufacturer or plumbing inspector.
         b.   Records submitted to the plumbing inspector shall be available
for inspection by agency personnel in accordance with 415 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/4.
         c.   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of the
most recent test, name and approval number of CCCDI, latest calibration date of
testing equipment and type and date of repairs.
         d.   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
            (1)    Date of each test;
            (2)    Name and approval number of person performing the
inspection;
            (3)    Test results/inspection;
            (4)    Repairs or servicing required;
            (5)    Repairs and date completed; and
            (6)    Services performed and date completed. (Ord. M-32-87, 1-18-
1988)
9-4-6: WHERE PROTECTION REQUIRED:
   A.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each water
service line to a consumer's water system when in the judgment of the plumbing
inspector or his authorized representative, actual or potential hazards to the
public water supply system may exist.
   B.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each water
service line to a consumer's water system where the following conditions exist:
      1.   Premises having an auxiliary water system, unless such auxiliary
water system is accepted as an additional source by the plumbing inspector and
the source is approved by the agency and local authority.
      2.   Premises where any substance(s) exist which can create an actual or
potential hazard to the public water supply system.
      3.   Premises having internal cross connections that, in the judgment of
the plumbing inspector are not correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements
which make it impractical to determine whether or not cross connections exist.
      4.   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross connections survey.
      5.   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established or re-established.
   C.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each water
line to a consumer's water system serving, but not necessarily limited to, the
following types of facilities unless the plumbing inspector determines that no
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system exist:
      1.   Hospital, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes.
      2.   Laboratories.
      3.   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities.
      4.   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or stormwater
pumping stations.
      5.   Food or beverage processing plants.
      6.   Chemical plants.
      7.   Metal plating industries.
      8.   Petroleum processing or storage plants.
      9.   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors.
      10.   Car washes. (Ord. M-32-87, 1-18-1988)
9-4-7: TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED:
   A.   The type of protection required shall depend on the degree of hazard
which exists as follows:
      1.   An approved fixed air gap shall be installed where the public water
supply system may be contaminated causing a severe health hazard.
      2.   An approved fixed air gap or an approved reduced pressure zone
principal backflow prevention device shall be installed where the public water
supply system may be contaminated causing a system or health hazard.
      3.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure zone principal backflow prevention device shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be polluted with substances that could cause a
pollution hazard not dangerous to health.
   B.   The type of protection required under section
9-4-6 of this chapter shall be an approved fixed proper air gap separation or
an approved reduced pressure principal backflow prevention device.
   C.   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for a
fire protection system, reduced pressure principal backflow preventers shall be
installed between the fire sprinkler systems connected to the public water
supply system when:
      1.   The sprinkler system contains antifreeze and/or chemical additives;
      2.   Water may be pumped into the system from another source can be
connected to the sprinkler system;
      3.   Piping material used for the sprinkler system is not approved for
potable use. (Ord. M-32-87, 1-18-1988)
9-4-8: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   A.   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by these rules and
regulations shall be approved by the Research Foundation for cross connection
control of the University of Southern California, American Waterworks
Association, American Society of Sanitary Engineering, or American National
Standards Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be in
compliance with applicable industry specification.
   B.   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with 35
Illinois administrative code 653.802, and only as specified by the Research
Foundation for Cross Connection Control of the University of Southern
California or applicable industry specifications. Maintenance as recommended by
the manufacturer of the device shall be performed. Manufacturer's maintenance
manual shall be available onsite. (Ord. M-32-87, 1-18-1988)
9-4-9: INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the consumer, at premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by these regulations are installed, to have
inspection, tests, maintenance and repair made in accordance with the following
schedule or more often when inspections indicate a need or are specified in
manufacturer's instructions:
      1.   Fixed proper air gap separation shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter.
      2.   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested for
tightness at time of installation and at least annually thereafter, and
required service performed within fifteen (15) days.
      3.   Reduced pressure principal backflow prevention devices shall be
tested at least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer.
   B.   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
state as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
   C.   Each device shall have a tag attached including the information as
required in subsections
9-4-5D4c and D4d of this chapter.
   D.   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer within fifteen (15) days or as specified by the plumbing inspector.
   E.   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
plumbing inspector. (Ord. M-32-87, 1-18-1988)
9-4-10: BOOSTER PUMPS:
   A.   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cutoff
device designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to twenty (20) psi or less.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low pressure
cutoff device in proper working order and to certify to the plumbing inspector
at least once a year that the device is operable. (Ord. M-32-87, 1-18-1988)
9-4-11: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   The plumbing inspector may deny or discontinue, after reasonable notice
to the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises wherein any
backflow prevention device required by these regulations is not installed,
tested, maintained and repaired in a manner acceptable to the plumbing
inspector, or it is found that the backflow prevention device has been removed
or bypassed, or if an unprotected cross connection exists on the premises, or
if a low pressure cutoff required by these regulations is not installed and
maintained in working order.
   B.   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the consumer
has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance with
these regulations and to the satisfaction of the plumbing inspector, and the
required reconnection fee is paid. (Ord. M-32-87, 1-18-1988)
9-4-12: CORRECTIVE ACTIONS:
   A.   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking such other
action as it deems necessary to prevent or remedy a violation of this chapter.
   B.   After the adoption and approval hereof the ordinance shall 1) be
printed or published in book or pamphlet form, published by the authority of
the city council, or 2) within thirty (30) days after the adoption and approval
hereof be published in a newspaper published in and with a general circulation
within the city. (Ord. M-32-87, 1-18-1988)
CHAPTER 5
CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
SECTION:
9-5-1: Purpose And Scope
9-5-2: Definitions
9-5-3: Annual Registration Required
9-5-4: Permit Required; Applications And Fees
9-5-5: Action On Permit Applications
9-5-6: Effect Of Permit
9-5-7: Revised Permit Drawings
9-5-8: Insurance
9-5-9: Indemnification
9-5-10: Security
9-5-11: Permit Suspension And Revocation
9-5-12: Change Of Ownership Or Owner's Identity Or Legal Status
9-5-13: General Construction Standards
9-5-14: Traffic Control
9-5-15: Location Of Facilities
9-5-16: Construction Methods And Materials
9-5-17: Vegetation Control
9-5-18: Removal, Relocation, Or Modifications Of Utility Facilities
9-5-19: Cleanup And Restoration
9-5-20: Maintenance And Emergency Maintenance
9-5-21: Variances
9-5-22: Penalties
9-5-23: Enforcement
9-5-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the City’s
jurisdiction and other City-owned property, which will provide public benefit
consistent with the preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual
qualities of the City rights-of-way and other City-owned property.
   B.   Facilities Subject To This Chapter include:
      1.   All facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within
the public rights-of-way within the jurisdiction of the City.
      2.   Facilities allowed, by lease, license, easement, or other
contractual agreement with the City to be constructed on any City building,
structure, or property.
   C.   Franchises, Licenses Or Similar Agreements: The City, in its discretion
and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a franchise, license
or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their facilities on, over,
above, along, upon, under, across or within the City rights-of-way or upon any
City Property. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the City enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the City may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with this
chapter.
   D.   Effect Of Franchises, Licenses Or Similar Agreements:
      1.   Utilities Other Than Telecommunications Providers: In the event that
a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise, license or
similar agreement with the City, such franchise, license or similar agreement
shall govern and control during the term of such agreement and any lawful
renewal or extension thereof.
      2.   Telecommunications Providers: In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the City and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   E.   Conflicts With Other Chapters: This chapter supersedes all chapters or
parts of chapters adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict.
   F.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
Federal or State laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the
maximum extent possible without violating Federal or State laws or regulations.
   G.   Sound Engineering Judgment: The City shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this chapter when the City so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the City
to regulate its rights-of-way for the protection of the public health, safety
and welfare.
   H.   A facility lawfully established prior to the effective date of this
chapter may continue to be maintained, repaired and operated by the utility as
presently constructed and located, except as may be otherwise provided in any
applicable franchise, license or similar agreement. (Ord. M-14-18, 6-18-2018;
Amd. Ord. M-13-20, 10-19-2020)
9-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter and unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the
words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in 92 Illinois Administrative Code section 530.30, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
AASHTO: American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
ANSI: American National Standards Institute.
ASTM: American Society for Testing and Materials.
APPLICANT: A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
BACKFILL: The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a trench
or pit.
BORE OR BORING: To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the insertion
of a pipe or electrical conductor.
CARRIER PIPE: The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be transported.
CASING: A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors and fiber optic devices.
CITY: The City of Des Plaines.
CITY PROPERTY: Any parcel of real estate owned, leased, or otherwise controlled
by the City, including dedicated rights-of-way.
CLEAR ZONE: The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a non- recoverable slope, and a clear runout
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO Roadside Design
Guide.
COATING: Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
CODE: The Municipal Code of the City of Des Plaines.
CONDUCTOR: Wire carrying electrical current.
CONDUIT: A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
CONSTRUCTION OR CONSTRUCT: The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
COVER: The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
CROSSING FACILITY: A facility that crosses one or more right-of- way lines of a
right-of-way.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS AND ENGINEERING: The City Director of Public Works and
Engineering or his designee.
DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY: For the purposes of this chapter, any work that
obstructs the right-of-way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right-of-way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
EMERGENCY: Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety of
the public using or in the vicinity of the right- of-way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
ENCASEMENT: Provision of a protective casing.
EQUIPMENT: Materials, tools, implements, supplies, or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
EXCAVATION: The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying bare
by digging.
EXTRA HEAVY PIPE: Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
FACILITY: All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including track and
rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, communications and video cables and
wires, poles, antennae, signal receiving or transmitting equipment, conduits,
grates, covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances thereto) located on, over,
above, along, upon, under, across or within rights-of- way or City Property
under this chapter, except those owned by the City.
FREESTANDING FACILITY: A facility that is not a crossing facility or a parallel
facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump or meter station.
FRONTAGE ROAD: Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent to
the highway where it is precluded by control of access on highway.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location or other characteristics, is determined by the
Director of Public Works and Engineering to pose an unreasonable and imminent
risk to the life, health or safety of persons or property or to the ecological
balance of the environment, including, but not limited to, explosives,
radioactive materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons,
etiology (biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance
determined to be hazardous or toxic under any Federal or State law, statute or
regulation.
HIGHWAY: A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic including
rural or urban roads or streets. "Highway" includes all highway land and
improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges, drainage
structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
HIGHWAY CODE: The Illinois Highway Code, 605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101
et seq., as amended from time to time.
IDOT: Illinois Department of Transportation.
ILCC: Illinois Commerce Commission.
JACKING: Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means with
or without boring.
JETTING: Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to create
a cavity ahead of the pipe.
JOINT USE: The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two (2) or
more utilities.
MAJOR INTERSECTION: The intersection of two (2) or more major arterial
highways.
OCCUPANCY: The presence of facilities on, over or under right-of- way.
PARALLEL FACILITY: A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to the
center line of a right-of-way.
PARKWAY: Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or sidewalk.
PAVEMENT CUT: The removal of an area of pavement for access to facility or for
the construction of a facility.
PERMITTEE: That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to sections
9-5-4 and 9-5-5 of this chapter.
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES: Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal slurry.
PRACTICABLE: That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than that
which is simply convenient.
PRESSURE: The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
PROMPT: That which is done within a period of time specified by the City. If no
time period is specified, the period shall be thirty (30) days.
PUBLIC ENTITY: A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, State or Federal level.
RESTORATION: The repair of a right-of-way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: Any street, alley, other land or waterway, dedicated or commonly
used for utility purposes, including utility easements in which the City has
the right and authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of
facilities other than those of the City. Right-of-way shall not include any
real or personal City property that is not specifically described in the
previous sentence and shall not include City buildings, fixtures, and other
structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in the
right-of-way.
ROADWAY: That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
SECURITY FUND: That amount of security required pursuant to section
9-5-10 of this chapter.
SHOULDER: A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES: See subsection
9-5-13C of this chapter for definitions related to small wireless facilities.
SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT: A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: Includes, but is not limited to, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange
service, private line services, specialized mobile radio services, or any other
transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means, between
or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. Unless the context clearly requires
otherwise, "telecommunications" shall also include wireless telecommunications
as defined in the Illinois Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee
Act, 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 635/1 et seq. "Telecommunications" shall not
include value added services in which computer processing applications are used
to act on the form, content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes
other than transmission. "Telecommunications" shall not include purchase of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by him to the ultimate retail consumer
who originates or terminates the end to end communications. Retailer access
charges, right of access charges, charges for use of intercompany facilities,
and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent provision and used as a
component of, or integrated into, end to end telecommunications service shall
not be included in gross charges as sales for resale. "Telecommunications"
shall not include the provision of cable services through a cable system as
defined in the Cable Communications Act of 1984 (47 USC section 521 and
following) as now or hereafter amended or cable or other programming services
subject to an open video system fee payable to the City through an open video
system as defined in the Rules of the Federal Communications Commission (47 CDF
76.1550 and following) as now or hereafter amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the public right-of-way used or designed to be used to
transmit telecommunications in any form.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER: Every person engaged in making sales of
telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
TRENCH: A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
UTILITY: The individual or entity owning or operating any “facility” as defined
in this chapter. For the purposes of this chapter utilities may include private
companies not classified as public utilities by the Illinois Commerce
Commission.
VENT: A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
WATER LINES: Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
WET BORING: Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material. (Ord. M-14-18, 6-
18-2018; amd. Ord. M-13-20, 10-19-2020)
9-5-3: ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Every utility that occupies right-of-way within the City shall register on
January 1 of each year with the Director of Public Works and Engineering,
providing the utility's name, address and regular business telephone and
telecopy numbers, the name of one or more contact persons who can act on behalf
of the utility in connection with emergencies involving the utility's
facilities in the right-of-way and a twenty four (24) hour telephone number for
each such person, and evidence of insurance as required in section
9-5-8 of this chapter, in the form of a certificate of insurance. A
telecommunications provider that has registered under this section, shall be
deemed to have satisfied the registration requirement herein. (Ord. M-14-18, 6-
18-2018)
9-5-4: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall “construct”, as defined in this
chapter, any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within any
City right-of-way or City Property which: 1) changes the location of the
facility, 2) adds a new facility, 3) disrupts the “right-of-way” or City
Property, as defined in this chapter, or 4) materially increases the amount of
area or space occupied by the facility on, over, above, along, upon, under,
across or within the right- of-way or City Property, without first filing an
application with the Director of Public Works and Engineering and obtaining a
permit from the City therefor, except as otherwise provided in this chapter. No
permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of service
connections to customers’ premises where there will be no disruption of the
right-of-way.
   B.   Permit Application: All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the City and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the City may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that are reasonably
believed to contain proprietary or confidential information as proprietary or
confidential by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   C.   Minimum General Application Requirements: The application shall be made
by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at a
minimum, the following:
      1.   The utility's name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      2.   The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility, its
telephone, telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
      3.   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      4.   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      5.   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the City:
         a.   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the Illinois Manual
On Uniform Traffic Control Devices, to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         b.   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the City and shall promote
protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with ILCC
regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with this
section unless the City finds that additional information or assurances are
needed;
      6.   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules and regulations;
      7.   Evidence of insurance as required in section
9-5-8 of this chapter;
      8.   Evidence of posting of the Security Fund as required in section
9-5-10 of this chapter;
      9.   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter; and
      10.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
City.
   D.   Supplemental Application Requirements For Specific Types Of Utilities:
In addition to the requirements of subsection C of this section, the permit
application shall include the following items as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      1.   In the case of new electric power, communications or natural gas
distribution system installation, evidence that any certificate of public
convenience and necessity has been issued by the ILCC that the applicant is
required by law, or has elected, to obtain;
      2.   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class and operating pressures;
      3.   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency Division of Public Water Supplies, and
the City have been satisfied;
      4.   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control and the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District, and the City have been satisfied; or
      5.   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or types
of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the design
standard to be followed.
      6.   In the case of small wireless facilities, see subsection
9-5-13C of this chapter.
   E.   Applicant's Duty To Update Information: Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the City within thirty (30) days after
the change necessitating the amendment.
   F.   Application Fees: Unless otherwise provided by this chapter, a
franchise, a license, or a similar agreement, and except for small wireless
facilities provided in subsection
9-5-13C of this chapter, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter
shall be accompanied by a fee in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00). Except
for the data, site, and plan review fee, no application fee is required to be
paid by any telecommunications retailer that is paying the Municipal
telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee or the optional State
telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the
Telecommunications Municipal Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act, or by any
electricity utility that is paying the Municipal electricity infrastructure
maintenance fee pursuant to the Electricity Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act.
   G.   Site Inspection, Plan Review, and Installation Inspection Cost
Reimbursement: For any application for the installation, improvement, or repair
of facilities on any City Property, the applicant shall be responsible for
reimbursing the City for the actual costs the City incurs conducting site
inspections, reviewing design drawings and performing structural assessments,
and approving final installations, whether performed by City employees or
third-party consultants. The City shall not be required to issue a permit or
approval for the facilities unless and until the applicant has paid the
required reimbursement amount. The obligations set forth in this Section
9-5-4(G) shall be subject to, and governed by, provisions of any applicable
franchise agreement with the applicant. (Ord. M-14-18, 6-18-2018; amd. Ord. M-
13-20, 10-19-2020)
9-5-5: ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   City Review Of Permit Applications: Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the Director of
Public Works and Engineering within a reasonable time after filing. If the
application does not conform to the requirements of all applicable ordinances,
codes, laws, rules, and regulations, the Director of Public Works and
Engineering shall reject such application in writing, stating the reasons
therefor. If the Director of Public Works and Engineering is satisfied that the
proposed work conforms to the requirements of this chapter and all applicable
ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, the Director of Public Works
and Engineering shall issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable.
   B.   Additional City Review Of Applications Of Telecommunications Retailers:
      1.   Pursuant to section 4 of the Telephone Company Act, a
telecommunications retailer shall notify the City that it intends to commence
work governed by this chapter for facilities for the provision of
telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of plans,
specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the purpose
and intent of the facilities, and shall be provided by the telecommunications
retailer to the City not less than ten (10) days prior to the commencement of
work requiring no excavation and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the
commencement of work requiring excavation. The Director of Public Works and
Engineering shall specify the portion of the right-of-way upon which the
facility may be placed, used and constructed.
      2.   In the event that the Director of Public Works and Engineering fails
to provide such specification of location to the telecommunications retailer
within either: a) ten (10) days after service of notice to the City by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for
new construction or b) twenty five (25) days after service of notice by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new
construction, the telecommunications retailer may commence work without
obtaining a permit under this chapter.
      3.   Upon the provision of such specification by the City, where a permit
is required for work pursuant to section
9-5-4 of this chapter the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the City
an application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of subsection A of this
section. (Ord. M-14-18, 6-18-2018)
9-5-6: EFFECT OF PERMIT:
   A.   Authority Granted; No Property Right Or Other Interest Created: A
permit from the City authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on City rights-of-way, and does not
create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon the
rights of others who may have an interest in the public rights-of-way.
   B.   Compliance With All Laws Required: The issuance of a permit by the City
does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of the
City and all applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
(Ord. M-14-18, 6-18-2018)
9-5-7: REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS:
In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the City within ninety (90) days
after the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans shall
specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities deviate from
the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the permit also
deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated as a
request for variance in accordance with section
9-5-21 of this chapter. If the City denies the request for a variance, then the
permittee shall either remove the facility from the right-of-way or modify the
facility so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or plans
therefor. (Ord. M-14-18, 6-18-2018)
9-5-8: INSURANCE:
   A.   Required Coverages And Limits: Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license, or similar agreement, each utility occupying right-of-way or
constructing any facility in the right-of-way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the City, and its elected and appointed officers, officials, agents,
and employees as additional insureds on the policies listed in subsections A1
and A2 of this section:
      1.   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as "X", "C", and "U" coverages) and products completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
         a.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death
to each person;
         b.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
         c.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability;
      2.   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal
injury and property damage for each accident;
      3.   Workers' compensation with statutory limits; and
      4.   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee and per accident.
   B.   Excess Or Umbrella Policies: The coverages required by this section may
be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any excess or
umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   C.   Copies Required: The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the City within ten (10) days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the City.
   D.   Maintenance And Renewal Of Required Coverages: The insurance policies
required by this section shall contain the following endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor the
intention not to renew be stated until 30 days after receipt by the city, by
registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of a written
notice addressed to the city manager of such intent to cancel or not to renew.
Within ten (10) days after receipt by the City of said notice, and in no event
later than ten (10) days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall obtain
and furnish to the City evidence of replacement insurance policies meeting the
requirements of this section.
   E.   Self-Insurance: A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by subsection A of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under subsection A of this section, or the requirements of subsections
B, C and D of this section. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide
to the City evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-
insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements required under subsection
A of this section, such as evidence that the utility is a private self-insurer
under the Workers' Compensation Act.
   F.   Effect Of Insurance And Self-Insurance On Utility's Liability: The
legal liability of the utility to the City and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder. (Ord. M-14-18, 6-
18-2018)
9-5-9: INDEMNIFICATION:
By occupying or constructing facilities in the right-of-way or City Property, a
utility shall be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the City and its
elected and appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and
representatives harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims,
demands, judgments, damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney
fees and costs of suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to
arise out of or result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts,
omissions, failures to act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates,
officers, employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction
of facilities or occupancy of the rights-of-way or City Properties, and in
providing or offering service over the facilities, whether such acts or
omissions are authorized, allowed or prohibited by this chapter or by a
franchise, license or similar agreement; provided, however, that the utility’s
indemnity obligations hereunder shall not apply to any injuries, claims,
demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses arising out of or resulting
from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this chapter by the City, its
officials, officers, employees, agents or representatives. (Ord. M-14-18, 6-18-
2018; amd. Ord. M-13-20, 10-19-2020)
9-5-10: SECURITY:
   A.   Purpose: The permittee shall establish a Security Fund in a form and in
an amount as set forth in this section. The Security Fund shall be continuously
maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee's sole cost and
expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit. The
Security Fund shall serve as security for:
      1.   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements of
this chapter;
      2.   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the City occasioned by
the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations, orders,
permits and other directives of the City issued pursuant to this chapter; and
      3.   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims, costs
or expenses that the City may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by permittee in violation of this chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform that the City must perform itself or have
completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the City from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter or any other applicable law.
   B.   Form: The permittee shall provide the Security Fund to the City in the
form of cash or an unconditional letter of credit in a form acceptable to the
City for the first ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) of required security. The
balance of the amount required for the Security Fund shall be in the form, at
the permittee's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form acceptable to the
City or an unconditional letter of credit in a form acceptable to the City. Any
surety bond or letter of credit provided pursuant to this subsection B shall,
at a minimum:
      1.   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
City and the permittee;
      2.   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the City of any amounts covered by it; and
      3.   Shall provide a location convenient to the City and within the State
at which it can be drawn.
   C.   Amount: The dollar amount of the Security Fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the Director of Public Works and Engineering, and may
also include reasonable, directly related costs that the City estimates are
likely to be incurred if the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where
the construction of facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in
phases in multiple locations in the City, with each phase consisting of
construction of facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and
where construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the Director of
Public Works and Engineering may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow
the permittee to post a single amount of security which shall be applicable to
each phase of the construction under the permit. The amount of the Security
Fund for phased construction shall be equal to the greatest amount that would
have been required under the provisions of this subsection for any single
phase.
   D.   Withdrawals: The City, upon fourteen (14) days' advance written notice
clearly stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal rights
under this subsection, may withdraw an amount from the Security Fund, provided
that the permittee has not reimbursed the City for such amount within the 14-
day notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
      1.   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      2.   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      3.   Fails to reimburse the City for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the City has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or nonperformance by the permittee; or
      4.   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the City
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the Security Fund.
   E.   Replenishment: Within fourteen (14) days after receipt of written
notice from the City that any amount has been withdrawn from the Security Fund,
the permittee shall restore the Security Fund to the amount specified in
subsection C of this section.
   F.   Interest: The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the Security Fund be returned to the permittee by the City,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the City, provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the Security Fund below the minimum balance required
in subsection C of this section.
   G.   Closing And Return Of Security Fund: Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the Security Fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the City for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the Security Fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the City to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the City as a result of said revocation, provided
that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
   H.   Rights Not Limited: The rights reserved to the City with respect to the
Security Fund are in addition to all other rights of the City, whether reserved
by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action, proceeding or
exercise of right with respect to said Security Fund shall affect any other
right the City may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City shall not be
entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any of its rights which
may be infringed or otherwise violated. (Ord. M-14-18, 6-18-2018)
9-5-11: PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
   A.   City Right To Revoke Permit: The City may revoke or suspend a permit
issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following reasons:
      1.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      2.   Noncompliance with this chapter;
      3.   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the public rights-of-way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
or
      4.   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   B.   Notice Of Revocation Or Suspension: The City shall send written notice
of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this chapter
stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   C.   Permittee Alternatives Upon Receipt Of Notice Of Revocation Or
Suspension: Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the City, the permittee shall have the following options:
      1.   Immediately provide the City with evidence that no cause exists for
the revocation or suspension;
      2.   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the City, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the City within five (5) working days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation; or
      3.   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across or within the public rights-of-way and restore the rights-
of-way to the satisfaction of the City providing written proof of such removal
to the City within ten (10) days after receipt of the written notice of
revocation.
The City may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the time periods
provided in this subsection C.
   D.   Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the City may issue a stop work order immediately upon discovery
of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within subsection A of this
section.
   E.   Failure Or Refusal Of The Permittee To Comply: If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of subsection C of this section, the City or its
designee may, at the option of the City: 1) correct the deficiencies; 2) upon
not less than twenty (20) days' notice to the permittee, remove the subject
facilities or equipment; or 3) after not less than thirty (30) days' notice to
the permittee of failure to cure the noncompliance, deem them abandoned and
property of the City. The permittee shall be liable in all events to the City
for all costs of removal. (Ord. M-14-18, 6-18-2018)
9-5-12: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER'S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS:
   A.   Notification Of Change: A utility shall notify the City no less than
thirty (30) days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the
right-of-way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility
or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and all applicable laws, ordinances,
rules and regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right-of-way.
   B.   Amended Permit: A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the City's right-of-
way.
   C.   Insurance And Bonding: All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer. (Ord. M-14-18,
6-18-2018)
9-5-13: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards And Principles: All construction in the right-of-way shall be
consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, and
commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction principles,
sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles and standards
set forth in the following IDOT publications:
      1.   Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction;
      2.   Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions;
      3.   Highway Design Manual;
      4.   Highway Standards Manual;
      5.   Standard Specifications for Traffic Control Items;
      6.   Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices (92 Ill. Adm.
Code section 545);
      7.   Flagger's Handbook; and
      8.   Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations.
   B.   Interpretation Of Municipal Standards And Principles: If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the Director of Public Works and Engineering shall determine, in the
exercise of sound engineering judgment, which principles apply and such
decision shall be final. If requested, the Director of Public Works and
Engineering shall state which standard or principle will apply to the
construction, maintenance, or operation of a facility in the future.
   C.   Small Wireless Facilities: The purpose of this subsection C is to
establish standards for the location, installation, and maintenance of small
wireless facilities in compliance with the Illinois Small Wireless Facilities
Deployment Act and City standards.
      1.   Definitions: Words or phrases in this subsection that are not
defined in this subsection have the meanings ascribed to them in the Illinois
Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act. The following words and phrases have
the meanings ascribed to them:
    SWF: Means a small wireless facility.
   SWF ACT: Means the Illinois Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act.
   UTILITY POLE: Means a pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in
part by communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control, or a similar function.
   WIRELESS FACILITY: Means equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
a) equipment associated with wireless communications and b) radio transceivers,
antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power supplies, and
comparable equipment regardless of technological configuration. Wireless
facility includes small wireless facilities. Wireless facility does not include
the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the equipment is
collocated or wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber optic cable that
is between wireless support structures or utility poles or coaxial, or fiber
optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or directly
associated with an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: Means any entity authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the State that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the City.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER: Means a wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless
services provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES: Means any services provided to the general public,
including a particular class of customers, and made available on a
nondiscriminatory basis using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a
fixed location or mobile, using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER: Means an entity that provides wireless services.
      2.   Permit Required: No SWF may be installed within the City unless a
permit is first obtained in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      3.   Permit Application: All applicants for a permit to install an SWF
within the City must submit a written permit application to the Director of
Public Works and Engineering by personal delivery, on a form provided by the
City. The permit application must include the following information:
         a.   Contact Information: The names and contact information of the
wireless services provider and the wireless infrastructure provider if any.
         b.   Description: A description and depiction of the wireless services
provider's existing SWFs located within the City.
         c.   Location, Photographs: The location and photographs of each
proposed SWF and its surroundings, depicting the poles or structures on which
each proposed SWF would be mounted.
         d.   Specifications, Drawings: Specifications and drawings prepared by
a licensed professional engineer for each proposed SWF as it is proposed to be
installed, with a certification that each SWF complies with all applicable size
and location standards.
         e.   Structural Analysis: A site-specific structural analysis of each
location by a licensed professional engineer that examines the acceptability of
the site for factors such as pole loading from existing utility equipment and
conductors as well as the SWF.
         f.   Equipment, Model Numbers: The equipment type and model numbers
for the antennas and all other wireless equipment associated with each proposed
SWF.
         g.   Number: The total number of SWFs the wireless services provider
estimates it will seek within the City.
         h.   Schedule: A proposed schedule for the installation and completion
of each proposed SWF.
         i.   Proof Of Insurance: Proof of insurance coverage of the types and
amount set forth in this subsection.
         j.   Certification Of SWF Act Compliance: A certification that the
proposed SWF complies with subsection 15(d)(6) of the SWF Act and this
subsection.
         k.   Application Fees: An application fee of: 1) six hundred fifty
dollars ($650.00) for a single SWF, or 2) three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00)
for each proposed SWF if the application includes two (2) or more SWFs, or 3)
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each SWF that includes the installation of
a new utility pole.
         l.   Owner, Co-Owner Certification: A certification from the owner or
co-owner of the utility pole or wireless support structure that the owner or
co-owner has approved installation of an SWF on the utility pole or wireless
support structure.
      4.   Review Of Application: Applications will be reviewed in accordance
with the following process, except that the Director of Public Works and
Engineering may alter the review process for an application as appropriate
based on the elements of that application.
         a.   Determination Of Completeness: Within thirty (30) days after an
application is filed, the Director of Public Works and Engineering will
determine whether the application is complete. The Director of Public Works and
Engineering will notify the applicant of the Director of Public Works and
Engineering determination. If an application is not complete, then the Director
of Public Works and Engineering will identify the missing information.
         b.   Processing Time Period: The Director of Public Works and
Engineering will process a complete application within ninety (90) days, except
that a complete application that includes collocation of an SWF on a new
utility pole will be processed within one hundred twenty (120) days.
         c.   Approvals, Permits: The Director of Public Works and Engineering
will approve an application and issue a permit if it meets all requirements of
the SWF Act and applicable City Code requirements. A permit is valid for five
(5) years. When the permit expires, the City will renew the permit except if
the City determines the SWF does not conform to any applicable Federal, State,
or local code or regulation. The wireless provider must provide all reports,
plans, and other documents and data necessary for the City to determine
conformance of the SWF.
         d.   Denial: The Director of Public Works and Engineering will deny an
application if it does not meet all requirements of the SWF Act and applicable
requirements of this Code. The Director of Public Works and Engineering will
notify the applicant of the denial and the reason or reasons for the denial.
      5.   Guidance On SWF Locations: Based on various factors including, among
others, public safety, existing utility poles and wireless facilities, and
potential adverse impacts, the applicant must consider collocation in these
locations, with the items listed from most preferable to least preferable:
         a.   Utility poles owned or maintained by ComEd or other public
utilities.
         b.   Privately-owned utility poles, but only in locations approved by
the City.
         c.   City-owned utility poles (whether existing or to be installed) in
the following order of priority: 1) within an arterial street right-of-way, 2)
within a parking lot or on other property related to a governmental or
institutional use, and 3) within a collector street right-of-way.
         d.   City-owned light poles or standards (whether existing or to be
installed) in the following priority: 1) within an arterial street right-of-
way, 2) within a parking lot or on other property related to a governmental or
institutional use, and 3) within a collector street right-of-way.
         e.   City-owned utility poles not included in subsections C5c or C5d
of this section.
         f.   Utility poles, regardless how owned or by whom, located in a rear
yard (or abutting easement) of a single-family detached dwelling.
      6.   Decorative Utility Poles, Concealment Of SWF: If the Director of
Public Works and Engineering determines that an SWF proposed by the applicant
would have an unduly adverse impact on the abutting area unless the SWF is
collocated on a decorative pole or is concealed, then the Director of Public
Works and Engineering may require, as a condition of approval of that SWF, a
decorative utility pole or concealment. The Director of Public Works and
Engineering or a designee may meet with the applicant to determine the plans
for the SWF under that circumstance. If an agreement on plans cannot be
reached, then the Director of Public Works and Engineering may deny the permit
for that proposed SWF.
      7.   Prohibited Locations: SWFs are prohibited at the following
locations:
         a.   On any property classified in a residential district under the
City's Zoning Code.
         b.   On any privately-owned property except with the approval of the
City.
         c.   On any property owned or controlled by a unit of local government
that is not located within rights-of-way, except with the permission of the
local government and approval of the City.
         d.   On any utility pole that includes equipment such as capacitor
banks, transformers, cable terminals, cable rises, fuses, or disconnects.
      8.   Size Of Components: No element of an SWF may exceed six (6) cubic
feet in volume.
      9.   Overall Height: No element of an SWF may extend above forty five
feet (45') above grade.
      10.   Height Above Pole: No element of an SWF may extend more than ten
feet (10') above a utility pole.
      11.   New Utility Pole, Wireless Support Structure Height: A new utility
pole intended for an SWF, or a new wireless support structure, may not exceed a
height of forty five feet (45'). No SWF installed on such a new utility pole or
wireless support structure may extend above that forty five foot (45') height.
      12.   New Utility Pole Location: No new utility pole may be constructed
for an SWF within one hundred feet (100') of an existing utility pole that the
applicant may use on reasonable terms and conditions and without undue
technical limits or undue additional costs.
      13.   Color: Antennas and equipment cabinets must be in colors harmonious
with, and that generally blend into, the surroundings.
      14.   Mounting Strength: The strength and sufficiency of the support
structure, and the mounting of the antenna and related equipment must be
verified and stamped by a licensed structural engineer on the drawing required.
      15.   Landscaping: The immediate area around any ground-mounted equipment
or cabinets must be landscaped in a manner that largely screens the equipment
and cabinets.
      16.   Guy Wires Prohibited: No guy wire or other support wires may be
used in connection with an SWF antenna or its related equipment except for
preexisting guy wires or other support wires on a preexisting wireless support
structure.
      17.   Grounding: An SWF antenna and related structure must be bonded to a
ground rod.
      18.   Emergency Disconnection: An SWF antenna must have an emergency
disconnect.
      19.   IDOT, Cook County Approvals: The applicant must provide proof of
concurrence of IDOT or Cook County for the use of traffic signals located on
State roads.
      20.   Lighting: No SWF may be lighted unless required by the Federal
Aviation Administration or other Federal or State agency with jurisdiction and
authority.
      21.   Signs And Advertising: Unless required by Federal or State law, or
by a rule of a Federal or State regulatory agency with jurisdiction and
authority, no markings, signs, or advertising of any kind may be placed on any
SWF component except unobtrusive identification or location markings.
      22.   Building Codes And Safety Standards: An SWF must meet or exceed: a)
all requirements of this Code, b) all other applicable local and State Building
Codes and Electrical Codes, and c) industry standards.
      23.   Regulatory Compliance: Each SWF and wireless facility must meet or
exceed current standards and regulations of the Federal Communications
Commission, the Federal Aviation Administration, and any other Federal or State
agency with jurisdiction and authority.
      24.   Abandonment: Any SWF that has been abandoned or is being used for a
purpose other than its original purpose must be removed at the owner's expense.
Any SWF that has been out of operation for any reason, or used for a purpose
other than its original purpose, for more than ninety (90) days will be deemed
by the City to be abandoned.
      25.   Rates And Fee For Use Of City Utility Pole: The City will set and
charge nondiscriminatory rates and fees for collocation on City utility poles.
The City will keep a written schedule of rates and fees in the Office of the
City Clerk.
      26.   Annual Rate: In addition to the rates and fees for collocation,
each wireless services provider must pay an annual fee of two hundred dollars
($200.00) for each SWF located on a City utility pole in right-of-way or the
actual, direct, and reasonable costs related to the wireless provider's use of
space on the City's utility pole and an annual fee of three thousand six
hundred dollars ($3,600.00) for each SWF on City property not located in right-
of-way.
      27.   Operating Agreement: Prior to commencement of SWF construction on a
City-owned utility pole, the owner must develop an operating agreement
satisfactory to the Director of Public Works and Engineering. The agreement
must include protocols for emergency response and for maintenance of the
utility pole and include emergency contacts, a contact for public inquires, the
utility billing address, and the legal address of the wireless services
provider.
      28.   Utility Worker Safety: Prior to the commencement of SWF
construction, the wireless provider must provide the City with any required
safety precautions for individuals working on or near the SWF. If refresher
training, personal protective equipment, or tools are required for safety
purposes related to an SWF collocated on a City-owned utility pole, then the
wireless services provider must reimburse the City for all of its actual costs
of those elements.
      29.   SWF Equipment Replacement: The wireless provider shall notify the
City at least ten (10) days prior to the planned equipment replacement and
provide the equipment specifications. The replacement equipment shall be the
same size and/or smaller than the original installation.
      30.   Right-Of-Way Permit: The wireless provider must secure a permit for
any activities in the right-of-way that affect traffic patterns or require lane
closures.
      31.   General Standards:
         a.   No Interference: Every wireless provider's operation of a
wireless facility must not interfere with the frequencies used by any public
safety agency for public safety communications. The wireless provider must
install SWFs of the type and frequency that will not cause interference with
any public safety agency's communications equipment. Unacceptable interference
will be determined by and measured in accordance with industry standards and
the FCC's regulations addressing unacceptable interference to public safety
spectrum or any other spectrum licensed by a public safety agency.
         b.   Curing Interference: If an SWF causes interference and the
wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by the City
or public safety agency, then the wireless provider, at its expense, must take
all reasonable steps necessary to correct and eliminate the interference,
including without limitation powering down the SWF. The City may terminate a
permit for an SWF based on interference if the wireless provider is not making
a good faith effort to remedy the problem in a manner consistent with the
abatement and resolution procedures for interference with public safety
spectrum established by the FCC including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973
and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR 90.675.
         c.   Compliance With Contract Terms: Every wireless provider must
comply with all requirements imposed by a contract between the City and a
private property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable
to utility poles and to ground- mounted equipment located in right-of-way.
         d.   Spacing: Every wireless provider must comply with spacing
requirements in this subsection or any other applicable City code and ordinance
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-
way. A wireless provider may apply for a variation of a spacing requirement.
         e.   Undergrounding: Every wireless provider must comply with all City
codes and regulations regarding undergrounding of utilities and facilities and
prohibitions on installation of new, or modification of existing, utility poles
in a right-of-way. A wireless provider may apply for a variation of an
undergrounding requirement.
         f.   General City Standards: Every wireless provider must comply with
generally applicable City standards for construction and public safety in the
rights-of-way, including without limitation wiring and cabling requirements,
grounding requirements, utility pole extension requirements, and sign
restrictions. Every wireless provider must comply with all City regulations
applicable to the location, size, surface area and height of wireless
facilities and the abandonment and removal of SWFs.
         g.   Poles For Electricity Distribution: No wireless services provider
may collocate a wireless facility on a City utility pole that is part of an
electricity distribution or transmission system within the communication worker
safety zone of the utility pole or the electricity supply zone of the utility
pole, except that the antenna and support equipment of the wireless facility
may be located in the communications space on the City's utility pole and on
the top of the utility pole if no other utility pole is available and the
wireless provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of
the utility pole. The National Electric Safety Code applies to the provisions
of this subsection.
         h.   Public Safety Codes: Every wireless provider must comply with all
applicable State, County, and City codes, ordinances, and regulations that
concern public safety.
         i.   Decorative, Stealth, Concealment Standards: Every wireless
provider must comply with the City's generally applicable written standards for
decorative utility poles, and the City's generally applicable standards
regarding stealth, concealment, and aesthetics, and the City's design or
concealment measures in a historic district or regarding a historic landmark.
         j.   Insurance: Every wireless provider must provide proof of the
following insurance coverage: 1) comprehensive motor vehicle liability with
limits for vehicles owned, non-owned or rented not less than two million
dollars ($2,000,000.00) bodily injury and property damage combined single limit
and 2) commercial general liability with limits not less than five million
dollars ($5,000,000.00) bodily injury and property damage combined single
limit, and coverage written on an "occurrence" basis, and coverage to include
premises operations, independent contractors, personal injury (with employment
exclusion deleted), broad form property damage endorsement, "X", "C", and "U",
and contractual liability.
         k.   Indemnification: Every wireless provider must agree that it will
indemnify, save harmless, and defend the City against all damages, liability,
claims, losses, and expenses (including attorneys' fee) that may arise, or be
alleged to have arisen, out of or in connection with an SWF.
      32.   Installation And Maintenance Of Wireless Facilities: Each wireless
provider must construct, install, and maintain all wireless facilities in
accordance with the standards set forth in this chapter. (Ord. M-14-18, 6-18-
2018)
9-5-14: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: The City's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices and this Code.
   B.   Warning Signs, Protective Devices And Flaggers: The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting all applicable Federal, State, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the public rights-of-way.
   C.   Interference With Traffic: All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   D.   Notice When Access Is Blocked: At least forty eight (48) hours prior to
beginning work that will partially or completely block access to any residence,
business or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or
institution of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work;
provided, however, that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to
section
9-5-20 of this chapter, the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable
under the circumstances.
   E.   Compliance: The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the City. (Ord. M-14-18, 6-18-2018)
9-5-15: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   A.   Parallel Facilities Located Within Highways:
      1.   Overhead Parallel Facilities: An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way line
and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole alignment
will permit;
         b.   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable from
the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (2') (0.6m) behind the face of the
curb, where available;
         c.   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (4') (1.2m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         d.   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         e.   Any ground mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (1')
(0.3m) of the right-of-way line or as near as possible to the right-of-way
line.
      2.   Underground Parallel Facilities: An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   The facility is located as near the right-of-way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (8') (2.4m) from and parallel to the
right-of-way line;
         b.   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         c.   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right-of-way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (5') (1.5m) from the right-of-way line and any above
grounded appurtenance shall be located within one foot (1') (0.3m) of the
right-of-way line or as near as practicable.
   B.   Facilities Crossing Highways:
      1.   No Future Disruption: The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of City highways may
require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement or
additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      2.   Cattle Passes, Culverts, Or Drainage Facilities: Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts or drainage facilities.
      3.   Ninety Degree Crossing Required: Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a ninety degree (90°) angle to the center line as practicable.
      4.   Overhead Power Or Communication Facility: An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ILCC's
rules entitled, "Construction of Electric Power and Communication Lines" (83
Ill. Adm. Code 305);
         b.   Poles are located within one foot (1') (0.3m) of the right- of-
way line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         c.   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      5.   Underground Power Or Communication Facility: An underground power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance free service life; and
         b.   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      6.   Markers: The City may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right-of-way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current Federal regulations (49 CFR 192.707 (1989)).
   C.   Facilities To Be Located Within Particular Rights-Of-Way: The City may
require that facilities be located within particular rights-of-way that are not
highways, rather than within particular highways.
   D.   Freestanding Facilities:
      1.   The City may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right-of-way.
      2.   The City may require any freestanding facility located within a
right-of-way to be screened from view.
   E.   Appearance Standards:
      1.   The City may prohibit the installation of facilities in particular
locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      2.   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the highway user or impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
   F.   Aboveground Installation: Aboveground facilities may be installed only
if:
      1.   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      2.   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      3.   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable.
   G.   Facility Attachments To Bridges Or Roadway Structures:
      1.   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted. Small wireless facilities may not be attached to bridges or roadway
structures under any circumstances.
      2.   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         a.   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         b.   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         c.   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         d.   The proposed method of attachment;
         e.   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         f.   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         g.   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         h.   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved. (Ord. M-14-18, 6-18-2018)
9-5-16: CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS:
   A.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Construction
Methods:
      1.   Boring Or Jacking:
         a.   Pits And Shoring: Boring or jacking under rights-of-way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the Director
of Public Works and Engineering from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring
or jacking shall be excavated no more than forty eight (48) hours in advance of
boring or jacking operations and backfilled within forty eight (48) hours after
boring or jacking operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be
clearly marked and protected by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected,
supported, braced, and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical
and lateral loads that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking
operation.
         b.   Wet Boring Or Jetting: Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         c.   Borings With Diameters Greater Than Six Inches: Borings over six
inches (6") (0.15m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and
following pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside
diameter of the following pipe by more than one inch (1") (25mm).
         d.   Borings With Diameters Six Inches Or Less: Borings of six inches
(6") or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with
auger, or auger and following pipe method.
         e.   Tree Preservation: Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the City to be preserved shall be bored under or around
the root system.
      2.   Trenching: Trenching for facility installation, repair or
maintenance on rights-of-way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of section 603 of IDOT's Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction.
         a.   Length: The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipeline testing. Only
one-half (1/2) of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless
special permission is obtained from the Director of Public Works and
Engineering.
         b.   Open Trench And Excavated Material: Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by chapter 6 of the Illinois
Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right-of-way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off road location.
         c.   Preserved Tree Drip Line: The utility shall not trench within the
drip line of any tree designated by the City to be preserved.
      3.   Backfilling:
         a.   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction. When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         b.   For a period of three (3) years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the Director of Public Works and Engineering, the utility, at its
expense, shall remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the
installed facility, place and properly compact new backfill material, and
restore new pavement, sidewalk, curbs, and driveways to the proper grades, as
determined by the Director of Public Works and Engineering.
      4.   Pavement Cuts: Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this subsection A4 is
permitted under section
9-5-21 of this chapter, the following requirements shall apply:
         a.   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled as soon as
practicable with crushed stone, or crushed gravel material of CA-6 gradation,
as designated by the Director of Public Works and Engineering.
         b.   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the City.
         c.   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         d.   For all rights-of-way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven (7) years, or resurfaced in the last
three (3) years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to
be an emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before
the time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
JULIE locate.
      5.   Encasement:
         a.   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
City.
         b.   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (1') (0.3m) of the right-of-way line. No aboveground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         c.   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or City approved jointed
pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is installed
prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or mechanical
joints are of a type approved by the City. Bell and spigot type pipe shall be
encased regardless of installation method.
         d.   In the case of gas pipelines of sixty (60) psig or less,
encasement may be eliminated.
         e.   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than sixty (60) psig, encasement may be eliminated only
if: 1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair and
2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         f.   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
      6.   Minimum Cover Of Underground Facilities: Cover shall be provided and
maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for minimum
cover for the type of facility:
 
Type Of Facility                           Minimum Cover
Power or communication line (in general)   30 inches (0.8m)
Communication line installed by the plowed 24 inches (0.6m)
method
Gas or petroleum products                  30 inches (0.8m)
Water line                                 Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                           protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or drainage   Sufficient cover to provide freeze
line                                       protection
 
   B.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Facilities:
      1.   Electric Power Or Communication Lines:
         a.   Code Compliance: Electric power or communications facilities
within City rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Illinois Administrative Code 305 entitled
Rules for Construction of Electric Power and Communications Lines, and the
National Electrical Safety Code.
         b.   Overhead Facilities: Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guy wires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         c.   Underground Facilities:
            (1)    Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided
that special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            (2)    If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if: a) the crossing is installed by the use of moles, whip augers, or
other approved methods which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation or b) the installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            (3)    Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the National
Electrical Safety Code.
      2.   Underground Facilities Other Than Electric Power Or Communication
Lines: Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         a.   The use of moles, whip augers, or other approved methods which
compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         b.   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         c.   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         d.   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is not
possible by other means.
      3.   Gas Transmission, Distribution And Service: Gas pipelines within
rights-of-way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a City approved
manner and in conformance with the Federal Code of the Office of Pipeline
Safety Operations, Department of Transportation, part 192 - Transportation of
Natural and Other Gas by Pipeline: Minimum Federal Safety Standards (49 CFR
192), IDOT's Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, and all
other applicable laws, rules and regulations.
      4.   Petroleum Products Pipelines: Petroleum products pipelines within
rights-of-way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI Standard Code
for Pressure Piping (liquid petroleum transportation piping systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      5.   Water Lines, Sanitary Sewer Lines, Stormwater Sewer Lines Or
Drainage Lines: Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines and
drainage lines within rights-of-way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois.
      6.   Ground Mounted Appurtenances: Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right-of-way, shall
be provided with a vegetation free area extending one foot (1') (305mm) in
width beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation free area may
be provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the Director of Public Works and Engineering. With
the approval of the Director of Public Works and Engineering, shrubbery
surrounding the appurtenance may be used in place of vegetation free area. The
housing for ground mounted appurtenances shall be painted a neutral color to
blend with the surroundings.
   C.   Materials:
      1.   General Standards: The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's Standard Specifications
for Road and Bridge Construction, the requirements of the Illinois Commerce
Commission, or the standards established by other official regulatory agencies
for the appropriate industry.
      2.   Material Storage On Right-Of-Way: All pipe, conduit, wire, poles,
cross arms or other materials shall be distributed along the right-of-way prior
to and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an
obstacle to right-of-way maintenance or damage to the right-of-way and other
property. If material is to be stored on right-of-way, prior approval must be
obtained from the City.
      3.   Hazardous Materials: The plans submitted by the utility to the City
shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the construction
of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   D.   Operational Restrictions:
      1.   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion of
the City, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right-of-way or other
property.
      2.   These restrictions may be waived by the Director of Public Works and
Engineering when emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
      3.   Unless otherwise permitted by the City, the hours of construction
are those set forth in this Code and related documents.
   E.   Location Of Existing Facilities: Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the City shall contact JULIE and ascertain the presence and
location of existing aboveground and underground facilities within the rights-
of-way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The City will make its permit
records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the City or by
JULIE, a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities
within forty eight (48) hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance
with the Illinois Underground Facilities Damage Prevention Act. (Ord. M-14-18,
6-18-2018)
9-5-17: VEGETATION CONTROL:
   A.   Tree Trimming Permit Required: Tree trimming shall not be considered a
normal maintenance operation, but shall require the application for, and the
issuance of, a permit, in addition to any other permit required under this
chapter.
      1.   Application For Tree Trimming Permit: Applications for tree trimming
permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by competent
workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      2.   Damage To Trees: Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The City will require
compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed without
authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The City may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   B.   Specimen Trees Or Trees Of Special Significance: The City may require
that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of special
significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side arm
extensions, covered wire or other means.
   C.   Chemical Use: Spraying of any type of brush killing chemicals will not
be permitted on rights-of-way unless the utility demonstrates to the
satisfaction of the Director of Public Works and Engineering that such spraying
is the only practicable method of vegetation control. (Ord. M-14-18, 6-18-2018)
9-5-18: REMOVAL, RELOCATION, OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES:
   A.   Notice: Within ninety (90) days following written notice from the City,
a utility shall, at its own expense, temporarily or permanently remove,
relocate, change or alter the position of any utility facilities within the
rights-of-way whenever the Corporate Authorities have determined that such
removal, relocation, change or alteration, is reasonably necessary for the
construction, repair, maintenance or installation of any City improvement in or
upon, or the operations of the City in or upon, the rights-of-way.
   B.   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the City, any utility that owns, controls or maintains any
unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the public rights-of-way
shall, at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or
appurtenances from the public rights-of-way. A facility is unauthorized and
subject to removal in the following circumstances:
      1.   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      2.   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior grant
of a license or franchise, if required;
      3.   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      4.   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   C.   Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities: The City retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the City, as the City may determine to be necessary, appropriate or
useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If circumstances
permit, the Municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if known, prior
to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if known, after
cutting or removing a facility.
   D.   Abandonment Of Facilities: Upon abandonment of a facility within the
public rights-of-way of the City, the utility shall notify the City within
ninety (90) days. Following receipt of such notice the City may direct the
utility to remove all or any portion of the facility if the Director of Public
Works and Engineering determines that such removal will be in the best interest
of the public health, safety and welfare. In the event that the City does not
direct the utility that abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice
of abandonment to the City, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to consent
to the alteration or removal of all or any portion of the facility by another
utility or person. (Ord. M-14-18, 6-18-2018)
9-5-19: CLEANUP AND RESTORATION:
Upon completion of all construction or maintenance of facilities, the utility
shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and terrain in a timely
manner and to the satisfaction of the City. This includes restoration of
entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using
materials and methods approved by the Director of Public Works and Engineering.
Such cleanup and repair may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading,
reseeding, re-sodding or any other requirement to restore the right-of-way to a
condition substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to the
commencement of the project. (Ord. M-14-18, 6-18-2018)
9-5-20: MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE:
   A.   General: Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or
within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the City and at the utility's expense.
   B.   Emergency Maintenance Procedures: Emergencies may justify noncompliance
with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      1.   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      2.   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
Director of Public Works and Engineering or his duly authorized agent of the
emergency, informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection
of the traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary
repairs. If the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free
movement of traffic, the City Police shall be notified immediately.
      3.   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to complete
repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to the
traveling public.
   C.   Emergency Repairs: The utility must file in writing with the City a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way within forty eight
(48) hours after an emergency repair. (Ord. M-14-18, 6-18-2018)
9-5-21: VARIANCES:
   A.   Request For Variance: A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the Director of
Public Works and Engineering as a part of the permit application. The request
shall identify each provision of this chapter from which a variance is
requested and the reasons why a variance should be granted.
   B.   Authority To Grant Variances: The Director of Public Works and
Engineering shall decide whether a variance is authorized for each provision of
this chapter identified in the variance request on an individual basis.
   C.   Conditions For Granting Of Variance: The Director of Public Works and
Engineering may authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the
variance has demonstrated that:
      1.   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such as
terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special hardship
that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the public
purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      2.   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   D.   Additional Conditions For Granting Of A Variance: As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the Director of Public Works and Engineering may
require the utility requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and
conditions that may or may not be expressly contained within this chapter but
which carry out the purposes of this chapter. (Ord. M-14-18, 6-18-2018)
9-5-22: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to fine in accordance
with the penalty provisions of this Code. There may be times when the City will
incur delay or other costs, including third party claims, because the utility
will not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and this chapter. Unless
the utility shows that another allocation of the cost of undertaking the
requested action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the City's costs of
damages and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying, relocating, or
removing the facility that is the subject of the permit. No other
administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a permit related
cost apportionment of the City. Sanctions may be imposed upon a utility who
does not pay the costs apportioned to it. (Ord. M-14-18, 6-18-2018)
9-5-23: ENFORCEMENT:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the City may have for enforcement of this chapter. (Ord.
M-14-18, 6-18-2018)
CHAPTER 6
SEWER AND WATER MAIN RECAPTURE AGREEMENTS
SECTION:
9-6-1: General Policy
9-6-2: Specific Standards For Recapture Agreements
9-6-1: GENERAL POLICY:
It is hereby established as the policy of the city of Des Plaines that sewer
and water main recapture agreements shall be entered into by the city only in
accordance with the standards set out in the following section. The term
"sewer" when used in this chapter shall include storm sewer, sanitary sewer and
combined sewers. (Ord. M-54-02, 8-19-2002)
9-6-2: SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR RECAPTURE AGREEMENTS:
Any recapture agreement for water mains or sewers, entered into after the
effective date hereof shall be in accordance with the following standards:
(Ord. M-54-02, 8-19-2002)
   A.   The water main or sewer which is the subject matter of any such
agreement shall be of such location, size and length as to be of substantial
benefit to the city as a whole, rather than of benefit to the developer or a
limited area only, and shall not otherwise be required by any ordinance of the
city.
   B.   Such water main or sewer must be an integral part of the city's water
and/or sewer system, and necessary for the reasonable extension or improvement
thereof.
   C.   The city council shall determine by ordinance: 1) the extent to which
the installation of the sewer or water main shall be entitled to recover part
of the total cost thereof; 2) the time over which such right of recovery shall
take place; 3) the properties which shall be allowed to connect to said sewer
or water main; 4) the dollar amount each such property so benefited shall be
expected to pay to the installer towards such recovery of cost, based upon the
actual benefit thereby gained by such property; and 5) the time at which the
city shall become the absolute owner of said sewer or water main, which time
shall not be any longer than the time over which right of recovery shall exist.
   D.   No recapture agreement shall obligate the city unconditionally to
withhold building permits or connections solely because any property benefited
by connection fails to pay its share of the cost as determined by ordinance.
(Ord. M-48-72, 11-20-1972)
   E.   No recapture agreement shall obligate the city to collect, or enforce
collection of, the amount due the installer from properties determined to be
benefited. Provided however, the city shall not issue a permit unless proof of
payment of the fee is forthcoming.
   F.   All recapture agreements shall provide that the city is entitled to its
engineering and legal fees and costs in connection with the sewer or water main
and the agreement. Said fees and costs shall be determined by the director of
engineering and the city attorney and stated as one sum due and owing in the
recapture agreement.
   G.   All sewers and water mains which are the subject of recapture
agreements shall be in strict accordance with city standards for same, and
their design and construction shall be subject to the approval of the director
of engineering.
   H.   The installer shall present proof satisfactory to the director of
engineering and city attorney that all labor and material relating to said
sewer or water main have been paid not later than at the time of final
inspection by the director of engineering, and shall indemnify, defend and hold
the city harmless for any liens or claims of lien whatsoever.
   I.   All such sewers and water mains, when approved by the director of
engineering, shall become part of the city's water or sewer system and shall be
maintained by the city, even if ownership of same shall remain for some time
thereafter in the installer.
   J.   The said ordinance determining properties to be benefited shall contain
the legal description of such properties, a map showing their location and
shall be recorded on the title of each benefited property in the office of the
recorder of deeds of Cook County. (Ord. M-54-02, 8-19-2002)
   K.   All recapture agreements shall contain such other provisions as may be
deemed necessary or desirable to protect the best interests of the city,
consistent with these standards. (Ord. M-48-72, 11-20-1972)
CHAPTER 7
PUBLIC SCHOOLS AND SCHOOL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
9-7-1: Special School Use
9-7-2: Permit
9-7-3: Term Of Permit
9-7-4: Assignability Of Permit
9-7-1: SPECIAL SCHOOL USE:
Nonconforming uses and nonconforming structures may be located on public school
and public school district property as special school uses regardless of
whether those uses and structures are conditional uses under the city of Des
Plaines zoning code, upon a determination of the city council on a case by case
basis, based upon, but not limited to, the following criteria:
   A.   The proposed special school use has some direct benefit to the school
and/or school district.
   B.   The proposed special school use is designed, constructed, operated, and
maintained so as to be harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the
existing or intended character of the general vicinity.
   C.   The proposed special school use is not hazardous or disturbing to
existing neighboring uses or to the city's 9-1-1 emergency communications'
frequencies.
   D.   The proposed special school use does not involve uses, activities,
processes, materials, equipment and conditions of operation that will be
detrimental to any property or the general public welfare.
   E.   The proposed special school use complies with all applicable
regulations of the city's building code and permitting requirements of the
city. (Ord. M-52-03, 8-18-2003)
9-7-2: PERMIT:
Upon the favorable determination by the city council for a special school use,
a permit shall be granted. (Ord. M-52-03, 8-18-2003)
9-7-3: TERM OF PERMIT:
The special school use permit shall not exceed twenty (20) years, renewable at
the option of the school district and with the approval by the city council,
such approval not to be unreasonably withheld. (Ord. M-52-03, 8-18-2003)
9-7-4: ASSIGNABILITY OF PERMIT:
Such special school use shall be unique to the school district and shall not
run with the land. Should the school district cease school functions at the
site, and/or sell the real property at the site of the special school use to an
entity other than another public school district, said use shall expire upon
the district's conveyance of the property. No person, corporation, or entity
shall make a claim that the special school use may continue after the school
district conveys the property. The special school use shall not be assignable
without the express, written consent of the city which shall not be
unreasonably withheld. (Ord. M-52-03, 8-18-2003)
TITLE 10
CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
10-1-1: Adoption Of The International Building Code
10-1-2: Amendments To The International Building Code
10-1-1: ADOPTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE:
The 2015 international building code, published by the International Code
Council, Inc., is hereby adopted and incorporated as if fully set forth herein,
except as certain provisions thereof are specifically amended or deleted, and
new provisions are specifically added thereto, pursuant to section
10-1-2 of this chapter. (Ord. M-44-15, 11-16-2015)
10-1-2: AMENDMENTS TO THE INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE:
The 2015 international building code, adopted and incorporated by reference
pursuant to this chapter, is hereby amended, in relevant part, to read as set
forth in this section. Subsequent section numbers used in this section refer to
the like numbered sections of, or new sections added to, the 2015 international
building code. Whenever a conflict arises between the provisions of the 2015
international building code and the amendments set forth in this section, the
following amendments will control: (Ord. M-44-15, 11-16-2015)
[A] 101.1 Title.
These regulations shall be known as the building code of the city of Des
Plaines, hereinafter referred to as "this code."
[A] 101.2.1 Appendices.
Provisions in the appendices shall not apply unless specifically adopted.
Appendices F and K are hereby adopted.
[A] 101.4.3 Plumbing.
The provisions of the Illinois plumbing code, 68 Ill. admin. code 890.110 et
seq., shall apply to the installation, alteration, repair and replacement of
plumbing systems, including equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and
appurtenances, and where connected to a water or sewage system and all aspects
of a medical gas system. The provisions of the Illinois plumbing code shall
apply to private sewage disposal systems.
[A] 101.4.6 Energy.
The provisions of the Illinois energy conservation code, 71 Ill. admin. code
600.100 et seq., shall apply to all matters governing the design and
construction of buildings for energy efficiency.
[A] 105.1 Required.
Any owner or authorized agent who intends to construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
move, demolish, or change the occupancy of a building or structure, to alter
any grading of a property, or to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair,
remove, convert or replace any electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system,
the installation of which is regulated by this code, or to cause any such work
to be done, shall first make application to the building official and obtain
the required permit.
[A] 105.2 Work Exempt From Permit.
Exemptions from permit requirements of this code shall not be deemed to grant
authorization for any work to be done in any manner in violation of the
provisions of this code or any other laws or ordinances of this jurisdiction.
Permits shall not be required for the following:
Building:
1.Vinyl storage cabinets not larger than 36 square feet.
2.Oil derricks.
3.Retaining walls that are not over 4 feet in height measured from the bottom
of the footing to the top of the wall, unless supporting a surcharge or
impounding class I, II or IIIA liquids.
4.Water tanks supported directly on grade if the capacity is not greater than
5,000 gallons and the ratio of height to diameter or width is not greater than
2:1.
5.Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, counter tops and similar
finish work.
6.Temporary motion picture, television and theater stage sets and scenery;
provided, however, that the use of such sets and scenery may require a special
event license and/or registration with the city of Des Plaines.
7.Prefabricated swimming pools accessory to a group R-3 occupancy that are less
than 24 inches deep, are not greater than 5,000 gallons and are installed
entirely above ground.
8.Shade cloth structures constructed for nursery or agricultural purposes, not
including service systems.
9.Swings and other playground equipment accessory to detached one- and two-
family dwellings.
10.Window awnings in group R-3 and U occupancies, supported by an exterior wall
that do not project more than 54 inches from the exterior wall and do not
require additional support.
11.Nonfixed and movable fixtures, cases, racks, counters and partitions not
over 5 feet 9 inches in height.
12. Recreational equipment, arbors, trellises, and yard features as defined in
the Zoning Ordinance and accessory to detached one- and two-family dwellings
unless electrical work or a foundation is required for installation.
[A] 107.1 General.
Submittal documents consisting of construction documents, statement of special
inspections, geotechnical report and other data shall be submitted in two or
more sets with each permit application. The construction documents shall be
prepared by a registered design professional where required by the statutes of
the jurisdiction in which the project is to be constructed, or when required by
the building official. Where special conditions exist, the building official is
authorized to require additional construction documents to be prepared by a
registered design professional.
Exception: The building official is authorized to waive the submission of
construction documents and other data not required to be prepared by a
registered design professional if it is found that the nature of the work
applied for is such that review of construction documents is not necessary to
obtain compliance with this code.
[A] 107.2.5.1 Design Flood Elevations.
Where design flood elevations are not specified, they shall be established in
accordance with section 1612.3.1 and title 14 of the Des Plaines city code.
[A] 107.2.5.2 Drainage And Grading Plan Requirement.
A drainage and grading plan prepared by a professional engineer licensed in the
state of Illinois shall be submitted with permit applications for the following
items: construction of new buildings, additions or alterations to existing
buildings that result in a 50% or greater increase in the footprint of the
building, grade changes that affect drainage conditions, and any grade changes
to properties located within designated flood plain areas. A drainage and
grading plan is not required for detached garages.
[A] 107.2.5.3 Foundation Grades And Rules.
The director of public works and engineering shall, from time to time,
promulgate detailed rules, including without limitation standards for
engineering site plans, not inconsistent with this code, for the purpose of
determining foundation grades. Such rules shall become effective when filed in
the office of the city clerk and thereafter shall have the same force and
effect as an ordinance duly adopted by the corporate authorities of the city of
Des Plaines.
[A] 107.2.5.4 Subdivision Grade Plan.
With respect to subdivisions, the drainage and grading plan requirement set
forth in section 107.2.5.2 of this code shall be supplemental to the
subdivision regulations adopted from time to time by the city of Des Plaines.
In the event of a conflict between section 107.2.5.2 of this code and any
provision of the subdivision regulations, the subdivision regulations shall
control. The building official shall not issue a building permit for such
subdivisions unless a lot- grading plan has been approved by the director of
public works and engineering.
[A] 109.2.1 Fee Schedule.
The fees charged by the city of Des Plaines for all permits required by this
chapter are set forth in chapter 13 of title 10 of the Des Plaines city code.
[A] 109.3.1 Project Valuation.
Building permit valuations for all permits required by this code shall be
determined in accordance with chapter 13 of title 10 of the Des Plaines city
code.
[A] 110.3.8.1 Spot Survey Required.
A plat of the piece or parcel of land, lot, lots, block, blocks, or parts or
portions thereof, drawn to scale showing the actual dimensions of the land
parcel, the location of all buildings and improvements, including excavations
and foundation walls, and the elevation of the top of the foundation in
accordance with the city of Des Plaines benchmark system (North American
vertical datum of 1988), and certified by a registered land surveyor licensed
in the state of Illinois as a true and correct depiction of the piece or parcel
of land, lot, lots, block, blocks, or parts or portions thereof, according to
the registered or recorded plat of such land, shall be submitted immediately
after the foundation wall(s) have been completed to the building official for
review and approval of the foundation elevation and location.
[A] 110.3.8.2 As-Built Survey.
No permanent certificate of occupancy or other indication of approval of new
construction shall be issued or given by the building official until an as-
built survey of the drainage and grading plan has been approved by the
department of public works and engineering.
[A] 110.3.10.2 Digital Final Construction Documents.
When construction documents are produced in a digital format, as-built
construction documents shall be submitted on a compact disc or a flash drive in
tagged image format (TIF) or in another format approved by the department of
public works and engineering.
[A] 111.1 Use And Occupancy.
No building or structure shall be used or occupied, and no change in the
existing occupancy classification of a building or structure or portion thereof
shall be made, until the building official has issued a certificate of
occupancy therefor as provided herein. Issuance of a certificate of occupancy
shall not be construed as an approval of a violation of the provisions of this
code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction. A certificate of occupancy
shall not be valid until the fees prescribed by chapter 13 of title 10 of the
Des Plaines city code have been paid.
(Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-2014)
[A] 111.1.1 Temporary Certificate Of Occupancy.
When inclement weather has substantially delayed or will substantially delay
the completion of a construction project authorized pursuant to a building
permit issued by the city, the building official may issue a temporary
certificate of occupancy prior to the completion of all site work and
landscaping; provided, however, that no temporary certificate of occupancy
shall be issued pursuant to this section [A] 111.1.1 unless the building
official receives a cash performance security or equivalent performance
security in a form approved by the Director of Community and Economic
Development in the amount of the actual completion costs, but not less than
$5,000.00, on terms acceptable to the Director of Community and Economic
Development, to secure the completion of all work.
(Ord. M-42-18, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
Exception: Certificates of occupancy are not required for work exempt from
permits under section 105.2 or as approved by the building official.
Section 113 Board Of Appeals.
Section 113 is hereby deleted in its entirety.
1612.3 Establishment Of Flood Hazard Areas.
To establish flood hazard areas, the applicable governing authority shall adopt
a flood hazard map and supporting data. The flood hazard map shall include, at
a minimum, areas of special flood hazard as identified by the federal emergency
management agency in an engineering report entitled "The Flood Insurance Study
For City Of Des Plaines," dated August 19, 2008, as amended or revised with the
accompanying flood insurance rate map (FIRM) and flood boundary and floodway
map (FBFM) and related supporting data along with any revisions thereto. The
adopted flood hazard map and supporting data are hereby adopted by reference
and declared to be part of this section.
3002.4 Elevator Car To Accommodate Ambulance Stretcher.
Where elevators are provided in buildings, at least one elevator shall be
provided for fire department emergency access to all floors. The elevator car
shall be of such a size and arrangement to accommodate an ambulance stretcher
24 inches by 84 inches with not less than 5-inch radius corners, in the
horizontal, open position and shall be identified by the international symbol
for emergency medical services (star of life). The symbol shall not be less
than 3 inches in height and shall be placed inside on both sides of the
hoistway door frame.
(Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-2014)
[A]3303.1 Demolition Permit - Construction Documents, Performance Security
   A.   Construction Documents and Schedule: Prior to the issuance of a
demolition permit, construction documents and a schedule for demolition shall
be submitted where required by the Director of Community and Economic
Development or their designee.
   B.   Performance Security: In addition to the payment of the applicable
permit fees set forth in section
10-13-3 of the Des Plaines City Code, every applicable demolition permit
application shall be accompanied by a cash bond in the amount set forth in
section
10-13-3 of the Des Plaines City Code, on terms acceptable to the Director of
Community and Economic Development, to secure the completion of the following
work: filling, grading, and seeding the site so that the site does not allow
(i) the accumulation of standing water, except for approved detention or
retention, or (ii) the drainage or runoff of storm water to adjoining
properties.
   1.   Refund: The cash bond required pursuant to subsection B of this section
shall be refunded by the city upon final inspection and approval of the
demolition work by the city.
   2.   Forfeiture: The city will notify the property owner and permit holder
in writing if (i) the demolition permit has lapsed and the lot is not filled,
graded, or seeded in accordance with section 3303.4 of this code or the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit, if applicable,
or (ii) the work performed pursuant to the demolition permit otherwise violates
this code. If the property is not brought into compliance with this section
within 30 days after such notice is sent, then the cash bond required pursuant
to subsection B of this section shall be deemed forfeited to the city. The city
may, but is not obligated to, use the forfeited funds to fill, grade, and/or
seed the demolition site in accordance with this section.
(M-2-23, 2-16-2023)
[A]3303.4 Vacant Lot
Where a structure has been demolished or removed, the vacant lot shall be
filled and maintained to the existing grade and seeded with grass seed.
(Ord. M-42-18, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
3412.2 Applicability.
Structures existing prior to January 16, 1939, in which there is work involving
additions, alterations or changes of occupancy shall be made to comply with the
requirements of this section or the provisions of sections 3403 through 3409.
The provisions in sections 3412.2.1 through 3412.2.5 shall apply to existing
occupancies that will continue to be, or are proposed to be, in groups A, B, E,
F, M, R, S and U. These provisions shall not apply to buildings with
occupancies in group H or I.
(Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-2014)
CHAPTER 2
RESIDENTIAL CODE FOR ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Adoption Of The International Residential Code For One- And Two-Family
Dwellings
10-2-2: Amendments To The International Residential Code For One- And Two-
Family Dwellings
10-2-1: ADOPTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE FOR ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY
DWELLINGS:
The 2015 international residential code for one- and two-family dwellings,
published by the International Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted and
incorporated as if fully set forth herein, except as certain provisions thereof
are specifically amended or deleted, and new provisions are specifically added
thereto, pursuant to section
10-2-2 of this chapter. (Ord. M-44-15, 11-16-2015)
10-2-2: AMENDMENTS TO THE INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE FOR ONE- AND TWO-
FAMILY DWELLINGS:
The 2015 international residential code for one- and two-family dwellings,
adopted and incorporated by reference pursuant to this chapter, is hereby
amended, in relevant part, to read as set forth in this section. Subsequent
section numbers used in this section refer to the like numbered sections of, or
new sections added to, the 2015 international residential code for one- and
two-family dwellings. Whenever a conflict arises between the provisions of the
2015 international residential code for one- and two-family dwellings and the
amendments set forth in this section, the following amendments will control:
(Ord. M-44-15, 11-16-2015)
R101.1 Title.
These provisions shall be known as the residential code for one- and two-family
dwellings of the city of Des Plaines, and shall be cited as such and will be
referred to herein as "this code."
R102.5 Appendices.
Provisions in the appendices shall not apply unless specifically referenced in
the adopting ordinance. Appendices C, G, and K are hereby adopted.
R105.1 Required.
Any owner or authorized agent who intends to construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
move, demolish or change the occupancy of a building or structure, to alter the
grading of any property, or to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove,
convert or replace any electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, the
installation of which is regulated by this code, or to cause any such work to
be done, shall first make application to the building official and obtain the
required permit.
R105.2 Work Exempt From Permit.
Permits shall not be required for the following. Exemption from permit
requirements of this code shall not be deemed to grant authorization for any
work to be done in any manner in violation of the provisions of this code or
any other laws or ordinances of this jurisdiction.
Building:
1. Vinyl storage cabinets not larger than 36 square feet.
2. Retaining walls that are not over 4 feet in height measured from the bottom
of the footing to the top of the wall, unless supporting a surcharge or unless
required by title 14 of the Des Plaines city code or section 106.2.2 of this
code.
3. Water tanks supported directly upon grade if the capacity does not exceed
5,000 gallons and the ratio of height to diameter or width does not exceed 2 to
1.
4. Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, counter tops and similar
finish work.
5. Prefabricated swimming pools that are less than 24 inches deep.
6. Swings and other playground equipment.
7. Window awnings supported by an exterior wall which do not project more than
54 inches from the exterior wall and do not require additional support.
8. Recreational equipment, arbors, trellises, and yard features as defined in
the Zoning Ordinance unless electrical work or a foundation is required for
installation.
Electrical:
1. Listed cord-and-plug connected temporary decorative lighting.
2. Reinstallation of attachment plug receptacles but not the outlets therefor.
3. Replacement of branch circuit overcurrent devices of the required capacity
in the same location.
4. Electrical wiring, devices, appliances, apparatus or equipment operating at
less than 25 volts and not capable of supplying more than 50 watts of energy.
5. Minor repair work, including the replacement of lamps or the connection of
approved portable electrical equipment to approved permanently installed
receptacles.
Gas:
1. Portable heating, cooking or clothes drying appliances.
2. Replacement of any minor part that does not alter approval of equipment or
make such equipment unsafe.
3. Portable-fuel-cell appliances that are not connected to a fixed piping
system and are not interconnected to a power grid.
Mechanical:
1. Portable heating appliances.
2. Portable ventilation appliances.
3. Portable cooling units.
4. Steam, hot- or chilled-water piping within any heating or cooling equipment
regulated by this code.
5. Replacement of any minor part that does not alter approval of equipment or
make such equipment unsafe.
6. Portable evaporative coolers.
7. Self-contained refrigeration systems containing 10 pounds (4.54kg) or less
of refrigerant or that are actuated by motors of 1 horsepower (746W) or less.
8. Portable-fuel-cell appliances that are not connected to a fixed piping
system and are not interconnected to a power grid.
The stopping of leaks in drains, water, soil, waste or vent pipe; provided,
however, that if any concealed trap, drainpipe, water, soil, waste or vent pipe
becomes defective and it becomes necessary to remove and replace the same with
new material, such work shall be considered as new work and a permit shall be
obtained and inspection made as provided in this code.
The clearing of stoppages or the repairing of leaks in pipes, valves or
fixtures, and the removal and reinstallation of water closets, provided such
repairs do not involve or require the replacement or rearrangement of valves,
pipes or fixtures.
(Ord. M-8-23, 4-3-2023)
R106.2.1 Drainage And Grading Plan Requirement.
A drainage and grading plan prepared by a professional engineer licensed in the
state of Illinois shall be submitted with permit applications for the following
items: construction of new buildings, additions or alterations to existing
buildings that result in a 50% or greater increase in the footprint of the
building, grade changes that affect drainage conditions, and any grade changes
to properties located within designated flood plain areas.
Exception: Drainage and grading plan will not be required for detached garages.
R106.2.2 Foundation Grades And Rules.
The director of public works and engineering shall, from time to time,
promulgate detailed rules, including without limitation standards for
engineering site plans, not inconsistent with this code, for the purpose of
determining foundation grades. Such rules shall become effective when filed in
the office of the city clerk and thereafter shall have the same force and
effect as an ordinance duly adopted by the corporate authorities of the city of
Des Plaines.
R106.2.3 Subdivision Grade Plan.
With respect to subdivisions, the drainage and grading plan requirement set
forth in section 106.2.1 of this code shall be supplemental to the subdivision
regulations adopted from time to time by the city of Des Plaines. In the event
of a conflict between section 106.2.1 of this code and any provision of the
subdivision regulations, the subdivision regulations shall control. The
building official shall not issue a building permit for such subdivisions
unless a lot- grading plan has been approved by the director of public works
and engineering.
R108.2 Schedule Of Permit Fees.
The fees charged by the city of Des Plaines for all permits required by this
chapter are set forth in chapter 13 of title 10 of the Des Plaines city code.
R109.1.1.2 Spot Survey Required.
A plat of the piece or parcel of land, lot, lots, block, blocks, or parts or
portion thereof, drawn to scale showing the actual dimensions of the land
parcel, location of all buildings and improvements, including excavations and
foundation walls, and the elevation of the top of the foundation in accordance
with the city of Des Plaines benchmark system (North American vertical datum of
1988), and certified by a registered land surveyor licensed in the state of
Illinois as a true and correct depiction of the piece or parcel of land, lot,
lots, block, blocks, or parts or portions thereof, according to the registered
or recorded plat of such land, shall be submitted immediately after the
foundation wall(s) have been completed to the building official for review and
approval of the foundation elevation and location.
R109.1.5.2 As-Built Survey.
No permanent certificate of occupancy or other indication of approval of new
construction shall be issued or given by the building official until an as-
built survey of the drainage and grading plan has been approved by the
department of public works and engineering.
R109.1.6.2 Digital Final Construction Documents.
When construction documents are produced in a digital format, as-built
construction documents shall be submitted on a compact disc or flash drive in
tagged image format (TIF) or in another format approved by the department of
public works and engineering.
R110.1 Use And Occupancy.
No building or structure shall be used or occupied, and no change in the
existing occupancy classification of a building or structure or portion thereof
shall be made until the building official has issued a certificate of occupancy
therefor as provided herein. Issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall not
be construed as an approval of a violation of the provisions of this code or of
other ordinances of the jurisdiction. Certificates presuming to give authority
to violate or cancel the provisions of this code or other ordinances of the
jurisdiction shall not be valid. A certificate of occupancy shall not be valid
until the fees prescribed by chapter 13 of title 10 of the Des Plaines city
code have been paid.
R110.1.1 Landscaping.
All landscaping, including sod, shall be in place prior to the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy. When inclement weather has substantially delayed or
will substantially delay the completion of all landscaping work, the building
official may issue a temporary certificate of occupancy prior to the completion
of all landscaping work; provided, however, that no temporary certificate of
occupancy shall be issued pursuant to this section R110.1.1 unless the building
official receives a cash performance security in the amount of the actual
landscaping costs, but not less than $5,000.00, on terms acceptable to the
building official, to secure the completion of all landscaping work.
Exception:
      1.   Certificates of occupancy are not required for work exempt from
permits under section 105.2 or as approved by the building official.
      2.   Accessory buildings or structures.
Section 112 Board Of Appeals.
Section 112 is hereby deleted in its entirety.
R202 Definitions.
Accessory Structure. A structure not more than 720 square feet in floor area,
and not more than 15 feet in height, the use of which is customarily accessory
to and incidental to that of the dwelling(s) and which is located on the same
lot.
Aggregate Floor Area. The gross floor area of a structure designed for
occupancy measured from the interior of the outside walls of all stories above
grade plane.
Table R301.2 (1)
Ground snow load                  25 lbs.
Wind design/speed                 90 mph
Wind design/topographic           No
Seismic design category           A
Subject to damage from weathering Severe
Frost line depth                  42 inches
Termite                           Moderate
Winter design temperature         2 degrees Fahrenheit
Ice barrier underlayment required Yes
Flood hazards                     FIRM dated 8/19/2008
Air freezing index                2000
Mean annual temperature           48 degrees Fahrenheit
 
R301.2.4 Floodplain Construction.
Buildings and structures constructed in whole or in part in flood hazard areas
(including A or V zones) as established in table R301.2(1) shall be designed
and constructed in accordance with section R322 and title 14 of the Des Plaines
city code. Buildings and structures located in whole or in part in identified
floodways shall be designed and constructed in accordance with ASCE 24 and
title 14 of the Des Plaines city code. In the event of a conflict between
section R322 or any provision of ASCE 24 and any provision of title 14 of the
Des Plaines city code, title 14 of the Des Plaines city code shall control.
R313.1 Townhouse Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems.
An automatic residential fire sprinkler system shall be installed in
townhouses.
Exception: An automatic residential fire sprinkler system shall not be required
when additions or alterations are made to existing townhouses that do not have
an automatic residential fire sprinkler system installed, provided that such
additions or alterations do not increase the aggregate floor area of the
existing townhouse by 100 percent or more.
R313.2 One- And Two-Family Dwellings Automatic Fire Systems.
An automatic residential fire sprinkler system shall be installed in one- and
two-family dwellings.
Exception: An automatic residential fire sprinkler system shall not be required
for additions or alterations to existing buildings that are not already
provided with an automatic residential sprinkler system installed, provided
that such additions or alterations do not increase the aggregate floor area of
an existing one- or two-family dwelling by 100 percent or more.
R2603.5.1 Sewer Depth.
Building sewers that connect to private sewage disposal systems shall be not
less than 42 inches below finished grade at the point of septic tank
connection. Building sewers shall be not less than 42 inches below grade.
Exception: When the depth of a public sewer prevents the installation of a
building sewer in accordance with this section P2603.5.1, the code official may
approve the connection to private sewage disposal systems and the installation
of building sewers at less than 42 inches below grade if the building sewer
design will, as a result of gravity or mechanical features, provide for
adequate sewer flow.
(Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-2014)
CHAPTER 3
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
10-3-1: Adoption Of The International Fire Code
10-3-2: Amendments To The International Fire Code
10-3-1: ADOPTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE:
The 2015 international fire code, published by the International Code Council,
Inc., is hereby adopted and incorporated as if fully set forth herein, except
as certain provisions thereof are specifically amended or deleted, and new
provisions are added thereto, pursuant to section
10-3-2 of this chapter. (Ord. M-44-15, 11-16-2015)
10-3-2: AMENDMENTS TO THE INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE:
The 2015 international fire code, adopted and incorporated by reference
pursuant to this chapter, is hereby amended, in relevant part, to read as set
forth in this section. Subsequent section numbers used in this section refer to
the like numbered sections of, or new sections added to, the 2015 international
fire code. Whenever a conflict arises between the provisions of the 2015
international fire code and the amendments set forth in this section, the
following amendments will control: (Ord. M-44-15, 11-16-2015)
[A] 101.1 Title.
These regulations shall be known as the fire code of the city of Des Plaines,
hereinafter referred to as "this code."
[A] 101.2.1 Appendices.
Provisions in the appendices shall not apply unless specifically adopted.
Appendices B, C, D, F, and I are hereby adopted.
[A] 104.1 General.
The fire code official is hereby authorized to enforce the provisions of this
code and those laws and regulations that the fire code official is authorized
or required to enforce by the state fire marshal, and shall have the authority
to render interpretations of this code, and to adopt policies, procedures,
rules and regulations in order to clarify the application of its provisions.
Such interpretations, policies, procedures, rules and regulations shall be in
compliance with the intent and purpose of this code and shall not have the
effect of waiving requirements specifically provided for in this code.
[A] 104.4.1 Unlawful Impersonation.
It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to use an official badge,
uniform, or other credentials to impersonate a fire official for the purpose of
gaining access to any building, structure, vehicle or premises in the city of
Des Plaines.
[A] 104.10.2 Peace Officer Investigation Act.
Any person who is a sworn member of the Des Plaines fire department, and who is
authorized, on behalf of the city of Des Plaines, to investigate fires or
explosions that are suspected to be arson or arson-related crimes, may be
classified by the city of Des Plaines as a peace officer pursuant to the peace
officer fire investigation act, 20 ILCS 2910/1 et seq., which is hereby adopted
in its entirety and incorporated as if fully set forth herein, as it may be
amended from time-to-time.
[A] 104.10.2.1 Peace Officers.
Any sworn member of the Des Plaines fire department who is classified as a
peace officer shall be granted the powers so enumerated in the peace officer
fire investigation act, 20 ILCS 2910/1 et seq., and may exercise such powers
only during the actual investigation of the cause, origin, and circumstances of
fires or explosions that are suspected to be arson or arson-related crimes, and
during the investigation and prosecution of suspects.
[A] 105.4.7 As-Built Floor Plans.
As-built floor plans of all newly constructed buildings and structures, and all
newly constructed additions or alterations to existing buildings and
structures, must be submitted to the fire code official within 30 days after
completion of the work in an electronic format approved by the fire code
official. Such floor plans shall be used as evacuation diagrams for the
occupants of each space on each floor in each building.
Exception: One- and two-family dwelling units.
Section 108 Board Of Appeals.
Section 108 is hereby deleted in its entirety.
[A] 109.4 Violation Penalties.
Section [A] 109.4 is hereby deleted in its entirety.
[A] 111.4 Failure To Comply.
Any person who fails to comply with any requirements of this code; erects,
installs, alters, or repairs work in violation of the approved construction
documents, a directive of the code official, or a permit or certificate issued
under the provisions of this code; or continues any work after having been
served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to
perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be in violation of
this code. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been served
shall be deemed a separate offense.
Section 202 General Definitions.
Fire Code Official. The fire chief or the fire chief's designated
representative charged with the administration and enforcement of the code.
307.4.3 Portable Outdoor Fireplaces.
Approved outdoor fireplaces shall be used in accordance with the manufacturer's
instructions and shall not be operated within 15 feet of a structure or
combustible material. Fuel for an outdoor fireplace shall consist of only
seasoned, dry firewood.
307.4.4 Extinguishment Of Outdoor Fire.
The fire code official is authorized to order the extinguishment of any outdoor
fire to prevent or correct a nuisance or a hazardous condition or to protect
the public health, safety, and welfare.
506.1 Where Required.
With respect to any multi-family residential structure that has a common area,
any structure that has a passenger elevator, automatic fire alarm system, or
automatic fire suppression system, or any other structure or area where access
is restricted because of secure openings, or where immediate access may become
necessary for life-saving or fire-fighting purposes, the fire code official is
authorized to require a key box to be installed in an approved location. The
key box shall be of an approved type listed in accordance with UL 1037, and
shall contain keys to gain necessary access as required by the fire code
official.
507.2.1 Private Fire Service Mains.
Private fire service mains and appurtenances shall be installed in accordance
with NFPA 24. Fire hydrants installed on private property shall be located and
installed as directed by the fire code official. All fire hydrants shall
conform to the standards promulgated by the director of public works and
engineering. Fire hydrants shall not be installed on any water main that is
less than eight (8) inches in diameter. All water mains on which fire hydrants
are installed shall be on a looped system. Fire hydrants may be installed on a
six (6) inch water main only upon good cause shown and only if approved by the
fire code official in writing.
507.5.1.1 Hydrant For Standpipe And Automatic Sprinkler Systems.
Buildings equipped with a standpipe system installed in accordance with section
905 and/or automatic sprinkler systems installed in accordance with section 903
shall have a fire hydrant within 100 feet of the fire department connections.
Exception: The distance shall be permitted to exceed 100 feet only upon good
cause shown and only if approved by the fire code official in writing.
903.4.2 Alarms.
An approved audible device, located on the exterior of the building in an
approved location, shall be connected to each automatic sprinkler system. Such
sprinkler water flow alarm devices shall be activated by water flow equivalent
to the flow of a single sprinkler of the smallest orifice size installed in the
system. Additionally, a white weather-proof strobe light installed above the
fire department connection shall be activated and shall flash when the building
fire alarm system is activated. Where a fire alarm system is installed,
actuation of the automatic sprinkler system shall actuate the building fire
alarm system.
(Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-2014)
907.6.6 Monitoring.
Fire alarm systems required by this chapter or by the international building
code shall transmit alarms via direct connection to the dispatch center of the
Des Plaines fire department as approved by the fire code official. All non-
required fire alarm systems shall be monitored by an approved supervising
station in accordance with NFPA 72.
Exception: Monitoring by a supervising station is not required for:
1.Single- and multiple-station smoke alarms required by section 907.2.11.
2.Smoke detectors in group I-3 occupancies.
3.Automatic sprinkler systems in one- and two-family dwellings.
(Ord. M-44-15, 11-16-2015)
912.1.1 Fire Department Connection Specifications.
New installations of fire department connections shall consist of a 5-inch
storz fitting with a fifteen-degree elbow, and shall be located approximately
36-inches above finished grade. The exact location shall be approved by the
fire code official.
5601.1.3 Fireworks.
The possession, transportation, manufacture, storage, sale, offer for sale,
handling, ignition, display, and use of fireworks or devices that require open
flame, such as match or lighter, to ignite, including without limitation
sparklers, snakes, glow worm pellets, and trick matches are prohibited.
Exceptions:
1.Use of such devices by railroads, public utilities, public and private
carriers, or other transportation agencies for signal purposes or illumination.
2.Sale or use of blank cartridges designed for use in firearms.
3.Use of such devices for signal purposes at organized athletic or sporting
events.
4.Use of such devices by veteran or military organizations.
5.Storage and handling of fireworks as allowed in section 5604.
6.Manufacture, assembly and testing of fireworks as allowed in section 5605.
7.Use of fireworks for fireworks displays as allowed in section 5608.
8.The possession, storage, sale, handling and use of specific types of division
1.4G fireworks where allowed by applicable laws, ordinances and regulations,
provided such fireworks comply with CPSC 16 CFR parts 1500 and 1507, and DOT 49
CFR parts 100-185, for consumer fireworks.
5601.2.2 Possession, Manufacture, Sale, And Retail Display.
No person shall possess, use, manufacture, store, offer or expose for sale,
sell at retail, or discharge any explosives, explosive materials, or fireworks
within the city, with the exception of approved supervised displays of
fireworks in accordance with section 5608 of this code and the use of
explosives for construction or demolition purposes if approved in advance and
in writing by the fire code official.
5704.2.9.6.1 Locations Where Above-Ground Tanks Are Prohibited.
Storage of class I and II liquids in above-ground tanks outside of buildings is
prohibited unless approved in writing by the fire code official.
5706.2.4.4 Locations Where Above-Ground Tanks Are Prohibited.
The storage of class I and II liquids in above-ground tanks is prohibited
unless approved in writing by the fire code official.
5707 Unlawful Disposal Of Combustible Or Flammable Liquids Or Waste Oil.
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a flammable or combustible liquid
or waste oil to flow into a sewer, drain, catch basin, or similar underground
structure, or the fill material around the tank, or any point where the liquid
would contaminate the earth or ground water and/or present a fire hazard.
5806.2 Limitations.
The location and storage of flammable cryogenic fluids in stationary containers
outside of buildings is prohibited unless approved in writing by the fire code
official.
6104.2 Maximum Capacity Within Established Limits.
Storage of liquefied petroleum gas shall not exceed the aggregate water
capacity of 2,000 gallons unless approved in writing by the fire code official.
(Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-2014)
CHAPTER 4
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
10-4-1: Adoption Of The Illinois Plumbing Code
10-4-2: WaterSense Devices
10-4-1: ADOPTION OF THE ILLINOIS PLUMBING CODE:
The city acknowledges and affirms that the Illinois plumbing license law, 225
Illinois Compiled Statutes 320/0.01 et seq., and the Illinois plumbing code
adopted thereunder, 77 Illinois administrative code 890.110 et seq., govern all
plumbing work performed within the city. The Illinois plumbing code is hereby
adopted and incorporated as if fully set forth herein. (Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-
2014)
10-4-2: WATERSENSE DEVICES:
Pursuant to 17 Illinois administrative code 3730.307(c)(4) and subject to the
Illinois plumbing code (77 Ill. adm. code 890) and the lawn irrigation
contractor and lawn sprinkler system registration code (77 Ill. adm. code 892),
all new plumbing fixtures and irrigation controllers installed after April 4,
2016, being the effective date hereof, shall bear the WaterSense label (as
designated by the U.S. environmental protection agency WaterSense program),
when such labeled fixtures are available. (Ord. M-12-16, 4-4-2016)
CHAPTER 5
MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
10-5-1: Adoption Of The International Mechanical Code
10-5-2: Amendments To The International Mechanical Code
10-5-1: ADOPTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE:
The 2015 International Mechanical Code, published by the International Code
Council, Inc., is hereby adopted and incorporated as if fully set forth herein,
except as certain provisions thereof are specifically amended or deleted, and
new provisions are specifically added thereto, pursuant to section
10-5-2 of this chapter. (Ord. M-44-15, 11-16-2015)
10-5-2: AMENDMENTS TO THE INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE:
The 2015 International Mechanical Code, adopted and incorporated by reference
pursuant to this chapter, is hereby amended, in relevant part, to read as set
forth in this section. Subsequent section numbers used in this section refer to
the like numbered sections of, or new sections added to, the 2015 International
Mechanical Code. Whenever a conflict arises between the provisions of the 2015
International Mechanical Code and the amendments set forth in this section, the
following amendments will control: (Ord. M-44-15, 11-16-2015)
[A] 101.1 Title.
These regulations shall be known as the mechanical code of the city of Des
Plaines, hereinafter referred to as "this code."
[A] 101.2.1 Appendices.
Provisions in the appendices shall not apply unless specifically adopted.
Appendix A is hereby adopted.
[A] 106.5.2 Fee Schedule.
The fees for mechanical work shall be as indicated in the schedule set forth in
chapter 13 of title 10 of the Des Plaines city code.
[A] 106.5.3 Fee Refunds.
Permit fee refunds shall be made in accordance with chapter 13 of title 10 of
the Des Plaines city code.
[A] 108.4 Failure To Comply.
Any person who fails to comply with any requirements of this code; erects,
installs, alters or repairs mechanical work in violation of the approved
construction documents, a directive of the code official, or a permit or
certificate issued under the provisions of this code; or continues any work
after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that
person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall
be in violation of this code. Each day that a violation continues after due
notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-2014)
[A] 108.5 Stop Work Orders.
Upon the issuance of a stop work order from the code official that mechanical
work is being done contrary to the provisions of this code or in a dangerous or
unsafe manner, such work shall immediately cease. Stop work orders shall be
issued in accordance with section
10-14-3 of the Des Plaines City Code.
(Ord. M-43-18, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
Section 109 Means Of Appeal.
Section 109 is hereby deleted in its entirety.
(Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-2014)
CHAPTER 6
FUEL GAS CODE
SECTION:
10-6-1: Adoption Of The International Fuel Gas Code
10-6-2: Amendments To The International Fuel Gas Code
10-6-1: ADOPTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE:
The 2015 International Fuel Gas Code, published by the International Code
Council, Inc., is hereby adopted and incorporated as if fully set forth herein,
except as certain provisions thereof are specifically amended or deleted, and
new provisions are specifically added thereto, pursuant to section
10-6-2 of this chapter. (Ord. M-44-15, 11-16-2015)
10-6-2: AMENDMENTS TO THE INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE:
The 2015 International Fuel Gas Code, adopted and incorporated by reference
pursuant to this chapter, is hereby amended, in relevant part, to read as set
forth in this section. Subsequent section numbers used in this section refer to
the like numbered sections of, or new sections added to, the 2015 International
Fuel Gas Code. Whenever a conflict arises between the provisions of the 2015
International Fuel Gas Code and the amendments set forth in this section, the
following amendments will control: (Ord. M-44-15, 11-16-2015)
[A] 101.1 Title.
These regulations shall be known as the fuel gas code of the city of Des
Plaines, hereinafter referred to as "this code."
[A] 101.2.1 Appendices.
Provisions in the appendices shall not apply unless specifically adopted.
Appendices A, B, and C are hereby adopted.
[A] 106.6.2 Fee Schedule.
The fees charged by the city for all fees required by this code are set forth
in chapter 13 of title 10 of the Des Plaines city code.
[A] 106.6.3 Fee Refunds.
Permit fee refunds shall be made in accordance with chapter 13 of title 10 of
the Des Plaines city code.
[A] 108.4 Failure To Comply.
Any person who fails to comply with any requirements of this code; erects,
installs, alters or repairs work in violation of the approved construction
documents, a directive of the code official, or a permit or certificate issued
under the provisions of this code; or continues any work after having been
served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to
perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be in violation of
this code. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been served
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-2014)
[A] 108.5 Stop Work Orders.
Upon the issuance of a stop work order from the code official that work is
being done contrary to the provisions of this code or in a dangerous or unsafe
manner, such work shall immediately cease. Stop work orders shall be issued in
accordance with section
10-14-3 of the Des Plaines City Code.
(Ord. M-43-18, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
Section 109 Means Of Appeal.
Section 109 is hereby deleted in its entirety.
(Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-2014)
CHAPTER 7
ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE
SECTION:
10-7-1: Adoption Of The Illinois Energy Conservation Code
10-7-1: ADOPTION OF THE ILLINOIS ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE:
The city acknowledges and affirms that the Illinois energy efficient building
act, 20 Illinois Compiled Statutes 3125/1 et seq., and the Illinois energy
conservation code adopted thereunder, 71 Illinois administrative code 600.100
et seq., apply within the city. The Illinois energy conservation code is hereby
adopted and incorporated as if fully set forth herein. (Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-
2014)
CHAPTER 8
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
10-8-1: Adoption Of The National Electrical Code
10-8-2: Amendments To And Administration Of The National Electrical Code
10-8-1: ADOPTION OF THE NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE:
The 2014 national electrical code (NFPA 70), published by the National Fire
Protection Association, is hereby adopted and incorporated as if fully set
forth herein, except as certain provisions thereof are specifically amended or
deleted, and new provisions are specifically added thereto, pursuant to section
10-8-2 of this chapter. (Ord. M-44-15, 11-16-2015)
10-8-2: AMENDMENTS TO AND ADMINISTRATION OF THE NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE:
   A.   Amendments: The 2014 national electrical code, adopted and incorporated
by reference pursuant to this chapter, is hereby amended, in relevant part, to
read as set forth in this section. Subsequent section numbers used in this
section refer to the like numbered sections of, or new sections added to, the
2014 national electrical code. Whenever a conflict arises between the
provisions of the 2014 national electrical code and the amendments set forth in
this section, the following amendments will control:
      320.12 Uses Not Permitted [Armored Cable: Type AC]
      Add the following: When used in projects constructed using the
International Building Code (2015), individual lengths of Armored Cable: Type
AC must not exceed six feet in length.
      330.12 Uses Not Permitted [Metal-Clad Cable: Type MC]
      Add a new (3) after 330.12(2) as follows:
      (3)   When used in projects constructed using the International Building
Code (2015), individual lengths of Metal-Clad Cable: Type MC must not exceed
six feet in length.
      410.36 Means Of Support.
      (A) Outlet Boxes. Outlet boxes or fittings installed as required by
314.23 and complying with the provisions of 314.27(A)(1) and 314.27(A)(2) shall
be permitted to support luminaires.
      (B) Suspended Ceilings. Framing members of suspended ceiling systems used
to support luminaires shall be securely fastened to each other and shall be
securely attached to the building structure at appropriate intervals.
Luminaires shall be securely fastened to the structure above at opposite
corners of the fixture housing.
   B.   Administration: Appendix K of the 2015 international building code
shall be used to administer the 2014 national electrical code. (Ord. M-44-15,
11-16-2015; amd. Ord. M-27-21, 11-15-2021)
CHAPTER 9
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
10-9-1: Adoption Of The International Property Maintenance Code
10-9-2: Amendments To The International Property Maintenance Code
10-9-1: ADOPTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE:
The 2015 International Property Maintenance Code, published by the
International Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted and incorporated as if
fully set forth herein, except as certain provisions thereof are specifically
amended or deleted, and new provisions are specifically added thereto, pursuant
to section
10-9-2 of this chapter. (Ord. M-44-15, 11-16-2015)
10-9-2: AMENDMENTS TO THE INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE:
The 2015 International Property Maintenance Code, adopted and incorporated by
reference pursuant to this chapter, is hereby amended, in relevant part, to
read as set forth in this section. Subsequent section numbers used in this
section refer to the like numbered sections of, or new sections added to, the
2015 International Property Maintenance Code. Whenever a conflict arises
between the provisions of the 2015 International Property Maintenance Code and
the amendments set forth in this section, the following amendments will
control:
[A] 101.1 Title.
These regulations shall be known as the international property maintenance code
of the city of Des Plaines, hereinafter referred to as "this code."
[A] 103.5 Fees.
The fees charged by the city of Des Plaines for all permits required by this
chapter are set forth in chapter 13 of title 10 of the Des Plaines city code.
Section 111 Means Of Appeal.
Section 111 is hereby deleted in its entirety.
(Ord. M-44-15, 11-16-2015)
112.2 Issuance.
Stop work orders shall be issued in accordance with section
10-14-3 of the Des Plaines City Code.
112.4 Failure To Comply.
Stop work orders shall be issued and enforced in accordance with section
10-14-3 of the Des Plaines City Code.
(Ord. M-43-18, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
301.4 Utility Shutoffs.
No property owner shall cause any utility service, including without limitation
natural gas, electric, and water, supplied to tenants of any occupied space,
dwelling, or dwelling unit to be interrupted or shut off, except for such
temporary interruption that may be necessary while repairs are being made.
302.1.1 Stored Materials.
No owner or occupant of any building, structure, or dwelling shall permit the
accumulation within the building, structure, or dwelling of any materials,
including without limitation rubbish, boxes, lumber, and scrap metal, in such a
manner that may provide a small animal, rodent, or insect harborage in or about
the building, structure, or dwelling. All real property located outside of any
building, structure, or dwelling shall be kept free from any accumulation of
rubbish, garbage, building materials, litter, junk, vehicle parts, landscape
equipment, and similar materials.
302.1.2 Firewood.
Notwithstanding section 302.1.1 of this code, the storage of firewood in any
building, structure, or dwelling, or on any real property located outside of
any building, structure, or dwelling, is permitted in accordance with this
section 302.1.2. Firewood is defined as logs or kindling materials not
exceeding twenty-four inches (24") in length and suitable for use in a
fireplace or other wood-burning appliance. Firewood must be neatly stacked.
Firewood shall not include pressure treated lumber of any type, wood- framing
components that exceed twenty-four inches (24") in length, or glue laminated
lumber components, such as plywood.
302.3.1 Parking Lot Maintenance.
All driveways and parking spaces for multi-family dwellings and all lots
containing two (2) or more parking spaces shall be kept free of snow, ice, mud,
and other debris at all times. All off-street parking areas shall be maintained
in compliance with the requirements of the city of Des Plaines zoning
ordinance. Snow removed from off-street parking areas shall not be piled on the
public right-of-way.
302.4 Weeds.
All premises and exterior property shall be maintained free from weeds or plant
growth in excess of six inches. All noxious weeds shall be prohibited. Weeds
shall be defined as all grasses, annual plants and vegetation, other than trees
or shrubs provided; however, this term shall not include cultivated flowers and
gardens.
Upon failure of the owner or agent having charge of a property to cut and
destroy weeds after service of a notice of violation, they shall be subject to
prosecution in accordance with section 106.3 and as prescribed by the authority
having jurisdiction. Upon failure to comply with the notice of violation, any
duly authorized employee of the jurisdiction or contractor hired by the
jurisdiction shall be authorized to enter upon the property in violation and
cut and destroy the weeds growing thereon, and the costs of such removal shall
be paid by the owner or agent responsible for the property.
302.7.1 Doors.
All garages and sheds must have doors installed and maintained in a safe and
good working condition.
302.8 Motor Vehicles.
Except as provided for in other regulations, no inoperative or unlicensed motor
vehicle, boat, trailer, or recreational vehicle shall be parked, kept or stored
on any premises, and no vehicle, boat, trailer, or recreational vehicle shall
at any time be in a state of major disassembly, disrepair, or in the process of
being stripped or dismantled. Painting of vehicles is prohibited unless
conducted inside an approved spray booth.
Exception: A vehicle of any type is permitted to undergo major overhaul,
including body work, provided that such work is performed inside a structure or
similarly enclosed area designed and approved for such purposes.
302.8.1 Parking.
All motor vehicles, boats, recreational vehicles, and trailers parked, kept, or
stored on any premises must be parked, kept, or stored inside a structure or
similarly- enclosed area designed and approved for such purpose or on approved
off-street parking areas, including without limitation driveways, car ports,
and parking lots. No motor vehicle, boat, recreational vehicle, or trailer
shall be parked, kept, or stored on grass, dirt, parkways, or other similar
natural surfaces and areas.
302.10 Landscaping.
The owner or operator of any premises, lot, or tract of land shall maintain all
plantings and landscaping on the premises, lot, or tract of land in a neat,
clean, and healthful condition. Without limitation of the foregoing, every
owner or operator of any premises, lots, or tracts of land shall:
   1.   Regularly mow all lawns and other grassy areas;
   2.   Regularly prune and fertilize all plant growth;
   3.   Water all plant growth in accordance with city water use restrictions;
   4.   Promptly remove and discard all fallen limbs, stumps, roots, and
branches;
   5.   Promptly remove and discard all dead or dying trees and other plant
growth; and
   6.   Prevent all plant growth and landscaping from obstructing any public
right-of-way or easement.
304.3.1 Multiple Dwellings To Require Sign Identifying Owner.
(A) The owner of any building used as a multiple dwelling shall post and
maintain in a conspicuous place at or near the front entrance of such building
a legible sign, with letters not less than one-quarter inch (1/4") high,
identifying the owner and/or managing agent of the building and their
respective addresses and phone numbers, including phone numbers to be used in
case of emergency during non- business hours.
(B) If the owner of any building only identifies the managing agent of a
building in accordance with section 304.3.1(A) of this code, the owner shall
provide its current name, address, and phone number to the city department of
community and economic development.
304.7.1 Downspout, Gutter, And Sump Pump Discharge Flow.
All gutters and downspouts shall be securely and firmly fastened to the
building, structure, or dwelling and shall be free of debris. All discharge
from all gutters, downspouts, and sump pumps shall be retained upon the
premises and directed away from adjacent properties or directed into approved
swales or drainage structures. Directing any discharge from any drainage device
on private property onto any public right-of-way is strictly prohibited.
304.8.1 Exterior Fixtures And Accessories.
All fixtures, accessories, and structures attached to a dwelling, including
without limitation, mailboxes, antennas, doorbells, and light fixtures, shall
be securely and firmly fastened to the dwelling and maintained in safe, good,
and working condition.
304.13.3 Boarded-Up Openings Prohibited.
Exterior building openings, including without limitation windows, skylights,
doors, and frames, shall not be boarded up except in the event of a fire or
other emergency and then only for a period not to exceed 30 days.
304.14 Insect Screens.
During the period from April 1 to December 15, every door, window, and other
outside opening required for ventilation of habitable rooms, food preparation
areas, food service areas, or any areas where products to be included or
utilized in food for human consumption are processed, manufactured, packaged or
stored shall be supplied with approved tightly fitting screens of minimum 16
mesh per inch, and every screen door used for insect control shall have a self-
closing device in good working condition.
Exception: Screens shall not be required where other approved means, such as
air curtains or insect repellent fans, are employed.
304.20 Matching Exterior Repairs.
Whenever the repair, replacement or maintenance of exterior walls or roofs is
performed, the completed work shall match, conform, and be consistent with the
remainder of the existing exterior.
305.4.1 Bathroom And Kitchen Floors.
Every water closet compartment, bathroom and kitchen floor surface shall be
constructed and maintained so that the surfaces are substantially impervious to
water to prevent water leaks and to permit the surfaces to be easily kept in a
clean and sanitary condition.
305.7 Window Treatments.
All premises shall have window curtains, drapes, blinds or privacy shades that
are fit, sufficient, and suitable for their intended purpose and that are
installed and maintained in a neat, clean, and safe condition on all windows;
provided, however, that window treatments are not required to be installed on
bay windows or windows, including without limitation stained glass windows,
skylights, glass block windows, or octagon windows, through which the interior
of the premises cannot be seen from the outside.
305.8 Free From Dampness.
Cellars, basements, and crawl spaces in every building, structure, and dwelling
shall be maintained reasonably free from wetness and dampness to prevent
conditions conducive to decay or deterioration of the structure, as required by
the building code.
309.6 Pest Control.
Every owner or operator of any rental property consisting of two (2) or more
units shall have and maintain an annual contract with a licensed pest control
operator for the performance of extermination, pest control, and pest
monitoring services at each rental property. The contract must provide for the
performance of such services not less frequently than on a quarterly basis. A
copy of the contract and quarterly invoices and reports showing the services
performed shall be maintained on the premises and provided to a city inspector
upon request.
403.4.1 Exhaust Vents.
No person shall construct, maintain, or operate pipes, ducts, conductors, fans,
or blowers that discharge gases, steam vapor, hot air, grease, smoke, odors, or
other gaseous or particulate wastes directly upon an abutting or adjacent
property or dwelling.
404.4.4 Prohibited Occupancy.
Kitchens and nonhabitable spaces shall not be used for sleeping purposes. Only
bedrooms shall be used for sleeping purposes.
404.7.1 Floor Surface.
Every food preparation area floor shall be maintained to be a smooth, hard,
nonabsorbent surface to permit such surface to be easily kept in a clean and
sanitary condition.
(Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-2014)
404.8 Basements And Cellars.
No basement or cellar space shall be used as a sleeping room or dwelling unit
unless it meets the following requirements:
1.Floors and walls are watertight and insulated;
2.Emergency escape windows are installed and maintained in a good and safe
working condition in accordance with the requirements of this code; and
Exception: An approved second means of egress.
3.The dwelling unit meets the other requirements of this code.
(Ord. M-44-15, 11-16-2015)
[P] 503.4 Floor Surface.
Every toilet room floor and every toilet facility floor shall be maintained to
be a smooth, hard, nonabsorbent surface to permit such floor to be easily kept
in a clean and sanitary condition.
(Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-2014)
602.3 Heat Supply.
Every owner and operator of any building who rents, leases or lets one or more
dwelling units or sleeping units on terms, either expressed or implied, to
furnish heat to the occupants thereof shall supply heat during the period from
October 1 to May 1 to maintain a minimum temperature of 68°F (20°C) in all
habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms.
Exceptions:
   1.   When the outdoor temperature is below the winter outdoor design
temperature for the locality, maintenance of the minimum room temperature shall
not be required provided that the heating system is operating at its full
design capacity. The winter outdoor design temperature for the locality shall
be as indicated in appendix D of the international plumbing code.
   2.   In areas where the average monthly temperature is above 30°F (-1°C) a
minimum temperature of 65°F (18°C) shall be maintained.
602.4 Occupiable Work Spaces.
Indoor occupiable work spaces shall be supplied with heat during the period
from October 1 to May 1 to maintain a minimum temperature of 65°F (18°C) during
the period the spaces are occupied.
Exceptions:
   1.   Processing, storage and operation areas that require cooling or special
temperature conditions.
   2.   Areas in which persons are primarily engaged in vigorous physical
activities.
(Ord. M-44-15, 11-16-2015)
701.3 Storage Of Combustible Material.
No flammable liquids, gas, or any combustible material shall be stored in any
dwelling or dwelling unit, except as permitted by the city fire code.
701.3.1 Flammable Matter.
Highly flammable or explosive materials, including without limitation paints,
volatile oils, and cleaning fluids, or combustible refuse, including without
limitation waste paper, boxes, and rags, shall not be accumulated or stored on
any premises except in reasonable quantities consistent with normal usage and
as approved by the city fire department.
(Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-2014)
CHAPTER 10
SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL
SECTION:
10-10-1: Purpose
10-10-2: Definitions
10-10-3: General Criteria And Standards
10-10-4: Plan And Permit Required
10-10-5: Plan And Permit Not Required
10-10-6: Application For Permit
10-10-7: Review
10-10-8: Nuisances
10-10-1: PURPOSE:
The mayor and city council declare that the purpose of this chapter is to
provide minimum standards to safeguard persons, to protect property and prevent
the despoliation of the environment, and to promote the public welfare, by
regulating and controlling the design, construction, quality of materials and
use and maintenance of any development or other activity which disturbs or
breaks the topsoil or otherwise results in the movement of earth on land
situated within the corporate limits of the city, or other lands which fall
under the jurisdiction of the city pursuant to the subdivision ordinance or
other applicable regulations. (Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-2014)
10-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms used herein are defined as set
forth below:
BUILDING PERMIT: A permit issued by the city for the construction, erection or
alteration of a structure or building.
CERTIFY OR CERTIFICATION: The required inspections and tests have been
performed and the results comply with the applicable requirements of this
chapter.
CITY: The city of Des Plaines, county of Cook, state of Illinois.
CUBIC YARDS: The amount of material in excavation and/or fill measured by the
method of average end areas.
ENGINEER: A registered professional engineer of the state of Illinois.
EXCAVATION: Any act by which organic matter, earth, sand, gravel, rock or any
other similar material is cut into, dug, quarried, uncovered, removed,
displaced, relocated or bulldozed, and shall include the conditions resulting
therefrom.
EXISTING GRADE: The vertical location of the existing ground surface prior to
excavation or filling.
FILL: Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other similar material
is deposited, placed, replaced, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved to
a new location and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
FINAL GRADE: The vertical location of the ground or pavement surface after the
grading work is completed in accordance with the site development plan.
GRADING: Excavation or fill or any combination thereof and shall include the
conditions resulting from any excavation or fill.
LAND SURVEYOR: A registered surveyor of the state of Illinois.
NATURAL DRAINAGE: Channels formed by the existing surface topography of the
earth prior to changes made by unnatural causes.
PARCEL: All contiguous land in one ownership.
PERMITTEE: Any person to whom a site development permit is issued.
PERSON: Any person, firm or corporation, public or private; the state of
Illinois and its agencies or political subdivisions; the United States Of
America, its agencies and instrumentalities; and any agent, servant, officer or
employee of any of the foregoing.
REMOVAL: Cutting vegetation to the ground or stumps, complete extraction or
killing by spraying.
SITE: A lot or parcel of land, or a contiguous combination thereof, where
grading work is performed as a single unified operation.
SITE DEVELOPMENT: Altering terrain and/or vegetation, or performing any
construction upon or making any other material changes in a land site.
SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: A permit issued by the city for the construction or
alteration of ground improvements and structures for the control of erosion,
runoff and grading.
STRIPPING/STORAGE: Any activity which removes the vegetative surface cover
including tree removal, clearing and storage or removal of topsoil.
VACANT: Land on which there are no structures or only structures which are
secondary to the use or maintenance of the land itself. (Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-
2014)
10-10-3: GENERAL CRITERIA AND STANDARDS:
The following general principles shall apply to any movement and any
sedimentation and erosion control plan and the granting of a permit for the
execution of said plan as hereinafter provided:
   A.   The smallest practical area of land shall be exposed at any given time
during development.
   B.   Such minimum area exposure shall be kept to as short a duration of time
as is practical.
   C.   Where appropriate, temporary vegetation, mulching or other nonviable
cover shall be used to protect areas exposed during development.
   D.   Sediment basins, debris basins, desilting basins or silt traps shall be
installed and maintained to remove sediment from runoff waters from land
undergoing development.
   E.   Provision shall be made to effectively accommodate the increased runoff
caused by changed soil and surface conditions during and after development.
   F.   Permanent, final plant covering or structures shall be installed as
soon as possible.
   G.   The plan of development shall relate to the topography and soils of the
site so that the lowest potential for erosion is created.
   H.   Natural plant covering shall be retained and protected so far as is
consistent with developing the site.
   I.   Where appropriate, velocity retarding devices (temporary or permanent)
shall be installed to reduce the scouring and transport capacities of drainage
ditches. (Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-2014)
10-10-4: PLAN AND PERMIT REQUIRED:
Before land is cleared, filled in, graded, transported or otherwise disturbed
by the movement of earth for construction projects within the city, a site
development permit embodying the proposed earth movement shall be obtained from
the building official, where development comes under any one or more of the
following provisions, unless such development is exempted therefrom by this
chapter:
   A.   Excavation, fill or any combination thereof, will exceed one hundred
(100) cubic yards.
   B.   Fill will exceed three feet (3') in vertical depth at its deepest point
measured from the natural ground surface.
   C.   Excavation will exceed four feet (4') in vertical depth at its deepest
point.
   D.   Excavation, fill, or any combination thereof, will exceed an area of
five thousand (5,000) square feet.
   E.   Plant cover is to be removed from an area exceeding five thousand
(5,000) square feet on any vacant parcel of land or any parcel of land in
excess of ten (10) acres. (Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-2014)
10-10-5: PLAN AND PERMIT NOT REQUIRED:
A site development permit shall not be required in the following cases:
   A.   Any excavation below finished grade for a septic tank and drainfield,
tank, tunnel, basement, swimming pool, cellar or footing of a building or
structure for which a building permit shall have been issued by the city.
   B.   Excavation or removal of vegetation in public utility easements by
public utility companies for the purpose of installing underground utilities.
   C.   Dredging by the city for flood control.
   D.   Tilling of the soil for fire protection purposes.
   E.   Engaging in the following, but only if in connection with a farming or
other agricultural or conservation enterprise and upon property zoned solely
for farming or agricultural purposes and uses:
      1.   The construction of sod waterways; or
      2.   The construction of terraces; or
      3.   The construction of surface water diversions; or
      4.   The construction of grade stabilization structures; or
      5.   The tilling of the soil. (Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-2014)
10-10-6: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   No site development or building permit shall be issued until the
applicant submits an acceptable site development plan and certifies that any
land clearing construction or development involving the movement of earth shall
be in accordance with such plan.
   B.   Each application for a site development permit shall be made by the
owner of the property or his authorized representative to the building official
and shall be accompanied by a site development plan consisting of the
following, unless the building official finds any item unnecessary to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this chapter; provided, however, that no
exemption from subsection B1 of this section shall be granted to any applicant
who intends to move in excess of five hundred (500) cubic yards of dirt:
      1.   With respect to site developments, a vicinity sketch, showing
acreage of site, boundary line survey, zoning, type of proposed sewer and water
facilities, location of existing utilities, buildings and drains on and within
one hundred feet (100') of the site, together with a legend and scale. There
shall be included on or with such a vicinity sketch:
         a.   A soil map of the subject property showing the predominant soil
types on the site.
         b.   Information regarding those areas abutting or adjacent to the
site sufficient to show existing drainage patterns and the drainage course that
may affect, or be affected by the development of the site.
         c.   The name and address of the developer and owner.
         d.   The name and address of any consulting firm retained by the
applicant, together with the name of applicant's principal contact at such
firm.
         e.   Limits of regulatory floodplain(s).
         f.   Areas to be sodded, seeded, mulched or paved.
         g.   Acreage of area to be vegetatively stabilized, if any.
         h.   Areas to be left undisturbed.
      2.   With respect to site grading, a grading plan showing the site and a
one hundred foot (100') adjacent peripheral strip, proposed contours at one
foot (1') intervals and final grades, street profiles, and an indication of
what measures will be employed to protect cut and fill slopes from surface
runoff.
      3.   Storm drainage plan based upon a competent study, including a
drainage area map and computations, and indicating what conditions now prevail
at proposed and natural outlets such as:
         a.   Whether the drainage course is bare earth or vegetated.
         b.   Whether the constructed outlet will be in open sun, open shade or
dense shade.
         c.   Whether the natural or proposed outlet is subject to long term or
continuous flow.
         d.   Whether there is evidence of a high water table (permanent or
seasonal).
         e.   Whether the existing outlet is actively eroding.
         f.   Whether the area is subject to seepage or spring flow.
         g.   The elevation of normal water level in all proposed and natural
outlets.
         h.   A profile below outlet for a sufficient distance to indicate the
natural gradient of the accepting natural outlet and/or stream channel.
         i.   A cross section and profile of existing stream channels where
applicable.
         j.   A ditch design and computations for all seeded, sodded or bare
earth outlets, ditches and similar water conduction facilities.
      4.   Estimated time schedule and phasing of development of the site:
Phase I strip - Stripping and/or clearing
Phase II - Rough grading and construction
Phase III - Final grading and vegetative establishment
Phase IV - Maintenance
All erosion and sediment control plans submitted for approval shall show all
the erosion and sediment control measures needed to provide protection
throughout all the phases of construction listed above. These plans shall also
include any off site borrow and spoil areas, sewer lines, utility lines, haul
and access roads, and shall further indicate:
         a.   The date when clearing of the site will begin.
         b.   Duration of exposure of disturbed areas.
         c.   Installation of temporary sediment control measures (vegetative
and structural) by phase and date.
         d.   Installation of storm drainage by phase and date.
         e.   Paving of streets and parking areas, if any, by phase and date.
         f.   Establishment of permanent vegetative cover (plans will show what
will be done to shorten the duration of exposure of disturbed areas as soon
after grading as possible), including seeding mixes and rates, type of sod,
seedbed preparation, seeding dates, lime and fertilizer application rates,
temporary seedings, if needed, mulching, or similar stabilization procedures.
         g.   Details of all structural sediment control measures.
         h.   Computations for sediment basins, if any.
      5.   For the purpose of exemplifying the considerations and factors which
should enter into the preparation of a site development plan, the standards and
requirements of the "Standards And Specifications For Soil Erosion And Sediment
Control In Northeastern Illinois", latest edition, as prepared by the north
Cook County soil and water conservation district, shall be used.
A site development permit shall not be issued unless the permittee shall first
post with the city clerk a bond executed by the landowner and a corporate
surety with authority to do business in this state as surety. The surety's name
shall also appear in the U.S. department of treasury circular 570.
The bond shall be in a form approved by the city attorney, payable to the city
and in the amount of the estimated total cost of all temporary and/or permanent
soil erosion control measures. The total cost shall be estimated by the
applicant and approved by the sanitarian. In lieu of a surety bond, the
applicant may file with the city a cash bond or an instrument of credit
approved by the city attorney in the amount equal to that which would be
required for the surety bond. The bond or other surety shall be callable by the
city upon failure to comply with the site development plan and permit. (Ord. M-
14-14, 5-19-2014)
10-10-7: REVIEW:
To further the specific purposes of this chapter, the following review
procedures are established:
   A.   Processing Of Site Development Application: The sanitarian shall review
all site development applications. Following such review, the sanitarian, in
writing, shall:
      1.   Approve the site development application if it conforms with the
provisions of this chapter and issue a permit;
      2.   Approve the site development application subject to such reasonable
conditions as deemed necessary to secure substantially the objectives of this
chapter and issue a permit subject to those conditions; or
      3.   Disapprove the site development application.
   B.   Prohibition Of Earth Removal: No site development permit shall be
issued for an intended building site unless:
      1.   Such permit is accompanied by or combined with a valid building
permit issued by the city; or
      2.   The proposed earthmoving is coordinated with any overall plan
previously approved by the city for the parcel in which the site is situated.
The applicant may appeal the decision of the sanitarian to the mayor and city
council for final disposition.
Failure of the city officials to observe or recognize hazardous or unsightly
conditions or to recommend denial of the site development permit, or of the
sanitarian to deny such permit, shall not relieve the permittee from
responsibility for the condition or damage resulting therefrom, and shall not
result in the city or its officers or agents being responsible for any
condition or damage resulting therefrom.
Plans, specifications and reports for all site developments shall be retained
by the sanitarian.
The sanitarian shall make inspections as hereinafter required and shall either
approve that portion of the work completed or shall notify the permittee
wherein the same fails to comply with the site development plan. Where it is
found by inspection that conditions are not substantially as stated or shown in
the said plan, the sanitarian may stop further work until approval is obtained
to revise the plan conforming to the existing conditions. Plans for the work,
bearing the stamp of approval of the sanitarian, shall be maintained at the
site during progress of the work. Until the final inspection is made, a copy of
the site development permit issued by the city, shall be available on the
property. In order to obtain inspections in accordance with the following
schedule, the permittee shall notify the sanitarian at least two (2) full
working days before the said inspection is to be made:
   A.   Rough Grading: When all rough grading has been completed.
   B.   Final Inspection: When all work, including installation of all drainage
and other structures and required plantings has been completed.
All earthmoving, grading and grading operations not specifically exempted by
the provisions of this chapter shall comply with the applicable standards and
requirements set forth in this chapter.
"Illinois Procedures And Standards For Urban Soil Erosion And Sedimentation
Control", latest edition thereof, as prepared by the north Cook County soil and
water conservation district are hereby incorporated into this chapter and made
part hereof by this reference, for the purpose of delineating procedures and
methods of operation under development plans approved in this chapter. In the
event of conflict between provisions of the said handbook and other provisions
of this chapter, the provisions of this chapter shall govern.
   A.   If at any stage of the grading the sanitarian determines by inspection
that further work as authorized by an existing permit is likely to imperil any
property, public way, watercourse or drainage structure, the sanitarian may
require, as a condition to allowing the work to be done, that such reasonable
special precautions be taken as deemed advisable to avoid the likelihood of
such peril. Special precautions may include, but shall not be limited to,
specifying a more level exposed slope, construction of additional drainage
facilities, berms, terracing, compaction or cribbing, installation of plant
materials for erosion control, and reports of a registered professional
engineer whose recommendations may be made requirements for further work.
   B.   Where it appears that storm damage may result because the grading is
not complete, work may be stopped and the permittee required to install
temporary plantings to control erosion, install temporary structures or take
such other measures as may be required to protect adjoining property or the
public safety. On large operations or where unusual site conditions prevail,
the sanitarian may specify the time of starting grading and time of completion
or may require that the operation be conducted in specific stages so as to
ensure completion of protective measures or devices prior to the advent of
seasonal rains.
Every site development permit shall expire by limitation and become null and
void if the work authorized by such permit has not been commenced within one
hundred eighty (180) days, or is not completed within one year from date of
issue; except that the sanitarian may, if the permit holder presents
satisfactory evidence that unusual difficulties have prevented work being
started or completed within the specified time limits, grant a reasonable
extension of time, not to exceed ninety (90) days, if written application is
made before the expiration date of the permit.
   A.   Authority To Make Exception: The mayor and city council, after
recommendation by the sanitarian, may authorize exceptions to any of the
requirements and regulations set forth in this chapter upon the conditions of
this section.
   B.   Application For Exception: Application for any exception shall be made
by a verified petition of applicant stating fully the grounds of the
application and the facts relied upon by the petitioner. Such petition shall be
filed with the site development permit application. In order for the land
referred to in the petition to come within the provisions of this section, it
shall be necessary that the sanitarian find the following facts with respect
thereto:
      1.   That the land is of such shape or size or is affected by such
physical conditions or is subject to such title limitations of records that it
is impossible or impractical for the subdivides to comply with all of the
regulations of this chapter.
      2.   That the granting of the exception will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property in the vicinity of the subject
property.
In the event any person holding a site development permit pursuant to this
chapter violates the terms of the permit, or conducts or carries on said site
development in such a manner as to adversely affect the health, welfare or
safety of persons residing or working in the neighborhood of the property of
the said permittee, or conducts or carries on said site development so that it
is detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to property or improvements
in the neighborhood, the sanitarian shall revoke or suspend the site
development permit.
Permit valuations and fees for all permits required by this code shall be
determined in accordance with chapter 13 of this title. (Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-
2014)
10-10-8: NUISANCES:
This chapter shall not be construed as authorizing any person to maintain a
private or public nuisance upon their property, and compliance with the
provisions of this chapter shall not be a defense in any action to abate such
nuisance.
In addition to any other penalty that may apply, any person violating the
provisions of this chapter shall restore the property to the condition it was
in prior to the violation or shall bear the expense of such restoration. (Ord.
M-14-14, 5-19-2014)
CHAPTER 11
RESERVED
(Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-2014)
CHAPTER 12
RESERVED
(Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-2014)
CHAPTER 13
CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS FEE SCHEDULE
SECTION:
10-13-1: Construction Values
10-13-2: Plan Review Fees
10-13-3: Fees For Permits And Inspections
10-13-1: CONSTRUCTION VALUES:
For the purpose of computing building permit fees, the estimated value of new
construction and alterations shall be determined by the Code official by one of
the following methods:
   A.   The Code official may accept an estimate furnished by the permit
applicant.
   B.   The Code official may accept a certificate of the valuation of
construction from a licensed architect or a registered structural or
professional engineer.
   C.   The Code official may accept a copy of an executed contract from the
owner or the owner's agent setting forth the value of the proposed work.
   D.   The Code official may estimate the value of new construction based on
the most current Building Valuation Data (BVD) Table published by the
International Code Council (ICC), rounded to the nearest dollar.
   E.   The Code official may estimate the value of alterations based on the
following formula:
      [Value/sq. ft. from BVD Table x 50% and rounded to nearest dollar =
value/sq. ft. alterations]
   F.   The Code official may estimate the value of commercial site work,
including grading, parking, landscaping, at ten dollars ($10.00) per square
foot of gross site area. (Ord. M-42-18, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019; amd. Ord. M-
2-23, 2-16-2023)
10-13-2: PLAN REVIEW FEES:
For any plans requiring a review, a fee shall be paid in accordance with the
following schedules:
   PLAN REVIEW FEE SCHEDULE
One- and two-family dwellings and        
townhomes:
 New one and two-family dwellings      $500.00 per dwelling unit
 New townhomes                         $1,000.00 per model; $200.00 per
                                        subsequent unit
 Additions one and two-family          $200.00 per dwelling unit
 Mobile Homes                          $250.00
Commercial, industrial and multi-family  
buildings:
 0 - 1,000 sq. ft.                     $ 400.00
 1,001 - 5,000 sq. ft.                 $ 800.00
 5,001 - 10,000 sq. ft.                $ 1,200.00
 10,001 - 15,000 sq. ft.               $ 1,600.00
 15,001 - 20,000 sq. ft.               $ 1,800.00
 20,001+ sq. ft.                       $2,200.00 plus $0.03 per sq. ft. over
                                        20,001 sq. ft.
 Plan review of revisions to approved  2% of applicable Permit fee (minimum
  plans                                 $50.00)
Fees for Third-Party Plan Review:
 Third-Party Plan Review1              Paid to the City of Des Plaines
Note:
   1.   When (i) the Community and Economic Development Director has determined
that third-party plan review is appropriate, and (ii) the cost of the third-
party plan review exceeds the applicable plan review fee, the applicant must
remit the cost of the third-party plan review, less the plan review fee already
paid, directly to the City of Des Plaines.
(Ord. M-42-18, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019; amd. Ord. M-24-19, 10-7-2019; Ord. M-
2-23, 2-16-2023)
10-13-3: FEES FOR PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS:
For any permit issued in compliance with this Code, a fee shall be paid in
accordance with the following schedules:
   PERMIT FEE SCHEDULE
One- and two-family dwellings and
townhomes:
 Fee calculations:                        
  New construction, additions, and      Value x 1.75% (rounded up to $1.00)
    alterations (all-inclusive)
 Minimum new construction or alteration   
  permit fee = $50.00
 Single permit and fees:                  
  Plumbing                              $100.00
  Hot Water Heater Replacement          $50.00
  Water service upgrade with new tap    $1,000.00 plus meter4 (if required)
  Water service upgrade from B-box      $100.00
  Sewer repair                          100.00
  Fire suppression system               $150.00 plus $1.00/head
  Electrical                            $100.00 plus $0.10/opening (rounded
                                          up to $1.00)
  Generator                             $200.00
  Electric service upgrade/replace      200.00
  Vehicle Charging Station              200.00
  Low voltage (fire alarm, burglar      100.00
    alarm)
  HVAC/Mechanical (remove/replace)      $75.00
  HVAC/Mechanical New                   Value2 x 1.5% (rounded up to $1.00)
                                          min $75
  Site drainage and grading             Value x 1% (rounded up to $1.00)
  Demolition (see Cash Compliance       $300.00 for primary structure/$100
    Bonds)                                for each accessory structure14
  Interior demolition                   $100.00
  In-ground swimming pool               400.00
  Swimming pool or hot-tub(above        200.00
    ground)
  Swimming pool above ground (storable) 50.00
  Pergola, gazebo                       100.00
  Deck                                  200.00
  Lawn irrigation system                50.00
  Shed                                  50.00
  Fence                                 50.00
  Roofing, windows or doors             50.00
  Siding                                50.00
  Hard surface (driveway/patio/         100.00
    sidewalks)
  Temporary Pods/Dumpsters (Right of    50.00
    Way))
  Disaster repair (all-inclusive)3      100.00
  Kitchen alteration (no structural     150.00
    work)
  Bathroom alteration (no structural    100.00
    work)
  Temporary Certificate of Occupancy    $300.00 (per issuance and per
    fee                                   extensions)
  Stop work order fee10                 Equivalent to the building permit fee
                                          ($1,500.00 maximum cap)
Commercial, industrial and multi-family buildings:
 Fee calculations:
  New construction and alterations (all-inclusive):
  Under $1.5m                           Value2 x 1.75% (rounded up to $1.00)
  $1.5m - $3.5m                         Value2 x 1.65% (rounded up to $1.00)
  $3.5m - $7.0m                         Value2 x 1.5% (rounded up to $1.00)
  $7.0m - $10m                          Value2 x 1.25% (rounded up to $1.00)
  $10m+                                 Value2 x 1.0% (rounded up to $1.00)
  Minimum commercial alteration,
 addition, new construction permit fee =  
  $100.00
 Single permits and fees:                 
  Plumbing (interior)                   $150.00
  Water service upgrade with new tap    $1,000.00 plus meter4
  Water service upgrade from B-box      $250.00
  Lawn irrigation system                $100.00
  Sewer repair                          $ 250.00
  Fire suppression system               $150.00 plus $1.00/head or nozzle
  Electrical                            $100.00 plus $0.15/per opening
                                          (rounded up to $1.00)
  Generator                             $200.00
  Vehicle Charging Station              Value2 x 1.5% (rounded up to $1.00)
  Electric service                      300.00
  Electric service (dwelling unit)      200.00
  Low voltage(fire alarm, burglar       100.00
    alarm)
  HVAC rooftop unit, boiler, unit       $250.00/unit
    healer or furnace (remove/replace)
    HVAC heater, furnace, or air
  conditioner - for dwelling unit       $75.00 per unit
    (remove/replace)
  HVAC - general (new)                  Value2 x 1.5% (rounded up to $1.00)
                                          min $250
  Hood (upgrade/replace/new)            Value2 x 1.5% (rounded up to $1.00)
                                          min $250
  Site work - new parking, drainage/    Value2 x 1% (rounded up to $1.00)
    grading
  Site work - remove/replace hard       $100.00 plus $0.02/sq. ft. (rounded
    surfaces                              up to $1.00)
  Temp Pods/Dumpsters                   $50.00
  Temporary Tent/Trailer                $100.00
  Demolition (see Cash Compliance       Value1 x 1% (rounded up to $1.00)
    Bonds)
  Interior demolition                   $200.00
  Roofing                               $100.00 plus $0.05/sq. ft. (rounded
                                          up to $1.00)
  Tank installation or removal          $300.00 plus $0.01/gallon (rounded up
                                          to $1.00)
  Fence                                 $100.00 plus $1.00/linear foot
  Elevators, escalators, lifts, etc.    $150.00
    (install or repair):
  Temporary and/or partial Certificate  $450.00 (per issuance and per
    of Occupancy fee                      extensions)
  Stop work order fee10                 Equivalent to the building permit fee
                                          ($1,500.00 maximum cap)
 Re-Inspections
  Re-Inspection Fee13                   $50.00
  Signs:
  Temporary signs and banners           $ 50.00
  Permanent signs (new and replacement) 150.006
  Billboards and electronic message     250.006
    board billboard signs
 Cash compliance bonds:
  Demolition                            $5,000.00 or value of site
                                          restoration1, 14
  Temporary Certificate of Occupancy    $5,000.007
 Local public entities and nonprofit organizations8:
  Local public entities permit          No charge5
  Nonprofit organizations permit        20% of Standard permit fee
  Re-Inspection fee13                   $50.00
  Plan review fee
  Construction Value $500,000 or less   No Charge
    Construction Value more than $500,000 See Note 11
  Permit fee refunds9:
  Permit fee over $100.00               Refund = (fee x 75%)
 Backflow administrative fee:
  Backflow administrative fee           $19.95 per device
 
Notes:
   1.    As determined in accordance with Building Code section 3303.1
Demolition Permit - Construction Documents, Performance Security.
   2.    Including all site work when not part of a subdivision per title 13 of
this Code.
   3.    When declared by City Council.
   4.    Current market price at time of permit issuance.
   5.    Additional fees for electrical and/or structural permits may apply.
   6.    Additional fees for electrical and/or structural permits may apply.
The fee for the structural permit shall be 1.5 percent of the value of the
alteration. The Building Official may, at their discretion, require a third-
party inspection of the billboard or electronic message board billboard. The
applicant is responsible for the cost of any third-party inspection.
   7.    In accordance with Building Code section [A] 111.1.1 Temporary
Certificate of Occupancy.
   8.    County, township, Municipality, Municipal corporation, school district
or board, Forest Preserve District, Park District, Fire Protection District,
Sanitary District, library systems, all other local government bodies.
   9.    When no work has begun.
   10.    In accordance with section
10-14-3 of this Code.
   11.   Local Public Entities are subject to the plan review fees set forth in
the Plan Review Table in Section
10-13-2. The Community and Economic Development Director may waive the plan
review fee upon written request.
   12.   No charge for local public entities and nonprofit organizations.
   13.   The cost of two inspections per trade discipline (e.g. plumbing,
electrical, HVAC, etc.) are included in the building permit fee. After two
failed inspections for a particular discipline (e.g. plumbing, electrical,
HVAC, etc.), the re-inspection fee will apply to each subsequent re-inspection
for that trade.
   14.   Bond is required for all commercial, industrial, and multifamily
structures, and residential one- and two-family dwellings and townhome
principal structures. Detached garages and structures such as sheds, pergolas,
and gazebos accessory to one- and two-family dwellings and townhomes do not
require a bond.
(Ord. M-42-18, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019; amd. Ord. M-24-19, 10-7-2019; Ord. M-
1-21, 2-1-2021; Ord. M-2-23, 2-16-2023)
CHAPTER 14
VIOLATIONS AND APPEALS
SECTION:
10-14-1: Violations
10-14-2: Appeals
10-14-3: Stop Work Orders
10-14-1: VIOLATIONS:
In addition to any other penalties that may apply, violations of any provision
of this title are punishable by a fine in accordance with section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has
been served shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-2014)
10-14-2: APPEALS:
   A.   Applicability: This section applies to any appeal of any order,
decision, or determination made by an official authorized to make the order,
decision, or determination pursuant to any chapter of this title. If any
provision of this section is inconsistent with any provision of any model code
adopted by reference in this title, or any other provision of this title, this
section will control.
   B.   Appeals: Appeals of orders, decisions or determinations made by an
authorized Code official relative to the application and interpretation of this
title shall be heard by the City Manager or, in the City Manager's discretion,
the City of Des Plaines Administrative Hearing Officer or an Ad Hoc Appeals
Board appointed by the City Manager.
   C.   Limitations On Appeals: An application for appeal shall be based on a
claim that the true intent of a provision of this title, or the rules legally
adopted thereunder, has been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this
title do not fully apply, or the applicant has proposed an equally good or
better form of performing and completing the applicable work than is required
by the provisions of this title.
   D.   Qualifications Of Appeals Board: If the City Manager appoints an Ad Hoc
Appeals Board to hear an appeal, the Board shall consist of at least three (3)
members who are qualified by experience and training to pass on matters
pertaining to the subject matter of the appeal. Board members shall not be
employees of the City of Des Plaines. (Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-2014)
10-14-3: STOP WORK ORDERS:
   A.   Stop Work Order: Any City official charged with responsibility for
administering this Code shall have the power to issue a stop work order, either
orally or in writing, directing that the following prohibited activities cease
and desist immediately, provided that if the stop work order is oral, it shall
be followed within twenty four (24) hours by a written stop work order:
      1.   Any construction, alteration, installation, repair or demolition of
any building, structure, premises, or part thereof which is being done or has
been done without any permit required by this Code; or
      2.   Any construction, alteration, installation, repair or demolition of
any building, structure, premises or part thereof which is being done or has
been done contrary to the drawings, plans, or application which the appropriate
department of the City approved when issuing any permit; or
      3.   Any maintenance or operation of any building, structure, premises,
mechanical installation, equipment or part thereof which is being done without
any permit or certificate required by this Code; or
      4.   Any construction, alteration, installation, repair or demolition of
any building, structure, premises or part thereof which is being done or has
been done:
         a.   By workers lacking a contractor registration required under this
Code for such work; or
         b.   By workers required by this Code to be listed on the building
permit application who were not listed.
   B.   Violation: Work shall not be resumed after the issuance of a stop work
order except on the written permission of the applicable City department head.
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly violate a stop work order, or
to knowingly cause, allow or direct another person to violate a stop work
order, or to knowingly in any manner be a party to a violation of a stop work
order.
   C.   Penalty: Any person found in violation of subsection B of this section
shall be fined in accordance with the general penalty set forth in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   D.   Stop Work Order - Fees:
      1.   New Permit Fee: Whenever any person or entity shall apply for a new
permit from the City as a result of a stop work order issued pursuant to
subsection A1 of this section, the permit fee assessed for the new permit shall
be the applicable permit fee plus an additional amount of one hundred percent
(100%) of the applicable permit fee or one thousand five hundred dollars
($1,500.00), whichever is less.
      2.   Revised Permit Fee: Whenever any person or entity shall apply for a
revised permit from the City as a result of a stop work order issued pursuant
to subsection A2 of this section, the permit fee assessed for the revised
permit shall be the applicable permit fee plus an additional amount of one
hundred percent (100%) of the applicable permit fee or one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00), whichever is less.
      3.   Contractor Registration Fee: Whenever any person or entity shall
apply for a revised permit from the City as a result of a stop work order
issued pursuant to subsection A4 of this section, such person or entity must
obtain the required contractor registration from the City and pay a permit
application revision fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). (Ord. M-43-18,
11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
TITLE 11
RESERVED
(Ord. M-14-14, 5-19-2014)
TITLE 12
ZONING
PREFACE
___________________________
   This Zoning Code of the City of Des Plaines, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance M-10-25, passed April 21, 2025, and
ordinance Z-3-25, passed March 3, 2025. Ordinances of the City adopted after
said ordinance supersede the provisions of this Zoning Code to the extent that
they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City office in
order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the Zoning Code has been
amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE, AND EFFECT
SECTION:
12-1-1: Title
12-1-2: Authority
12-1-3: Purpose
12-1-4: Scope Of Regulations
12-1-5: Interpretation
12-1-6: Severability
12-1-7: Repeal Of Previous Ordinance
12-1-8: Effective Date
12-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known, cited and referred to as the DES PLAINES ZONING
ORDINANCE OF 1998 or the ZONING ORDINANCE. Any reference to this title
following its effective date shall mean this entire title as it may hereafter
be amended. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This Des Plaines zoning ordinance of 1998 is hereby enacted subject to the
provisions of article VII of the 1970 Illinois constitution, and it is the
intention of this chapter to exercise the rights of the city of Des Plaines as
a home rule unit pursuant to article VII, and it is the further intention of
this chapter to supersede the limitations of the Illinois municipal code or any
other statute or law. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-1-3: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this zoning ordinance is to regulate and control the use and
development of land within the city of Des Plaines. It is designed to promote
the public health, safety, and general welfare, and more specifically to:
   A.   Support the goals, objectives, and policies of the comprehensive plan
and other plans adopted by the city of Des Plaines;
   B.   Divide the city into zoning districts and establish, by reference to a
zoning map, the boundaries of such districts;
   C.   Prohibit uses, buildings, or structures incompatible with the stated
purpose of such districts;
   D.   Establish standards to which uses, buildings and structures within each
district shall conform, therein restricting and regulating their location,
construction, reconstruction, or alteration;
   E.   Regulate the intensity of the use of each lot by requiring open areas
around buildings and structures, to provide adequate light and ventilation;
   F.   Prevent the overcrowding of land to ensure safety from fire, panic and
other dangers;
   G.   Encourage compatibility between different land uses and protect the
scale and character of existing development from the encroachment of
incompatible development;
   H.   Limit congestion in the public streets by providing for off street
parking, loading and unloading of vehicles and by providing for alternative
transportation modes where appropriate;
   I.   Protect and enhance the taxable value of land, buildings, and
structures;
   J.   Designate and define the powers and duties of the bodies and/or
official(s) administering and enforcing this title and the procedures by which
this title is administered; and
   K.   Prescribe penalties for the violation of this title. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-
21-1998)
12-1-4: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   All buildings erected hereafter, all uses of land or buildings
established hereafter, all structural alteration or relocation of existing
buildings occurring hereafter, and all enlargements of or additions to existing
uses occurring hereafter shall be subject to all regulations of this title
which are applicable to the zoning districts in which such buildings, uses or
land shall be located.
   B.   However, where a building permit for a building or structure has been
issued in accordance with law prior to the effective date hereof and provided
that construction is begun within one year of such effective date and
diligently prosecuted to completion, said building or structure may be
completed in accordance with the approved plans on the basis of which the
building permit has been issued, and further may upon completion be occupied
under a certificate of occupancy by the use for which originally designated -
subject thereafter to the provisions of chapter 5, "Nonconforming Uses And
Structures", of this title.
   C.   Existing uses, buildings, and structures that do not comply with the
regulations of this zoning ordinance shall be subject to the regulations of
chapter 5, "Nonconforming Uses And Structures", of this title. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-
21-1998)
12-1-5: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   The provisions of this title shall be held to be the minimum
requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety, and general
welfare.
   B.   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this title upon the
use of land or buildings or upon the bulk of buildings or structures are either
more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any
other provision of this title or of any other law, ordinance, resolution, rule
or regulation of any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive (or which
impose higher standards or requirements) shall govern.
   C.   This title is not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant or any
other private agreement, provided that where the regulations of this zoning
ordinance are more restrictive (or impose higher standards or requirements)
than such easements, covenants or other private agreements, the requirements of
this zoning ordinance shall govern.
   D.   No building, structure or use which was not lawfully existing at the
time of the adoption hereof shall become or be made lawful solely by reason of
the adoption of this title; and to the extent that, and in any manner that,
said unlawful building, structure or use is in conflict with the requirements
of this title, said building, structure or use remains unlawful hereunder.
(Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-1-6: SEVERABILITY:
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the mayor and city council of the
city of Des Plaines that the several provisions of this title are severable, in
accordance with the following:
   A.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision of
this title to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other provisions
of this title not specifically included in said judgment; or
   B.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of this title to a particular property, building
or other structure, such judgment shall not affect the application of said
provision to any other property, building or structure not specifically
included in said judgment. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-1-7: REPEAL OF PREVIOUS ORDINANCE:
After the effective date hereof, all provisions of the zoning ordinance of Des
Plaines adopted June 20, 1960, as heretofore amended, are hereby expressly
repealed. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-1-8: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This title was adopted and became effective on September 21, 1998. (Ord. Z-8-
98, 9-21-1998)
CHAPTER 2
LEGISLATIVE AND ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY
SECTION:
12-2-1: Summary Of Authority
12-2-2: City Council
12-2-3: Planning And Zoning Board
12-2-4: Zoning Board Of Appeals 1
(Rep. by Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
12-2-5: Zoning Administrator
12-2-6: Decision Making Diagram
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  12-2-3 of this chapter.
12-2-1: SUMMARY OF AUTHORITY:
The city decision making bodies and officials described in this chapter,
without limitation upon such authority as each may possess by law, have
responsibility for implementing and administering this title in the manner
described in sections
12-2-2 through
12-2-5 of this chapter. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-2-2: CITY COUNCIL:
The city council, as the city's legislative body, hereby reserves to itself the
following powers and duties in connection with the implementation of this
title:
   A.   To initiate amendments to the text of this zoning ordinance and to the
zoning map, subject to the regulations of section
12-3-7, "Amendments", of this title;
   B.   To grant or deny amendments to the text of this zoning ordinance and to
the zoning map, upon recommendation of the PZB, subject to the regulations of
section
12-3-7, "Amendments", of this title;
   C.   To grant or deny any variations not within the jurisdiction of the PZB
or the zoning administrator, upon recommendation of the PZB, subject to the
regulations of section
12-3-6, "Variations", of this title; provided, however that the city council
shall have jurisdiction to grant or deny any variation that would normally be
under the jurisdiction of the PZB, when the applicant is concurrently
requesting other relief over which the city council has original jurisdiction
pursuant to this section;
   D.   To grant or deny conditional use permits, upon recommendation of the
PZB, subject to the regulations of section
12-3-4, "Conditional Uses", of this title;
   E.   To grant or deny planned unit developments, upon recommendation of the
PZB, subject to the regulations of section
12-3-5, "Planned Unit Developments", of this title;
   F.   To take such other actions not delegated to other bodies or officials
as may be desirable or necessary to implement the provisions of this title; and
   G.   To grant or deny extensions for nonconforming uses and buildings,
subject to the regulations of chapter 5, "Nonconforming Uses And Structures",
of this title. (Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
12-2-3: PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD:
The planning and zoning board ("PZB") created by section
2-2-1 of the city code, shall be comprised as set forth in
title 2, chapter 2 of the city code and shall be vested with the following
jurisdiction and authority under the zoning ordinance:
   A.   To initiate amendments to the text of this zoning ordinance and to the
zoning map, subject to the regulations of section
12-3-7, "Amendments", of this title;
   B.   To hear and make recommendations to the city council regarding
amendments to the zoning ordinance and to the zoning map, subject to the
regulations of section
12-3-7, "Amendments", of this title; and
   C.   To hear and make recommendations to the city council regarding planned
unit developments, including preliminary and final plats, subject to the
regulations of section
12-3-5, "Planned Unit Developments", of this title.
   D.   To grant or deny appeals from any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the zoning administrator under this zoning ordinance,
subject to the regulations of section
12-3-9, "Appeals", of this title.
   E.   To grant or deny any variations from the zoning ordinance not within
the jurisdiction of the zoning administrator or the city council, subject to
the regulations of section
12-3-6, "Variations", of this title;
   F.   To hear and make recommendations to the city council regarding
variations from the zoning ordinance that are within the jurisdiction of the
city council, subject to: 1) the regulations of section
12-3-6, "Variations", of this title; and 2) the provision of section
12-2-2, "City Council", of this title regarding the city council's authority
over variations when other relief is being requested concurrently;
   G.   To hear and make recommendations to the city council regarding
conditional uses, subject to the regulations of section
12-3-4, "Conditional Uses", of this title; and
   H.   To hear and make recommendations to the city council regarding
localized alternative sign regulations, subject to the requirements of section
12-11-8, "Localized Alternative Sign Regulations", of this title and the
regulations of section
12-3-4, "Conditional Uses", of this title. (Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
12-2-4: ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS 1
:
(Rep. by Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  12-2-3 of this chapter.
12-2-5: ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Creation: It is hereby established that the director of community and
economic development or his designee shall serve as the zoning administrator.
(Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
   B.   Duties Of The Office Of Zoning Administrator: The zoning administrator
shall enforce this zoning ordinance, and in addition thereto and in furtherance
of said authority shall:
      1.   Grant or deny all zoning certificates and make and maintain records
thereof, subject to the regulations of section
12-3-3, "Zoning Certificates", of this title;
      2.   Interpret the provisions of this title, subject to the regulations
of section
12-3-8, "Administrative Interpretations", of this title; (Ord. Z-11-14, 4-7-
2014)
      3.   Grant or deny any variations from the zoning ordinance not within
the jurisdiction of the city council and/or the planning and zoning board,
subject to the regulations of section
12-3-6, "Variations", of this title;
      4.   Receive, file and review applications for development review, and
then forward the completed application to the planning and zoning board, along
with his recommendation; (Ord. Z-11-14, 4-7-2014; amd. Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
      5.   Maintain permanent and current records of the zoning ordinance,
including, but not limited to, all maps, amendments, variations, conditional
uses, planned unit developments, administrative interpretations, appeals and
applications thereof;
      6.   Serve as a public information source relative to all matters arising
out of this zoning ordinance;
      7.   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures and uses of land to
determine compliance with the terms of this zoning ordinance, subject to the
regulations of chapter 4, "Enforcement And Penalties", of this title;
      8.   Enforce the provision of this title pursuant to chapter 4,
"Enforcement And Penalties", of this title; and
      9.   Appoint three (3) member staff design review committee and conduct
building design review process in accordance with section
12-3-11, "Building Design Review", of this title. (Ord. Z-11-14, 4-7-2014)
12-2-6: DECISION MAKING DIAGRAM:
This diagram is intended for use as a guide only. It shall be necessary to
consult the text of the zoning ordinance for specific procedures and
regulations pertaining to the decision making process and responsibilities, and
for the method of filing and perfecting appeals of decisions made pursuant to
this title. In order to validly appeal a decision made pursuant to this title,
the party bringing the appeal must comply with the applicable terms and
conditions. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
FIGURE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d78c7c9594b077eb00c7309e1fa31ba5392692c0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2647.png]
 
(Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015; amd. Ord. Z-5-23, 2-21-2023)
CHAPTER 3
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCEDURES
SECTION:
12-3-1: Applications And Hearings
12-3-2: Site Plan Review
12-3-3: Zoning Certificates
12-3-4: Conditional Uses
12-3-5: Planned Unit Developments
12-3-5-1: Mixed Use Developments
12-3-6: Variations
12-3-7: Amendments
12-3-8: Administrative Interpretations
12-3-9: Appeals
12-3-10: Recovery Of City Costs And Fees
12-3-11: Building Design Review
12-3-12: Zoning Verification Letters
12-3-1: APPLICATIONS AND HEARINGS:
   A.   Applications: All applications for development review, which shall
include site plan review, zoning certificates, conditional use permits, planned
unit developments, variations, amendments to the zoning ordinance or map,
administrative interpretations, and appeals from administrative determinations,
shall be filed in conformance with the regulations set forth below:
      1.   Place Of Filing: Applications shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator or with such other City body or official as the Zoning
Administrator may designate.
      2.   Form, Number, And Scale: Applications shall be on forms provided by
the Zoning Administrator and shall be filed in such number and manner as the
Zoning Administrator may designate. All plans filed as part of any application
shall be at a scale sufficient to permit a clear and precise understanding of
its contents and of the proposal being made and shall be folded to a size of
eight and one-half inches by eleven inches (81/2"x11").
      3.   Minimum Requirements: Every application submitted pursuant to this
title shall contain such minimum data and information as listed in chapter 14,
"Minimum Submission Requirements", of this title.
      4.   Disclosure Of Trust Beneficiaries: Whenever the owner or applicant
is a trustee, it shall be required that the application be accompanied by a
full disclosure in writing of the names and addresses of all beneficiaries
under said trust at the time of such application and within the twelve (12)
months immediately preceding the filing of the application. It shall be
required that any application be accompanied by a certified copy of the trust
agreement and a certificate of the trustee that the beneficiaries are as stated
by the owner or applicant.
      5.   Filing Deadlines:
         a.   An application requiring a public hearing will not be scheduled
for such hearing unless filed in a complete manner, at least thirty (30) days
and no more than ninety (90) days prior to the requested public hearing date.
An application so filed will be scheduled for the requested date, or the first
available date thereafter, on a first filed, first scheduled basis. All public
hearings to consider applications filed pursuant to this title shall, unless
otherwise provided by order of the relevant body, be scheduled at the same time
as the regular meetings of such body.
         b.   An application that does not require a public hearing also shall
be filed with the Zoning Administrator in a complete manner. An application so
filed will be processed by the Zoning Administrator on a first filed, first
processed basis.
         c.   Whenever supplemental data in connection with a previously filed
application is required by the City or offered by the applicant, it shall be
submitted at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date on which it is to be
considered or acted upon in connection with such application. The filing of
such data shall, in the discretion of the Zoning Administrator and of the body
hearing the application, be cause to delay a requested or scheduled hearing or
decision date.
      6.   Fees: Applications filed pursuant to the provisions of this title
shall be subject to an application and filing fee as established, from time to
time, by the City Council. The owner of the property subject to the application
and, if different, the applicant, shall be jointly and severally liable for the
payment of the fee. The failure to pay any such fee when due shall be grounds
for refusing to process an application and for denying or revoking any permit
or approval sought or issued with respect to the land or development to which
the unpaid fee or required deposit relates. All fees shall be made payable to
the City of Des Plaines. The application fee pays the cost of processing the
zoning relief requested and is nonrefundable.
a. Conditional use permits               $500.00
b. Planned unit developments             1,500.00
c. Variations:                            
  (1) Minor variations (Planning and    No fee; appeals of denials subject to
       Zoning)                           the fee for Appeals
  (2) Standard variations (Planning and 250.00
       Zoning Board)
  (3) Major variations (City Council)   350.00
d. Amendments (text or map)              500.00
e. Appeals                               250.00
 
      7.   Special Requests: In addition to the minimum data and information
required by subsection A3 of this section, every applicant shall submit such
other additional data, information, or documentation as the Zoning
Administrator or any body before which its application is pending may deem
necessary or appropriate to achieve a full and proper consideration and
disposition of the particular application.
      8.   Waiver Of Application Requirements: Notwithstanding any other
provision of this subsection A, the Zoning Administrator shall have the
authority to waive any requirement set forth in subsection A1, A2, or A3 of
this section when, in his judgment, such waiver is appropriate in light of the
nature and extent of the relief being sought or in light of special
circumstances making compliance with those provisions either unnecessary or
unduly burdensome; provided, however, that any board or commission before which
such application may come shall continue to have the right to request
additional information pursuant to subsection A7 of this section and to delay
processing of such application until such information is provided and available
in accordance with the deadlines established in subsection A5 of this section.
   B.   Successive Applications:
      1.   Second Applications Without New Grounds Barred: Whenever any
application filed pursuant to this title has been denied on its merits, a
second application seeking essentially the same relief, whether or not in the
same form or on the same theory, shall not be brought unless in the opinion of
the official, board, or commission before which it is brought there is
substantial new evidence available or a mistake of law or fact occurred that
significantly affected the prior denial.
      2.   New Grounds To Be Stated: Any such second application shall include
a detailed statement of the grounds justifying its consideration.
      3.   Summary Denial With Or Without Hearing: Any such second application
may be denied by the Zoning Administrator summarily, and without hearing, on a
finding that no grounds appear that warrant a new hearing. In any case where
such application is set for hearing, the applicant shall be required to
establish grounds warranting reconsideration of the merits of its application
prior to being allowed to offer any evidence on the merits. Unless such grounds
are established, the application may be summarily dismissed for such failure.
      4.   Exception: Whether or not new grounds are stated, any second
application filed more than one year after the denial of a prior application
shall be heard on the merits as though no prior application had been filed. The
applicant shall, however, be required to place in the record all evidence
available concerning changes of conditions or new facts that have developed
since the denial of the first application. In the absence of such evidence, it
shall be presumed that no new facts exist to support the new application that
did not exist at the time of the denial of the first application.
   C.   Notice:
      1.   Notice Of Public Hearing In Newspaper: For any development review
procedure that requires a public hearing, the City shall arrange for the
publication of a public notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the Des
Plaines jurisdictional area. The notice shall include the date, time and place
of such hearing or meeting, a description of the matter to be heard or
considered, the address or particular location of the subject property, and the
property index number(s) for subject property. If there is no available street
address or property index number for the subject property, then a legal
description of the subject property must be included. The notice shall run at
least one time, not more than thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen (15) days
prior to the public hearing.
      2.   Notice Of Public Hearing Through Posted Sign: In addition to the
newspaper notice provision required above, not more than thirty (30) days nor
less than fifteen (15) days prior to any public hearing on a development review
procedure the zoning administrator shall cause to be posted on the subject
property a notice sign stating that a hearing will be held and including the
date, time and place of such hearing or meeting, and a description of the
matter to be heard or considered.
      3.   Notice To Proximate Property Owners: For any public hearing
regarding a map amendment, conditional use, or major variation, notice by U.S.
mail shall be sent to owners of properties within the following distances
measured from the perimeter of the subject property:
         a.   Three hundred feet (300) feet for subject properties located
entirely within residential zoning districts
         b.   Five hundred (500) feet for all other properties, including
properties located only partially in a residential district.
   D.   Review And Hearing:
      1.   Staff Review: The zoning administrator shall refer every application
for which this title requires a public hearing to all appropriate city
commissions and departments. Each commission and department to which an
application is referred shall review such application and submit its comments
thereon to the zoning administrator for transmittal to the specific body
hearing the application. Such comments shall, whenever possible, be submitted
at least two (2) business days prior to the date set for the hearing and shall
be made available to any person on request prior to the hearing.
      2.   Public Hearing: All other matters pertaining to the conduct of
hearings shall be governed by the provisions of this title pertaining to, and
the rules promulgated by, the body or official conducting the hearing.
      3.   Examination And Copying Of Application And Other Documents: At any
time following the giving of notice as required in subsection C of this
section, and upon reasonable request, any person may examine the application
and, subject to the exceptions set forth in the freedom of information act, all
other documents on file pertaining to the application. In addition, any person
shall be entitled to copies of such application and documents upon reasonable
request and payment of a fee as established from time to time by the zoning
administrator to cover the cost of such copies. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998; amd.
Ord. Z-6-04, 1-19-2004; Ord. Z-14-15, 7-6-2015; Ord. Z-1-19, 1-7-2019; Ord. Z-
42-21, 8-16-2021; Ord. Z-5-22, 3-21-2022)
12-3-2: SITE PLAN REVIEW:
   A.   Purpose: Site plan review is required to promote orderly development
and redevelopment in the city and to ensure that such development or
redevelopment is done in a manner harmonious with surrounding properties and
consistent with the general welfare and the policies in the comprehensive plan.
This section provides standards by which to determine and control the physical
layout and/or use of a lot or parcel of land in order to achieve the following
purposes:
      1.   Compatibility of land uses, buildings, and structures;
      2.   Protection and enhancement of community property values;
      3.   Efficient use of land;
      4.   Minimization of traffic, safety, and overcrowding problems; and
      5.   Minimization of environmental problems.
   B.   Applicability And Authority: An application for any development review
procedure or an application for a building permit shall require site plan
review, except for zoning certificates for single-family detached dwellings or
two-family dwellings. Site plans shall be submitted with the development review
application and shall be reviewed as an integral part of that application by
the zoning administrator and by any other city body or official conducting the
development review procedure. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
   C.   Contents Of Site Plan: Site plans shall show all information requested
by the zoning administrator including, at a minimum, the information set forth
in chapter 14, "Minimum Submission Requirements", of this title. (Ord. Z-14-15,
7-6-2015)
   D.   Standards For Site Plan Review: In reviewing site plans, the zoning
administrator or other city body or official may evaluate the following
characteristics:
      1.   The arrangement of the structures on the site with respect to how
well it:
         a.   Allows for the effective use of the proposed development;
         b.   Allows for the efficient use of the land;
         c.   Is compatible with development on adjacent property; and
         d.   Considers off site utilities and services and minimizes potential
impacts on existing or planned municipal services, utilities, and
infrastructure.
      2.   The arrangement of open space and landscape improvements on the site
with respect to how well it:
         a.   Creates a desirable and functional environment for patrons,
pedestrians, and occupants;
         b.   Preserves unique natural resources where possible; and
         c.   Respects desirable natural resources on adjacent sites.
      3.   Circulation systems with respect to how well they:
         a.   Provide adequate and safe access to the site;
         b.   Minimize potentially dangerous traffic movements;
         c.   Separate pedestrian and auto circulation insofar as practical;
and
         d.   Minimize curb cuts.
      4.   Parking lots or garages with respect to how well they:
         a.   Are located, designed, and screened to minimize adverse visual
impacts on adjacent properties; and
         b.   Provide perimeter parking lot screening and internal landscaped
islands as required by chapter 10, "Landscaping And Screening", of this title.
      5.   Landscaping design with respect to how well it:
         a.   Creates a logical transition to adjoining lots and developments;
         b.   Screens incompatible uses;
         c.   Minimizes the visual impact of the development on adjacent sites
and roadways; and
         d.   Utilizes native plant materials selected to withstand the
microclimate of the city and individual site microclimates.
      6.   Site illumination with respect to how it has been designed, located
and installed so to minimize adverse impacts to adjacent properties; and
      7.   The relationship of the site plan to adopted land use policies and
the goals and objectives of the comprehensive plan. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
      8.   In addition to the foregoing, development review procedures within
those districts outlined in the city's "Business District Design Guidelines",
dated March 2005, and approved by the city council May 16, 2005, shall
constitute standards in performing site plan review. (Ord. Z-10-05, 6-6-2005)
   E.   Basis For Approval: Approval or denial of a previously completed site
plan application shall be based upon the principles set forth below:
      1.   Every use, development of land, and application of development
standards shall take place in compliance with the standards of this title.
      2.   Every use, development of land, and application of development
standards shall be considered on the basis of the suitability of the site for
the particular use or development intended.
      3.   Every use, development of land, and application of development
standards shall be considered on the basis of suitable and functional
development design, but it is not intended that such approval be interpreted to
require a particular style or type of architecture.
   F.   Action On Site Plans: The zoning administrator or other city body or
official shall make specific written findings directed to the standards of this
section. The application and the specific written findings shall then be
forwarded to the relevant board, commission, or official, as the case may be,
to be evaluated as part of the specific form of development review requested.
(Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-3-3: ZONING CERTIFICATES:
   A.   Scope: No permit pertaining to the use of land or buildings shall be
issued by any officer, department, or employee of the city unless the
application for such permit has been examined by the zoning administrator and
has affixed to it a zoning certificate stating that the proposed building or
structure complies with all the provisions of this title, or upon written order
from the planning and zoning board deciding an appeal, or from the city council
deciding a conditional use, variance, or planned unit development, as provided
by this title. Any permit or certificate of occupancy issued in conflict with
the provisions of this title shall be void. Zoning certificates also shall be
required for the following: (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998; amd. Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-
2015)
      1.   Changes of use;
      2.   Changes of occupancy (except for residential uses);
      3.   Establishment of a temporary use; subject to the regulations of
section
12-8-11, "Temporary Uses", of this title;
      4.   Establishment of a home occupation, subject to the regulations of
section
12-8-8, "Home Occupations", of this title;
      5.   Erection or alteration of a sign, subject to the regulations of
chapter 11, "Signs", of this title;
      6.   Establishment of a residential care home, subject to the regulations
of section
12-8-10, "Residential Care Homes", of this title; and (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
      7.   Child home care use. (Ord. Z-2-05, 2-7-2005)
   B.   Application: Applications for zoning certificates shall be filed in
accordance with the requirements of section
12-3-1, "Applications And Hearings", of this chapter.
   C.   Applications For Industrial Uses: An application for a zoning
certificate for an industrial use shall have affixed to it the certificate of
an architect or structural engineer licensed by the state of Illinois that the
building or structure and the proposed use thereof complies with the
environmental performance standards of chapter 12, "Environmental Performance
Standards", of this title. The zoning administrator shall, upon receipt of such
application, and provided all other relevant provisions of this title are met,
approve and authorize the issuance of a zoning certificate. The zoning
administrator may, however, take fifteen (15) days in which to study the
application, during which time he may consult with appropriate technical
consultants. If after the fifteen (15) day study period the zoning
administrator discovers that the building, structure or use thereof does not in
fact comply with chapter 12, "Environmental Performance Standards", of this
title, the architect or engineer shall be so notified in writing by the zoning
administrator. Failure of the architect or engineer to show compliance within
thirty (30) days of such notification shall be cause for revocation of the
zoning certificate.
   D.   Action By The Zoning Administrator: Upon receipt of a properly
completed application for a zoning certificate, the zoning administrator shall
conduct a site plan review subject to the regulations of section
12-3-2, "Site Plan Review", of this chapter.
   E.   Failure To Obtain A Zoning Certificate: Failure to obtain a zoning
certificate shall be deemed a violation of this title punishable under the
provisions of chapter 4, "Enforcement And Penalties", of this title.
   F.   Limitation On Zoning Certificates: Zoning certificates issued on the
basis of plans and applications approved by the zoning administrator authorize
only the use or arrangement set forth in such approved plans and applications
or amendments thereto, and no other use, arrangements, or construction. Any
use, arrangement, or construction contrary to that authorized shall be deemed a
violation of this title punishable under the provisions of chapter 4,
"Enforcement And Penalties", of this title.
   G.   Records Of Zoning Certificates: Every zoning certificate issued
pursuant to this section shall be kept on file by the zoning administrator and
shall be considered a public record. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-3-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
   A.   Purpose: The development and execution of this title is based upon the
division of the city into districts within any one of which the use of land and
buildings and the bulk and location of buildings or structures, as related to
the land, are essentially uniform. It is recognized, however, that there are
conditional uses which, because of their unique character, cannot be properly
classified in any particular district or districts without consideration, in
each case, of the impact of those uses upon neighboring lands and upon the
public need for the particular use of the particular location.
   B.   Authority: The city council may, in accordance with the procedures and
standards set forth in this section and other regulations applicable to the
district in which the subject property is located, approve by ordinance those
uses listed as conditional uses within each zoning district. The zoning
administrator may administratively extend an approved conditional use in
accordance with subsection H of this section.
   C.   Parties Entitled To Seek Conditional Use: An application for a
conditional use permit may be filed with the zoning administrator by the owner,
agent of the owner, or anyone having a contractual interest in the subject
property.
   D.   Procedure For Review And Decision:
      1.   Application: Applications for a conditional use permit shall be
filed in accordance with the requirements of section
12-3-1, "Applications And Hearings", of this chapter. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
      2.   Action By Zoning Administrator: Upon receipt of a properly completed
application for a conditional use permit, the zoning administrator shall
conduct a site plan review subject to the regulations of section
12-3-2, "Site Plan Review", of this chapter. The zoning administrator shall
forward his written report and recommendations to the planning and zoning board
for its review and recommendations.
      3.   Action By Planning And Zoning Board:
         a.   The planning and zoning board shall hold a public hearing on the
application in accordance with the requirements of section
12-3-1, "Applications And Hearings", of this chapter. Notice for the public
hearing shall be performed in the manner prescribed by subsection
12-3-1C, "Notice", of this chapter.
         b.   Within thirty (30) days of the close of the public hearing, the
planning and zoning board shall forward its recommendation of either approval,
approval with modifications, or disapproval in writing to the city council.
(Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998; amd. Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
      4.   Action By City Council:
         a.   The city council shall consider the application at its next
available scheduled public meeting, and shall schedule a hearing if, in the
opinion of the mayor, city manager or by written call by three (3) of the
aldermen, it appears necessary and shall either approve, approve with
modifications, or disapprove of the application. The failure of the city
council to act at such time, or such further time to which the applicant may
agree, shall be deemed to be a decision of disapproval. (Ord. Z-7-04, 1-19-
2004)
         b.   If the application is approved or approved with modifications,
the city council shall instruct the zoning administrator to issue a conditional
use permit, listing any specific conditions specified by the council or the
planning and zoning board. If the application is disapproved, the city council
shall instruct the zoning administrator to provide the applicant with written
notification of the council's decision.
   E.   Standards For Conditional Uses: The planning and zoning board and the
city council, in their review of conditional use permit applications, shall
review the particular facts and circumstances of each proposed conditional use
in terms of the following standards: (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998; amd. Ord. Z-29-
15, 10-5-2015)
      1.   The proposed conditional use is in fact a conditional use
established within the specific zoning district involved;
      2.   The proposed conditional use is in accordance with the objectives of
the city's comprehensive plan and this title;
      3.   The proposed conditional use is designed, constructed, operated, and
maintained so as to be harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the
existing or intended character of the general vicinity;
      4.   The proposed conditional use is not hazardous or disturbing to
existing neighboring uses;
      5.   The proposed conditional use is to be served adequately by essential
public facilities and services such as highways, streets, police and fire
protection, drainage structures, refuse disposal, water and sewer, and schools;
or the persons or agencies responsible for the establishment of the proposed
conditional use shall provide adequately any such services;
      6.   The proposed conditional use does not create excessive additional
requirements at public expense for public facilities and services and not be
detrimental to the economic welfare of the community;
      7.   The proposed conditional use does not involve uses, activities,
processes, materials, equipment and conditions of operation that will be
detrimental to any persons, property, or the general welfare by reason of
excessive production of traffic, noise, smoke, fumes, glare or odors;
      8.   The proposed conditional use provides vehicular access to the
property designed that does not create an interference with traffic on
surrounding public thoroughfares;
      9.   The proposed conditional use does not result in the destruction,
loss, or damage of a natural, scenic, or historic feature of major importance;
and
      10.   The proposed conditional use complies with all additional
regulations in this title specific to the conditional use requested. (Ord. Z-8-
98, 9-21-1998)
   F.   Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards: The planning and zoning board
may recommend and the city council may provide such conditions and restrictions
upon the construction, location and operation of a conditional use as may be
deemed necessary to promote the general objective of this title and to minimize
any injury to the value of property in the neighborhood. Such conditions shall
be expressly set forth in the ordinance granting the conditional use permit,
and shall be recorded by the city as a supplement to the deed for the property,
in the county recorder's office. Failure to maintain such conditions or
restrictions as may have been imposed shall constitute grounds for revocation
of such conditional use permit, pursuant to chapter 4, "Enforcement And
Penalties", of this title. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998; amd. Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-
2015)
   G.   No Presumption Of Approval: The listing of a conditional use within
each zoning district does not constitute an assurance or presumption that such
conditional use will be approved. Rather, each proposed conditional use shall
be evaluated on an individual basis, in relation to its compliance with the
standards and conditions set forth in this section and with the standards for
the district in which it is located, in order to determine whether approval of
the conditional use is appropriate at the particular location and in the
particular manner proposed.
   H.   Limitations On Conditional Uses:
      1.   No conditional use permit shall be valid for a period longer than
one year unless a building permit is issued and construction is actually begun
within that period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion. However,
the city zoning administrator may extend the one year period to a mutually
agreed upon time.
      2.   The approval of a proposed conditional use permit by the city
council shall be deemed to authorize only that particular use at that
particular location for which the conditional use was issued.
      3.   Except when otherwise provided for in this title, a conditional use
shall be deemed to relate to, and be for the benefit of, the use and lot in
question, rather than the owner or operator of such use or lot.
   I.   Effect Of Approval: The approval of a conditional use permit
application by the city council shall not authorize the development,
construction, reconstruction, alteration or moving of any building or
structure, but shall merely authorize the preparation, filing and processing of
applications for such permits or approvals as may be required by the
regulations of the city, including, but not limited to, a zoning certificate
and a building permit. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998; amd. Ord. Z-15-20, 6-1-2020)
12-3-5: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS:
   A.   Purpose: Planned unit developments are a specific type of conditional
use that may be permitted only when recommended by the planning and zoning
board and granted by the city council according to the standards and procedures
of this section. The purpose of the planned unit development option is to
permit:
      1.   A maximum choice in the types of environment available to the public
by allowing a development that would not be possible under the strict
application of the other sections of this title;
      2.   Permanent preservation of common open space and recreation areas and
facilities;
      3.   A pattern of development to preserve natural vegetation, topographic
and geologic features;
      4.   A creative approach to the use of land and related physical
facilities that results in better development and design and the construction
of aesthetic amenities;
      5.   An efficient use of the land resulting in more economic networks of
utilities, streets and other facilities; and
      6.   A land use which promotes the public health, safety, and general
welfare.
   B.   Prerequisites; Location, Ownership And Size:
      1.   Planned unit developments are authorized in each of the following
zoning districts of this title subject to the regulations of this section.
      2.   The site of a planned unit development must be under single
ownership and/or unified control.
      3.   The minimum size of a planned unit development shall be not less
than:
         a.   In the R-1, R-2, R-3, and R-4 zoning districts: Two (2) acres;
provided, however, that there is no minimum size for detached single- family
and attached townhouse developments consisting of multiple principal buildings
where the planned unit development is associated with a petition for
annexation.
         b.   In the C-1, C-2, C-3 and C-4 zoning districts: Two (2) acres;
         c.   In the C-5 zoning district: One acre;
         d.   In the C-7 zoning district: Ten (10) acres; and
         e.   In the M-1, M-2, M-3 and I-1 zoning districts: Two (2) acres.
   C.   Permitted Bulk Exceptions And Minimum Development Standards: To achieve
the intent of this section, the planning and zoning board may recommend and the
city council may authorize any exceptions to the applicable bulk regulations of
this title; provided however, the following minimum standards are met:
      1.   Necessity Of Bulk Exceptions: Any bulk exceptions authorized under
this provision shall be solely for the purpose of promoting a unified site
plan, and meeting the objective of this title and the comprehensive plan.
      2.   Perimeter Yards: The minimum front, side and rear yards on the
perimeter of the planned unit development shall be provided in accordance with
the underlying zoning district or districts, although exceptions may be
granted. Greater minimum yards and/or landscape buffers may be required to
foster aesthetically pleasing planned unit developments and to make planned
unit developments more compatible with adjacent uses, to minimize possible
adverse impacts and to provide privacy.
      3.   Compatibility: The uses permitted in a planned unit development must
be of a type and located to minimize detrimental influence upon surrounding
properties.
      4.   Parking Requirements: In no case shall the required parking be less
than 75% of the base parking requirement of the uses as required collectively.
      5.   Traffic: Adequate provision shall be made to provide safe ingress
and egress and designed to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets.
      6.   General Design: The planned unit development shall not be designed
as to be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals, comfort
or general welfare. The planned unit development shall be designed to offer
more architectural features, enhanced landscaping and extra open space.
   D.   Procedure For Review And Decision: A planned unit development shall be
granted as a specific type of conditional use in accordance with the procedures
and standards of this section, and that of section
12-3-4, "Conditional Uses", of this chapter. The review procedure shall include
the preparation and submission of both a preliminary plat and a final plat as
described below:
      1.   Preapplication Conference: Prior to filing of an application for a
planned unit development, the developer may request an informal meeting with
the zoning administrator to discuss the development of a planned unit
development. The preapplication conference is not mandatory and does not
require formal application fee, or filing of a planned unit development
application.
      2.   Preliminary Plat Review:
         a.   Application: Applications for a planned unit development
preliminary plat shall be filed in accordance with the requirements of section
12-3-1, "Applications And Hearings", of this chapter.
         b.   Action By Zoning Administrator: Upon receipt of a properly
completed application for a preliminary plat, the zoning administrator shall
conduct a site plan review subject to the regulations of section
12-3-2, "Site Plan Review", of this chapter. The written report and
recommendations of the zoning administrator shall be forwarded to the planning
and zoning board for its review and recommendations.
         c.   Action By Planning And Zoning Board:
            (1)    The planning and zoning board shall hold a public hearing on
the preliminary plat in accordance with the requirements of section
12-3-1, "Applications And Hearings", of this chapter. Notice for the public
hearing shall be performed in the manner prescribed by subsection
12-3-1C, "Notice", of this chapter.
            (2)    Within thirty (30) days of the close of the public hearing,
the planning and zoning board shall forward its recommendation of either
approval, approval with modifications, or disapproval in writing to the city
council.
         d.   Action By City Council:
            (1)    The city council shall consider the preliminary plat at its
next available scheduled public meeting and either approve, approve with
modifications, or disapprove of the preliminary plat by a duly adopted
ordinance. The failure of the city council to act at such time, or such further
time to which the applicant may agree, shall be deemed to be a decision of
disapproval.
            (2)    If the application is approved or approved with
modifications, the city council shall instruct the zoning administrator to
accept the preliminary plat, listing any specific conditions specified by the
council or by the planning and zoning board. If the application is disapproved,
the city council shall instruct the zoning administrator to provide the
applicant with written notification of the council's decision.
      3.   Approval Is Preliminary: Approval of a preliminary plat for a
planned unit development shall not constitute approval of the final plat.
Rather it shall be deemed an expression of approval of the layout submitted on
the preliminary plat as a guide to the preparation of the final plat, which
shall be submitted by the developer not later than 12 months (or such
additional time as may be authorized by resolution of the city council) after
approval of the preliminary plat. The final plat shall be approved as the final
land use and zoning plat if it conforms with the preliminary land use and
zoning plat.
      4.   Optional Joint Submission: The preliminary and final plat may be
filed and reviewed simultaneously, if all requirements hereof are met. No
building permit shall be issued for any structure until the approval of the
final plat.
      5.   Final Plat Review:
         a.   The final plat for the planned unit development shall conform
substantially to the approved preliminary plat. A major change shall be
considered changes which alter the concept or intent of the planned unit
development; including increases in density, increases in the height of
buildings, reductions of proposed open space, changes in the development
schedule, changes in road standards, or changes in the governing agreements,
provisions, or covenants. Minor changes shall be considered any change not
described as a major change.
         b.   If desired by the developer, the final plat may be submitted in
stages with each stage reflecting a portion of the approved preliminary plat
which is proposed to be recorded and developed; provided, however, that such
portion conforms to all requirements of these regulations.
         c.   The required procedure for approval of a final plat shall be as
set forth below:
            (1)    Application: Applications for a final plat shall be filed in
accordance with the requirements of section
12-3-1, "Applications And Hearings", of this chapter.
            (2)    Action By Zoning Administrator: Upon receipt of a properly
completed application for a final plat, the zoning administrator shall conduct
a site plan review subject to the regulations of section
12-3-2, "Site Plan Review", of this chapter. The purpose of this review shall
be to certify that the final plat is in conformity with these regulations and
in agreement with the approved preliminary plat. The zoning administrator shall
forward his written report and recommendations to the planning and zoning board
for its review and recommendations.
            (3)    Action By Planning And Zoning Board:
               (A)   The planning and zoning board shall hold a public hearing
on the final plat in accordance with the requirements of section
12-3-1, "Applications And Hearings", of this chapter. Notice for the public
hearing shall be performed in the manner prescribed by subsection
12-3-1C, "Notice", of this chapter.
               (B)   Within thirty (30) days of the close of the public
hearing, the planning and zoning board shall forward its recommendation of
either approval, approval with modifications, or disapproval in writing to the
city council.
            (4)    Action By City Council:
               (A)   The city council shall consider the application at its
next available scheduled public meeting, and shall schedule a hearing if, in
the opinion of the mayor, city manager or by written call by three (3) of the
aldermen, it appears necessary and either approve, approve with modifications,
by a duly adopted ordinance, or disapprove of the final plat. The failure of
the city council to act at such time, or such further time to which the
applicant may agree, shall be deemed to be a decision of disapproval.
               (B)   If the application is approved or approved with
modifications, the zoning administrator shall issue a conditional use permit
for the planned unit development, listing any specific conditions specified by
the council or by the planning and zoning board for approval. If the final plat
is disapproved, the city council shall instruct the zoning administrator to
notify the applicant in writing.
               (C)   The city council may, as a prerequisite of approval of the
conditional use permit and final plat, require the developer and/or owners of
the planned unit development to enter into a development agreement with the
city governing the construction, ownership, and maintenance of public and
private improvements, required performance security, construction schedules and
other conditions. The development agreement shall be recorded by the applicant
as a supplement to the deed for the planned unit development property, in the
county recorder's office.
      6.   Recording Of Final Plat: The ordinance authorizing construction of
the planned unit development shall be effective only upon recording of the
final plat and supporting data with the county recorder's office. No zoning
certificate or other permit, allowing construction of a building or other
development, shall take place until the required recording of the final plat.
All recording costs shall be paid by the applicant.
   E.   Findings: The planning and zoning board and the city council, in their
review of planned unit development applications, shall review the particular
facts and circumstances of each proposed planned unit development and recommend
or authorize approval, approval with modifications, or disapproval of the
planned unit development in terms of the following findings to the extent
applicable:
      1.   The extent to which the proposed plan is or is not consistent with
the stated purpose of the planned unit development regulations set forth in
subsection A of this section;
      2.   The extent to which the proposed plan meets the requirements and
standards of the planned unit development regulations;
      3.   The extent to which the proposed plan departs from the zoning and
subdivision regulations otherwise applicable to the subject property,
including, but not limited to, the density, dimension, area, bulk and use and
the reasons why such departures are or are not deemed to be in the public
interest;
      4.   The extent to which the physical design of the proposed plan does or
does not make adequate provision for public services, provide adequate control
over vehicular traffic, provide for and protect designated common open space,
and further the amenities of light and air, recreation and visual enjoyment;
      5.   The extent to which the relationship and compatibility of the
proposed plan is beneficial or adverse to adjacent properties and neighborhood;
      6.   The extent to which the proposed plan is not desirable to the
proposed plan to physical development, tax base and economic well being of the
entire community; and
      7.   The extent to which the proposed plan is not in conformity with the
recommendations of the comprehensive plan.
   F.   Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards: The planning and zoning board
may recommend and the city council may require such conditions and restrictions
upon the construction, location and operation of a planned unit development as
may be deemed necessary to promote the general objective of this title and to
minimize any injury to the value of property in the neighborhood. Such
conditions shall be expressly set forth in the ordinance granting the
conditional use permit for the planned unit development as well as the
development agreement, if determined to be appropriate by the director of
community and economic development, and shall be recorded by the applicant as a
supplement to the deed for the property, in the county recorder's office.
Failure to maintain such conditions or restrictions as may have been imposed
shall constitute grounds for revocation of such conditional use permit,
pursuant to chapter 4, "Enforcement And Penalties", of this title.
   G.   Changes In The Planned Unit Development After Approval: The planned
unit development shall be developed only according to the approved and recorded
final plat unless changed pursuant to the provisions of the minor change
provisions as set forth in subsection B of this section. Changes, which alter
the already approved site plan, will require a new plat for recording, after
approval by the planning and zoning board and the city council. The recorded
final plat, together with all recorded amendments, shall be binding on the
applicants, their successors, grantees and assigns and shall limit and control
the use of premises (including the internal use of buildings and structures)
and location of structures in the planned unit development project as set forth
therein.
      1.   "Major Changes": Changes which alter the concept or intent of the
planned unit development such as the following:
         a.   Any increase in density.
         b.   Any reduction in the dimension or number of off street parking
and/or loading spaces, except when the reduction provides additional mobility
impaired accessible parking or electric vehicle charging spaces, and the
facility, after the reduction, will fully comply with the parking requirements
set forth in Chapter 9: Off Street Parking and Loading Facilities.
         c.   Any change in location and types of nonresidential land uses.
         d.   Any reduction of an amount of common open space, landscaping, or
buffering.
         e.   Any changes in proportion of housing types.
         f.   Any changes in road standards.
         g.   Any changes in final governing agreements, provisions or
covenants.
         h.   Any significant change to exterior elevations of buildings which
alter rooflines, building materials, approved color schemes, height of
buildings, or result in a significant change in architectural style.
Said changes shall require the submission by the applicant of a new application
that shall be processed and approved in the same manner as required of an
original application.
      2.   "Minor Changes": Minor changes are modifications that are not
defined as major changes and do not alter the concept or intent of a planned
unit development. The director of community and economic development may
approve minor changes that meet the criteria set forth in this subsection
through an administrative adjustment process without the approval of the city
council. The director of community and economic development shall report the
proposed minor changes to the council in writing through the city manager.
      3.   Recording Of Changes: All changes to the final plat shall be
recorded with the county recorder's office as amendments to the final plat, or
reflected in the recording of a new corrected final plat.
   H.   Schedule: The city council shall consider revocation of the planned
unit development if construction falls more than 18 months behind the
construction schedule filed with the final plat. The developer shall be
notified at least ninety (90) days preceding any revocation proceeding. The
city council may, upon request, modify the recorded construction schedule of a
planned unit development. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998; amd. Ord. Z-7-04, 1-19-2004;
Ord. Z-27- 05, 11-21-2005; Ord. Z-8-13, 4-1-2013; Ord. Z-11-15, 5-18-2015; Ord.
Z-29-15, 10-5-2015; Ord. Z-22-16, 9-6-2016; Ord. Z-29-16, 12-5-2016; Ord. Z-30-
16, 12- 5-2016; Ord. Z-13-19, 6-3-2019; Ord. Z-15-20, 6-1-2020; Ord. Z-55-21,
12-6-2021; Ord. Z-23-23, 9-5-2023)
12-3-5-1: MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS:
   A.   Statement Of Purpose: The purpose and intent of these provisions is to
permit the construction of residential dwelling units on the same zoning lot as
commercial developments.
   B.   Objectives: While protecting the aesthetic character of the community,
proposed developments shall accomplish the following objectives:
      1.   Contribute to the economic viability of existing commercial areas;
and
      2.   Encourage the implementation of innovative housing options, by
providing alternatives to the typical detached single-family dwelling unit.
   C.   Special Uses:
      1.   Mixed use developments are allowed as a conditional use in the C-
3 general commercial zoning districts.
      2.   Commercial uses proposed for inclusion in a mixed use development
shall comply with the uses identified by zoning district in section
12-7-3, table 3, "Commercial Districts Use Matrix", of this title.
      3.   Residential uses proposed for inclusion in mixed use development
shall conform to the regulations as listed in this section.
   D.   Site Specifications:
      1.   Minimum Lot Area; Residential Development: Not less than one
thousand eight hundred fifteen (1,815) square feet per dwelling unit (24
dwelling units per acre).
      2.   Minimum Yards:
         a.   Front Yard: A front yard of five feet (5') is allowed, but if a
zero foot (0') setback is requested that does not pose potential traffic
conflicts and encourages pedestrian orientation, a variation may be permitted.
         b.   Side Yard: A side yard of zero feet (0') is allowed, but if a
side yard is provided, it shall not be less than five feet (5').
         c.   Rear Yard: A minimum rear yard of twenty five feet (25') or
twenty percent (20%) of lot depth whichever is less.
      3.   Maximum Height: Forty five feet (45').
   E.   Design Criteria:
      1.   Commercial activity shall be located at the street level with
residential dwelling units permitted above or behind the space.
      2.   Strict adherence to the design criteria outlined in the "Business
District Guidelines" shall be required.
   F.   Parking Requirements (Mixed Use Developments):
      1.   General Requirements: The parking requirements for mixed use
developments shall be determined on a case by case basis analyzing the parking
demand for each use and how sharing the parking spaces shall be used to ensure
that times of maximum usage will not overlap. The following evaluation criteria
shall apply:
         a.   Section
12-9-7, "Off Street Parking Requirements", of this title.
         b.   In no case shall the required parking be less than 75% of the
base parking requirement of the uses as required collectively.
         c.    Of the total spaces provided, at least two reserved spaces per
residential unit must be provided; provided, however, when the subject property
is within 2,500 feet of an operational or proposed passenger rail train station
or an operational rapid transit bus platform, the following off street parking
regulations shall apply.
 
Uses                                      Parking Requirements
Efficiency and one-bedroom dwelling units 1 space per dwelling unit
One-bedroom plus den and two-bedroom      1.5 spaces per dwelling unit
dwelling units
Dwelling units with three or more         2.25 spaces per dwelling unit
bedrooms
Two-family; and townhouses (single-family 2 spaces per dwelling unit plus one
attached)                                 common guest space for every four
                                          dwelling units
 
      d.   Availability of off site public parking within three hundred feet of
the proposed use shall be considered in determining the commercial parking
requirement. (Ord. Z-24-06, 8-7-2006; amd. Ord. Z-9-08, 5-5-2008; Ord. Z-13-19,
6-3-2019; Ord. Z-9-20, 3-16-2020)
12-3-6: VARIATIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The variation procedure is intended to provide a narrowly
circumscribed means by which relief may be granted from unforeseen applications
of this title that create practical difficulties or particular hardships. When
such difficulties or hardships are more appropriate for remedy, if at all,
pursuant to other provisions of this chapter, the variation procedure is
necessarily inappropriate.
   B.   Authority: In accordance with the procedures and standards set out in
this section, the city council, the planning and zoning board, and the zoning
administrator shall have the authority to grant variations from the provisions
of this title, but only in those specific instances enumerated in subsections E
through G of this section and then only in accordance with each of the
standards enumerated in subsection H of this section.
   C.   Parties Entitled To Seek Variations: An application for a variation may
be filed with the zoning administrator by the owner, agent of the owner, or
anyone having a contractual interest in the subject property.
   D.   Application: Applications for a variation shall be filed in accordance
with the requirements of section
12-3-1, "Applications And Hearings", of this chapter. The zoning administrator
shall notify the petitioner, the planning and zoning board, and the city
council as to the type of variation being requested (minor, standard, or major)
and whose authority the application falls under.
   E.   Minor Variations (Zoning Administrator):
      1.   Authorized Variations: Variations from the regulations of this title
may be granted by the zoning administrator only in the following instances, and
then only in accordance with the standards set forth in subsection H of this
section:
         a.   To vary any required front, side or rear yard setback provided,
however, the variation shall not exceed the yard required by the applicable
district regulations by more than thirty percent (30%).
         b.   To vary the height, type, and location of any fence provided,
however, that no barb wire or electrical fence shall be permitted within any
residential district.
         c.   Notwithstanding subsection E1a of this section, the replacement
or expansion of an existing detached garage located within a residential
district, or the expansion of an existing structure located within a
residential district, may be approved provided, the replacement or expansion
does not further encroach into the required side yard than what presently
existed prior to the replacement or expansion.
         d.   To vary the location of accessory structures for lots that are
"double frontage lots" or lots that are both "corner" and "double frontage
lots" (lots at the end of a block with 3 street frontages), where the
construction or installation of an accessory structure is in the area of the
lot between the principal structure and the street of secondary frontage, which
shall be a collector or arterial street, or shall be Jarvis Avenue or Birchwood
Avenue.
         e.   To vary the size, location, and number of parking or driveway
areas as established in subsections
12-9-6B3 and C of this title when a property improved with a residential
single-family detached dwelling cannot accommodate two off street parking
spaces within a garage, carport, on a surface driveway or a combination
thereof. For the purposes of this subsection E.1.e, a “parking space” is a
space measuring nine feet wide and 18 feet deep. No minor variation shall be
issued for requests that, if granted, would result in more than two parking
spaces on the property.
         f.   To vary the Building Design Standards for a detached single
family house pursuant to section
12-3-11-D.2.a.(2) Materials For All Building Elevations of this title.
         g.   To vary the open storage requirements in the M-2 District
pursuant to section
12-7-4.E.5.a. of this title.
         h.   To vary the setback of a driveway area located in a required yard
for a property located within the R-1 Single Family Residential and R-2 Two
Family Residential districts, or in any other district where a zoning lot is
improved with a lawfully established single-family detached dwelling.
         i.   To vary the required screening for mechanical equipment including
required height, landscaping, and materials pursuant to Section
12-10-11B.
      2.   Procedure For Review And Decision:
         a.   Upon receipt of a properly completed application for a minor
variation, the zoning administrator shall conduct a site plan review subject to
the requirements of section
12-3-2, “Site Plan Review”, of this chapter. The zoning administrator may also:
(i) hold a public hearing on the application in accordance with the
requirements of section
12-3-1, “Applications And Hearings”, of this chapter pursuant to notice as
prescribed by subsection
12-3- 1.C., “Notice”, of this chapter; or (ii) determine that, because of the
nature of the application, the application for minor variation should be
decided upon by the City Council in accordance with the procedures for a major
variation as set forth in subsection G below.
         b.   Within fifteen (15) days of the close of the hearing, or
completion of site plan review where no hearing was requested the zoning
administrator shall, by written findings either approve, approve with
modifications, or disapprove the application. The failure of the Zoning
Administrator to act in such fifteen (15) days, or such further time to which
the applicant may agree, shall be deemed to be a decision of disapproval.
         c.   If the application is approved or approved with modifications,
the Zoning Administrator shall issue a variation permit, listing any specific
conditions specified by the Administrator for approval. If the application is
disapproved, the Zoning Administrator shall provide the applicant with written
notification of his decision.
   F.   Standard Variations (Planning And Zoning Board):
      1.   Authorized Variations: Variations from the regulations of this title
may be granted by the Planning and Zoning Board in the following instances, and
then only in accordance with the standards set out in subsection H of this
section:
         a.   To vary any required front, side or rear yard setback more than
thirty percent (30%) of the yard required by the applicable district
regulations.
         b.   To permit the improvement of a lot for a use otherwise prohibited
solely because of the insufficient lot area, but in no event shall the area of
the lot be less than eighty percent (80%) of the required lot area.
         c.   To vary the applicable off street parking or loading requirements
up to but not more than thirty percent (30%) of the applicable regulations,
except for multi-family buildings in R-4, Central Core Residential and C-5,
Central Business Zoning Districts. All variation petitions for off street
parking requirements for multi-family dwellings in R-4, Central Core
Residential and C-5, Central Business Districts shall be approved by the City
Council.
         d.   To vary the lot frontage requirements set forth in the
residential districts up to but not more than thirty percent (30%) of the
applicable district requirement.
         e.   To vary the maximum lot requirements set forth in the residential
districts up to but not more than twenty percent (20%) of the applicable
district requirement.
         f.   To vary the dimension of any sign (height, length, width, or
area) up to but not more than ten percent (10%) of the corresponding dimensions
normally permitted by
chapter 11, "Signs", of this title.
      2.   Procedure For Review And Decision:
         a.   Action By Zoning Administrator: Upon receipt of a properly
completed application for a standard variation, the Zoning Administrator shall
conduct a site plan review subject to the requirements of section
12-3-2, "Site Plan Review", of this chapter. The Zoning Administrator shall
forward his written report and recommendations to the Planning and Zoning Board
for its review and decision.
         b.   Action By Planning And Zoning Board:
            (1)    The Planning and Zoning Board shall hold a public hearing on
the application in accordance with the requirements of section
12-3-1, "Applications And Hearings", of this chapter. Notice for the public
hearing shall be performed in the manner prescribed by subsection
12-3-1C, "Notice", of this chapter.
            (2)    Within thirty (30) days of the close of the public hearing,
the Planning and Zoning Board shall in writing either approve, approve with
modifications, or disapprove of the application. The failure of the Planning
and Zoning Board to act in such thirty (30) days, or such further time to which
the applicant may agree, shall be deemed to be a decision of disapproval.
            (3)    If the application is approved or approved with
modifications, the Planning and Zoning Board shall instruct the Zoning
Administrator to issue a variation permit, listing any specific conditions
specified by the board or by the Zoning Administrator. If the application is
disapproved, the board shall instruct the Zoning Administrator to provide the
applicant with written notification of the board's decision.
   G.   Major Variations (City Council):
      1.   Authorized Variations: For all variations not authorized to be
decided by the Zoning Administrator or the Planning and Zoning Board, or for
variations that the Zoning Administrator has determined should be decided upon
by the City Council rather than the Zoning Administrator, in accordance with
Section
12-3-6.E.2.a, the City Council may vary any other provision of this title, but
no such variations shall be made without a public hearing before the Planning
and Zoning Board; provided, however, that both principal and accessory use
variations are expressly prohibited.
      2.   Procedure For Review And Decision:
         a.   Action By Zoning Administrator: Upon receipt of a properly
completed application for a major variance, the zoning administrator shall
conduct a site plan review subject to the requirements of section
12-3-2, "Site Plan Review", of this chapter. The zoning administrator shall
forward his written report and recommendations to the planning and zoning board
for its review and recommendations.
         b.   Action By Planning And Zoning Board:
            (1)    The planning and zoning board shall hold a public hearing on
the application in accordance with the requirements of section
12-3-1, "Applications And Hearings", of this chapter. Notice for the public
hearing shall be performed in the manner prescribed by subsection
12-3-1C, "Notice", of this chapter.
            (2)    Within thirty (30) days of the close of the public hearing,
the planning and zoning board shall forward its recommendation of either
approval, approval with modifications, or disapproval in writing to the city
council.
         c.   Action By City Council:
            (1)    The city council shall consider the application at its next
available scheduled public meeting, and shall schedule a hearing if, in the
opinion of the mayor, city manager or by written call by three (3) of the
aldermen, it appears necessary and shall either approve, approve with
modifications, or disapprove of the application. The failure of the city
council to act at such time, or such further time to which the applicant may
agree, shall be deemed to be a decision of disapproval.
            (2)    If the application is approved or approved with
modifications, the zoning administrator shall issue a variation permit, listing
any specific conditions specified by the council or the planning and zoning
board. If the application is disapproved, the city council shall instruct the
zoning administrator to provide the applicant with written notification of the
council's decision.
   H.   Findings Of Fact For Variations: A variation from the terms of this
title shall not be granted unless the reviewing authority makes specific
written findings of fact directly based on the standards and conditions imposed
by this section and any conditions imposed by the reviewing authority, to the
extent each may be applicable.
      1.   Hardship: No variation shall be granted pursuant to this subsection
H unless the applicant shall establish that carrying out the strict letter of
the provisions of this title would create a particular hardship or a practical
difficulty.
      2.   Unique Physical Condition: The subject lot is exceptional as
compared to other lots subject to the same provision by reason of a unique
physical condition, including presence of an existing use, structure, or sign,
whether conforming or nonconforming; irregular or substandard shape or size;
exceptional topographical features; or other extraordinary physical conditions
peculiar to and inherent in the subject lot that amount to more than a mere
inconvenience to the owner and that relate to or arise out of the lot rather
than the personal situation of the current owner of the lot.
      3.   Not Self-Created: The aforesaid unique physical condition is not the
result of any action or inaction of the owner or its predecessors in title and
existed at the time of the enactment of the provisions from which a variance is
sought or was created by natural forces or was the result of governmental
action, other than the adoption of this title.
      4.   Denied Substantial Rights: The carrying out of the strict letter of
the provision from which a variance is sought would deprive the owner of the
subject lot of substantial rights commonly enjoyed by owners of other lots
subject to the same provision.
      5.   Not Merely Special Privilege: The alleged hardship or difficulty is
neither merely the inability of the owner or occupant to enjoy some special
privilege or additional right not available to owners or occupants of other
lots subject to the same provision, nor merely the inability of the owner to
make more money from the use of the subject lot.
      6.   Title And Plan Purposes: The variation would not result in a use or
development of the subject lot that would be not in harmony with the general
and specific purposes for which this title and the provision from which a
variation is sought were enacted or the general purpose and intent of the
comprehensive plan.
      7.   No Other Remedy: There is no means other than the requested
variation by which the alleged hardship or difficulty can be avoided or
remedied to a degree sufficient to permit a reasonable use of the subject lot.
      8.   Minimum Required: The requested variation is the minimum measure of
relief necessary to alleviate the alleged hardship or difficulty presented by
the strict application of this title.
   I.   Variation Less Than Requested: The reviewing authority may grant
variations less than or different from that requested when the record supports
the applicant's right to some relief but not to the entire relief requested.
   J.   Conditions On Variations: The reviewing authority may impose such
specific conditions and limitations concerning use, construction, character,
location, landscaping, screening, and other matters relating to the purposes
and objectives of this title upon any lot benefited by a variation as may be
necessary or appropriate to prevent or minimize adverse effects upon other
property and improvements in the vicinity of the subject lot or upon public
facilities and services. Such conditions shall be expressly set forth in the
ordinance or order granting the variation. Violation of any such condition or
limitation shall be a violation of this title and shall constitute grounds for
revocation of the variation.
   K.   Effect Of Grant Of Variation: The grant of a variation shall not
authorize the establishment or extension of any use nor the development,
construction, reconstruction, alteration, or moving of any building or
structure, but shall merely authorize the preparation, filing, and processing
of applications for any permits and approvals that may be required by this
title or other ordinances of the city.
   L.   Limitations On Variations:
      1.   Subject to an extension of time granted by the zoning administrator,
no variation from the provisions of this title shall be valid for a period
longer than twelve (12) months unless a building permit is issued and
construction is actually begun within that period and is thereafter diligently
pursued to completion or unless a certificate of occupancy is issued and a use
is commenced within that period.
      2.   A variation shall be deemed to authorize only the particular
construction or development for which it was issued and shall automatically
expire and cease to be of any force or effect if such construction or
development is beyond the scope so authorized.  (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998; amd.
Ord. Z-7-04, 1-19-2004; Ord. Z-8-14, 4-7-2014; Ord. Z-14-15, 7-6-2015; Ord. Z-
29-15, 10-5- 2015; Ord. Z-31-18, 10-15-2018; Ord. Z-18-19, 8-5-2019; Ord. Z-3-
20, 1-6-2020; Ord. Z-20-22, 8-1-2022; Ord. Z-5-23, 2-21-2023; Ord. Z-19-24, 9-
16-2024)
12-3-7: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide standards and
procedures for making amendments to the text of this title and the zoning map
that are of general significance or application. This amendment process is not
intended to relieve particular hardships nor to confer special privileges or
rights upon any person, but only to make adjustments necessary in light of
changed conditions or changes in public policy.
   B.   Authority: The text of this title and the zoning map may be amended
from time to time by the passage of an ordinance duly adopted by the city
council in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section. (Ord. Z-8-
98, 9-21-1998)
   C.   Parties Entitled To Initiate Amendments: Amendments may be proposed by
the planning and zoning board, or the city council as the legislative body of
the city of Des Plaines or by any resident or owner of property in the city of
Des Plaines. (Ord. Z-7-04, 1-19-2004; amd. Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
   D.   Procedure For Review And Decision: An application to amend the text of
the zoning ordinance or the zoning map shall be processed in accordance with
the procedures set forth below:
      1.   Application: Applications for an amendment shall be filed in
accordance with the requirements of section
12-3-1, "Applications And Hearings", of this chapter. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
      2.   Action By Zoning Administrator: Upon receipt of a properly completed
application for an amendment, the zoning administrator shall conduct a site
plan review subject to the requirements of section
12-3-2, "Site Plan Review", of this chapter. The zoning administrator shall
forward his written report and recommendations to the planning and zoning board
for its review and recommendations.
      3.   Action By Planning And Zoning Board:
         a.   The planning and zoning board shall hold a public hearing on the
application in accordance with the requirements of section
12-3-1, "Applications And Hearings", of this chapter. Notice for the public
hearing shall be performed in the manner prescribed by subsection
12-3-1C, "Notice", of this chapter.
         b.   Within thirty (30) days of the close of the public hearing, the
planning and zoning board shall forward its written recommendation of either
approval, approval with modification, or disapproval to the city council. (Ord.
Z-8-98, 9-21-1998; amd. Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
      4.   Action By City Council:
         a.   The city council shall consider the application at its next
available scheduled public meeting, and shall schedule a hearing if, in the
opinion of the mayor, city manager or by written call by three (3) of the
aldermen, it appears necessary and either approve, approve with modifications
by a duly adopted ordinance, or disapprove of the application. The failure of
the city council to act at such time, or such further time to which the
applicant may agree, shall be deemed to be a decision of disapproval. (Ord. Z-
7-04, 1-19-2004)
            (1)    In the event that a written protest against the proposed
amendment is filed with the city clerk and is signed and acknowledged by the
owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage immediately adjoining, or across
an alley therefrom, or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage
directly opposite the frontage to be changed, an amendment shall not be
approved or approved with modifications except by a favorable vote of two-
thirds (2/3) of all the aldermen elected. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
         b.   If the application is approved or approved with modifications,
the city council shall instruct the zoning administrator to amend the text of
this title or the zoning map, listing any specific conditions specified by the
council or by the planning and zoning board. If the application is disapproved,
the city council shall instruct the zoning administrator to provide the
applicant with written notification of the council's decision. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-
21-1998; amd. Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
         c.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, in cases of amendment of the text
of this title (as distinguished from amendments to the zoning classification
and zoning map of the city) the city council may institute such text amendment
changes by directing staff to prepare such textual changes without having to
bring said changes before the planning and zoning board. (Ord. Z-24-03, 7-21-
2003; amd. Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
   E.   Standards For Amendments: The determination to amend the text of this
title or the zoning map is a matter committed to the sound legislative
discretion of the city council and is not controlled by any one standard. In
making their determination, however, the city council should, in determining
whether to adopt or deny, or to adopt some modification of the planning and
zoning board's recommendation, consider, among other factors, the following:
(Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998; amd. Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
      1.   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the goals,
objectives, and policies of the comprehensive plan, as adopted and amended from
time to time by the city council;
      2.   Whether the proposed amendment is compatible with current conditions
and the overall character of existing development in the immediate vicinity of
the subject property;
      3.   Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate considering the
adequacy of public facilities and services available to this subject property;
      4.   Whether the proposed amendment will have an adverse effect on the
value of properties throughout the jurisdiction; and
      5.   Whether the proposed amendment reflects responsible standards for
development and growth. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-3-8: ADMINISTRATIVE INTERPRETATIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The interpretation authority established by this section is
intended to recognize that the provisions of this title, though detailed and
extensive, cannot, as a practical matter, address every specific situation to
which they may have to be applied. Many such situations can be readily
addressed by an interpretation of the specific provisions of this title in
light of the general and specific purposes for which those provisions have been
enacted. Because the interpretation authority established is an administrative
rather than a legislative authority, it is not intended to add to or change the
essential content of this title but is intended only to allow authoritative
application of that content to specific cases.
   B.   Authority: The zoning administrator, subject to the procedures,
standards, and limitations of this section may, by written order, render
interpretations of the provisions of this title including use interpretation
and of any rule or regulation issued pursuant to it.
   C.   Parties Entitled To Seek Interpretations: Applications for
interpretations may be filed by an owner, agent of the owner, or any person
having contractual interest in property that gives rise to the need for an
interpretation; provided that interpretations shall not be sought by any person
based solely on hypothetical circumstances or where the interpretation would
have no effect other than as an advisory opinion.
   D.   Procedure For Review And Decision:
      1.   Application: Applications for interpretations of this title shall be
filed in accordance with the requirements of section
12-3-1, "Applications And Hearings", of this chapter.
      2.   Action On Application: Within fifteen (15) working days following
the receipt of a properly completed application for an interpretation, the
zoning administrator shall inform the applicant in writing of his decision,
stating the specific precedent, reasons, and analysis upon which the
determination is based. The failure of the zoning administrator to act within
fifteen (15) working days, or such further time to which the applicant may
agree, shall be deemed to be a decision denying the application rendered on the
day following such fifteen (15) day period.
      3.   Records: A record of all applications for interpretations shall be
kept on file in the office of the zoning administrator. At least once a year,
the zoning administrator shall make public a listing of his decisions, by
address, regarding the applications for interpretation. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-
1998)
      4.   Appeals: Appeals from interpretations rendered by the zoning
administrator may be taken to the planning and zoning board pursuant to section
12-3-9, "Appeals", of this chapter.
   E.   Standards For Use Interpretations: The following standards shall govern
the zoning administrator, and the planning and zoning board on appeals from a
decision of the zoning administrator, in issuing use interpretations: (Ord. Z-
8-98, 9-21-1998; amd. Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
      1.   Any use defined in chapter 13, "Definitions", of this title shall be
interpreted as therein defined;
      2.   No use interpretation shall permit any use in any district unless
evidence shall be presented that demonstrates that it will comply with the
general district regulations established for that particular district;
      3.   No use interpretation shall permit any use in a district unless such
use is similar to other uses permitted in the district and is more similar to
those uses than to uses permitted in a more restrictive district;
      4.   If the proposed use is most similar to a use permitted only as a
conditional use in the district in which it is proposed to be located, then any
interpretation permitting such use shall be conditioned on the issuance of a
conditional use permit for such use pursuant to section
12-3-4, "Conditional Uses", of this chapter; and
      5.   No use interpretation shall permit the establishment of any use that
would be inconsistent with the statement of purpose of the district in
question.
   F.   Effect Of Favorable Use Interpretations: No use interpretation finding
a particular use to be permitted or allowed as a conditional use in a
particular district shall authorize the establishment of such use nor the
development, construction, reconstruction, alteration, or moving of any
building or structure, but shall merely authorize the preparation, filing, and
processing of applications for any permits and approvals that may be required
by this title and other ordinances of the city including, but not limited to, a
building permit, a certificate of occupancy, subdivision approval, and site
plan approval.
   G.   Limitations On Use Interpretations:
      1.   Subject to an extension of time granted by the zoning administrator,
no use interpretation shall be valid for a period longer than twelve (12)
months from the date of issue.
      2.   An interpretation finding a use to be permitted, or permitted as a
conditional use in a particular district, shall be deemed to authorize only the
particular use for which it was issued, and such permit shall not be deemed to
authorize any allegedly similar use for which a separate use interpretation has
not been issued. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-3-9: APPEALS:
   A.   Purpose: The appeal procedure is provided as a safeguard against
arbitrary, ill considered, or erroneous administrative decisions. It is
intended to avoid the need for legal action by establishing local procedures to
review and correct administrative errors. It is not, however, intended as a
means to subvert the clear purposes, meanings, or intent of this title, or the
rightful authority of the zoning administrator to enforce the requirements of
this title. To these ends, the reviewing body should give all proper deference
to the spirit and intent embodied in the language of this title and to the
reasonable interpretations of that language by those charged with the
administration of this title. (Ord. Z-24-05, 8-29-2005)
   B.   Authority: The planning and zoning board shall hear and decide appeals
from, and review orders, decisions, interpretations, or the failure to act, of
the zoning administrator acting pursuant to his authority and duties under this
title and to that end the planning and zoning board shall have the same powers
and be subject to the same standards and limitations as the zoning
administrator with respect to any order, decision, or interpretation being
appealed.
   C.   Parties Entitled To Appeal: An appeal may be taken to the planning and
zoning board by any person, firm or corporation, or by any officer, department,
board or bureau aggrieved by a decision of the zoning administrator. Such
appeal shall be taken within thirty (30) days after the alleged erroneous
order, decision or interpretation. (Ord. Z-24-05, 8-29-2005; amd. Ord. Z-29-15,
10-5-2015)
   D.   Procedure:
      1.   Application:
         a.   Applications for an appeal shall be filed in accordance with the
requirements of section
12-3-1, "Applications And Hearings", of this chapter. (Ord. Z-24-05, 8-29-2005)
         b.   An application for an appeal shall stay all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the zoning administrator
certifies to the planning and zoning board, after the notice of appeal has been
filed with him, that, by reason of facts stated in the application, a stay
would in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property, in which case
the proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which
may be granted by the planning and zoning board or by a court of record on
application, on notice to the zoning administrator and on due cause shown.
      2.   Action By Zoning Administrator: Upon receipt of a properly completed
application for an appeal, the zoning administrator shall state in writing the
order, decision or interpretation being appealed and his justification for such
order, decision, or interpretation. The statement and report of the zoning
administrator shall be forwarded to the planning and zoning board for its
review and decision. (Ord. Z-24-05, 8-29-2005; amd. Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
      3.   Action By Planning And Zoning Board:
         a.   The planning and zoning board shall hold a public hearing on the
application within thirty (30) days of the statement and report of the zoning
administrator in accordance with the requirements of section
12-3-1, "Applications And Hearings", of this chapter. Notice for the public
hearing shall be performed in the manner prescribed by subsection
12-3-1C, "Notice", of this chapter. The planning and zoning board and the
applicant may jointly agree to extend the time for a public hearing.
         b.   The planning and zoning board may affirm or may, reverse, wholly
or in part, or modify the order, decision or interpretation of the zoning
administrator. Such decision shall be made within thirty (30) days of the close
of the public hearing. The failure of the planning and zoning board to act in
such thirty (30) days, or such further time to which the applicant may agree,
shall be deemed to be a decision of denying the appeal.
         c.   Once the planning and zoning board has rendered its decision, the
board shall so inform the zoning administrator and instruct the zoning
administrator to provide the applicant written notification of the planning and
zoning board's decision. (Ord. Z-14-15, 7-6-2015; amd. Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
   E.   Right To Grant Variance In Deciding Appeals: In any case where the
application for appeal is accompanied by an application for a variation in
accordance with section
12-3-6, "Variations", of this chapter, the planning and zoning board shall hear
and decide such variation in compliance with the provisions of section
12-3-6, "Variations", of this chapter.
   F.   Conditions And Limitations On Rights Granted By Appeal: In any case
where this title imposes conditions and limitations upon any right, any such
right granted by the planning and zoning board on appeal shall be subject to
such conditions and limitations in the same manner and to the same extent as if
secured without the necessity of an appeal. (Ord. Z-24-05, 8-29-2005; amd. Ord.
Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
12-3-10: RECOVERY OF CITY COSTS AND FEES:
   A.   Established: Except for costs for variations to one- and two- family
dwellings, every petition filed and processed pursuant to this zoning code that
requires the city to incur costs or expenses associated with the review of the
petition shall be subject to the requirements set forth in this section. The
recovery of city costs and fees shall be in addition to any and all other
filing fees and other charges established by the city. For purposes of this
section, the word "petition" is deemed to include and refer to any and all
petitions and applications filed or processed pursuant to this zoning code.
   B.   Responsibility For Payment: The owner of the property that is the
subject of the petition and, if different, the petitioner, shall be jointly and
severally liable for the payment of recoverable costs and fees. By signing the
petition, the owner or petitioner shall be deemed to have agreed to pay, and to
have consented to payment of recoverable costs and fees, plus any costs of
collection, that have not been paid within thirty (30) days following the
mailing of a written demand for payment to the owner or petitioner at the
address set forth on the petition, including any additional recoverable costs
and fees assessed. Any lien filed pursuant to this subsection may be foreclosed
in the manner provided for mortgages or mechanics’ liens under Illinois law.
Further any failure to pay said cost and fees may constitute grounds for denial
of the relief petitioned for or of the project itself.
   C.   Recoverable Costs: The recoverable costs and fees incurred by the city
in processing a petition shall include, but not be limited to, the following
items:
      1.   Preparation, publication, and mailing of notices, including fees
charged by the local newspaper of record and costs incurred for postage and
printing, plus an administrative fee of one dollar ($1.00) for each mailed
notice;
      2.   Court reporter, including the cost of two (2) transcripts, or any
subsequent transcription of audio/video recordings;
      3.   Professional and technical consultant services and fees;
      4.   The fees and costs of a hearing officer, if any;
      5.   Cost of the city attorney and assistant city attorney measured by
their time expended and multiplied by their hourly rate of pay. The costs of
any city retained attorney or law firm, for consultation, meeting attendance,
document preparation, advice and review;
      6.   Copy reproduction;
      7.   Costs of document recordation by the county plus an additional fee
for recording of fifty dollars ($50.00);
      8.   Mailing costs, exclusive of required notices; and
      9.   Proof of ownership or title searches.
   D.   Payment Of Recoverable Costs And Recoverable Cost Escrow:
      1.   Charges Against Petitioner: From the date of filing any petition,
the city shall maintain an accurate record of the actual costs and fees of
processing the petition. The city may, from time to time, invoice for such
actual costs and fees. The city shall maintain an accurate record of all the
costs and fees and time expended.
      2.   Final Settlement: As soon as reasonably feasible following final
action on a petition, the city shall prepare a final invoice in connection with
the petition and of the actual cost and fees of processing the petition and
shall make a final charge of the actual costs and fees. A copy of the invoice
shall be provided to the owner and the petitioner for prompt payment thereof.
   E.   Condition Of All Petitions, Approvals And Permits: No petition filed
pursuant to this zoning code shall be considered complete unless and until all
costs and fees, filing fees and deposits due pursuant to this chapter have been
paid. Every approval granted and every permit issued pursuant to the zoning
code shall, whether or not expressly so conditioned, be deemed to be
conditioned upon payment of recoverable costs and fees as required by this
section.
   F.   Tolling Time Periods: Where this zoning code provides that the passage
of time without decision or action shall be deemed an approval or a
recommendation for approval, time periods shall be tolled during any period of
nonpayment of the recoverable costs and fees and deposits due pursuant to this
section.
   G.   Failure To Pay Recoverable Costs And Fees: The failure to pay in full
when due any recoverable cost, fee or deposit required under this section shall
be grounds for refusing to process a petition and for denying or revoking any
permit, or approval sought or issued with respect to the land or development to
which the unpaid recoverable cost, fee or deposit relates. (Ord. Z-39-06, 11-
20-2006; amd. Ord. Z-5-22, 3-21-2022)
12-3-11: BUILDING DESIGN REVIEW:
   A.   Purpose: Building design review is required to promote orderly and
harmonious growth of the city through high quality and compatible development,
to improve the design and appearance of existing buildings and properties, to
promote design compatibility among buildings and groups of buildings, and to
enhance the pedestrian oriented character and overall visual image of the city.
   B.   Staff Design Review Committee; Authority: The zoning administrator
shall appoint a staff design review committee consisting of three (3) staff
members of the department of community and economic development. The zoning
administrator and the staff design review committee shall be responsible for
conducting building design review in accordance with the provisions of this
section. The zoning administrator, upon recommendation of the staff design
review committee, may approve a design that varies from the strict
interpretation of the Building Design Review code through a minor variation in
order to avoid a building that would not be in harmony with the surrounding
neighborhood or would be difficult to achieve.
   C.   Applicability: Building design review plans that contain the
information set forth in section
12-14-9, "Minimum Submission Requirements For Building Design Review", of this
title, and any other information that may be requested by the Zoning
Administrator, shall be submitted to the Department of Community and Economic
Development with any development review application for the following
construction or alteration activities:
      1.   New construction of a principal structure;
      2.   Appearance altering renovations to the front or corner facades of a
principal structure; and
      3.   Additions to principal structures resulting in greater than a
fifteen percent (15%) change of gross floor area.
   D.   Standards For Building Design Review: All building design review plans
must meet the standards set forth in table 1 of this section. For the purposes
of this section and table 1 of this section, the following terms shall have the
following meanings:
      1.   Street Facade Transparency Requirements And Blank Wall Limitations:
         a.   Transparency:
            (1)    "Transparency" means the measurement of the percentage of a
building facade that has highly transparent, nonreflectance windows.
            (2)    "Minimum transparency" means the minimum amount of
transparency required on building facades with street frontage, measured per
building story or per facade, depending on the type of building.
         b.   Blank Wall Limitations: "Blank wall limitations" means a
restriction on the amount of windowless area permitted on a building facade
with street frontage. If blank wall limitations are listed as "required" within
table 1 of this section for a certain type of building, the following standards
shall be met:
            (1)    No rectangular area greater than thirty percent (30%) of a
story's facade, as measured from the floor of one story to the floor of the
next story, may be windowless; and
            (2)    No part of a story's facade may be windowless for a
horizontal distance greater than fifteen feet (15').
         c.   Entrance Locations: "Principal building entrance location" means
the building facade where the primary building entrance is or will be located.
      2.   Materials For All Building Elevations:
         a.   "Permitted elevation materials" means the primary building
materials that are permitted to be used in the construction or alteration of
all building exterior elevations of a certain type of building. Additional
residential construction requirements are as follows:
            (1)    Detached one-story, single-family residential shall be
constructed with one hundred percent (100%) face brick, natural stone, or
anchored or adhered masonry veneer on all exterior elevations.
            (2)    Detached multi-level or multi-story single-family
residential shall be constructed with one hundred percent (100%) face brick on
all ground floor and first floor street facing elevations and a minimum of
eight feet (8') from the top of foundation on all remaining elevations. Any
floors above the first floor shall follow the Building Design Standards Table
found in this chapter.
            (3) Attached single and multi-family residential shall be
constructed with one hundred percent (100%) face brick, natural stone, or
anchored or adhered masonry veneer on all street facing and side elevations
with at least two (2) complimentary colors or materials and a minimum of eight
feet (8') from the top of foundation on all remaining elevations.
         b. "Permitted upper story facade materials" means the additional
building materials that are permitted to be used in the construction or
alteration of upper story facades of a certain type of building.
         c. "Materials to avoid" means building materials that are discouraged
to be used in the construction or alteration of any building facade.
         d. "Prohibited facade materials" means building materials that are not
permitted to be used in the construction or alteration of any portion of any
building facade that is visible from any street.
TABLE 1
BUILDING DESIGN STANDARDS
 
            Principal              Upper                 Permitted     Permitted
Type Of     Building  Ground Story Story     Blank Wall  Ground Story  Upper      Prohibited
Building    Entrance  Windows      Windows   Limitations Materials     Story      Materials
            Location                                                   Materials
                                                                                  Simulated
                                                                                  masonry,
                                                                       Ground     stone,
                                                         Natural       story      face brick
                                                         stone, face   materials  more than
                                                         brick, and    plus:      35/8" in
Attached    Front,                                       anchored or   painted or height,
single-     corner,                                      adhered       stained    aluminum
family and  or corner 20%          20%       Required    masonry       wood,      or metal
multi-      side of                                      veneer (see   stucco,    siding,
family      building                                     subsection    vinyl      untreated
residential                                              D2a(3) of     siding,    wood, and
                                                         this section  and fiber  exterior
                                                         for further   cement     insulation
                                                         requirements) board      and
                                                                                  finishing
                                                                                  systems
                                                                                  (EIFS)
                      Minimum of                                       Ground
                      75%                                              story
                      transparency                                     materials
                      from 2'-9'                                       plus:
            Front,    above                              Face brick,   painted or Untreated
            corner,   sidewalk for                       stucco,       stained    wood,
Commercial  or corner retail,      20%       Required    metal, and    wood,      vinyl and
            side of   restaurant,                        concrete      exterior   aluminum
            building  or service                         masonry units insulation siding
                      uses;                                            and
                      minimum 50%                                      finishing
                      for other                                        systems
                      commercial                                       (EIFS)
                      uses
                                                                                  Simulated
                                                                                  masonry,
                                                                       Ground     stone,
                                                         Natural       story      face brick
                                                         stone, face   materials  more than
                                                         brick, and    plus:      35/8" in
            Front,                                       anchored or   painted or height,
Detached    corner,                                      adhered       stained    aluminum
single-     or corner 15%          15%       Required    masonry       wood,      or metal
family      side of                                      veneer (see   stucco,    siding,
residential building                                     subsection    vinyl      untreated
                                                         D2a(1) of     siding,    wood, and
                                                         this section  and fiber  exterior
                                                         for further   cement     insulation
                                                         requirements) board      and
                                                                                  finishing
                                                                                  systems
                                                                                  (EIFS)
                                                                       Ground
                                                                       story
                                                                       materials
                                                                       plus:
                      20% for      20% for               Face brick,   painted or Untreated
            Not       optional     optional  Not         stucco,       stained    wood,
Industrial  required  office       office    required    metal, and    wood,      vinyl and
                      component    component             concrete      exterior   aluminum
                                                         masonry units insulation siding
                                                                       and
                                                                       finishing
                                                                       systems
                                                                       (EIFS)
 
Notes:
1. Finishing systems (EIFS) may be used as a permitted ground story material as
an accent material. Such material shall only be used when installed at least
eight feet (8') above the finished first floor.
   F.   Action On Building Design Review: Upon receipt of a properly completed
development review application and building design review plans, the Zoning
Administrator and Staff Design Review Committee shall review the building
design review plans to determine compliance with the standards set forth in
table 1 and subsection D, "Standards For Building Design Review", of this
section. The Zoning Administrator and Staff Design Review Committee shall
forward a written report and recommendations to the applicant. If the zoning
administrator determines that the application does not comply with the
standards set forth in table 1 and subsection D, “Standards for Building Design
Review”, the applicant shall apply for a minor variation to authorize the
deviation(s) from the applicable standards. If the minor variation is denied,
the applicant may appeal the zoning administrator’s decision to the planning
and zoning board pursuant to section
12-3-9, “Appeals”, of this chapter. (Ord. Z-11-14, 4-7-2014; amd. Ord. Z-29-15,
10-5-2015; Ord. Z-35-18, 12-3-2018; Ord. Z-18- 19, 8-5-2019)
12-3-12: ZONING VERIFICATION LETTERS:
   A.   Scope: Any person may request a zoning verification letter from the
City to verify the current zoning classification, lot, setback, bulk, and use
regulations applicable to an existing property or structure within the
corporate limits of the City of Des Plaines.
   B.   Request For Zoning Verification Letter: A request for a zoning
verification letter must be made in writing on the form provided by the City
and submitted to the Community and Economic Development Director or his/her
authorized designee.
   C.   Fee: Any person who submits a request for a zoning verification letter
shall pay a fee of thirty five dollars ($35.00) to the City at the time the
request is submitted. (Ord. Z-1-19, 1-7-2019)
CHAPTER 4
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
12-4-1: Authority
12-4-2: Complaints Regarding Violations
12-4-3: Persons Liable For Violations
12-4-4: Right To Enter And Make Inspections
12-4-5: Procedures Upon Discovery Of Violations
12-4-6: Penalties And Remedies For Violations
12-4-7: Revocation Of Development Approvals
12-4-8: Appeals
12-4-9: Private Remedies Reserved
12-4-1: AUTHORITY:
The zoning administrator and his designee are hereby authorized to enforce this
title. For the purposes of this title, the term zoning administrator as used
here throughout shall be inclusive of his designee. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-4-2: COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS:
Whenever the zoning administrator receives a complaint alleging a violation of
this title, he shall investigate the complaint and shall take whatever action
is warranted. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-4-3: PERSONS LIABLE FOR VIOLATIONS:
The owner, tenant, or occupant of any building or land or part thereof, and any
architect, builder, contractor, agent, or other person who participates in,
assists, directs, creates, or maintains any situation that is contrary to the
requirements of this title, may be held responsible for the violation, suffer
the penalties, and be subject to the remedies herein provided. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-
21-1998)
12-4-4: RIGHT TO ENTER AND MAKE INSPECTIONS:
The zoning administrator is hereby authorized to make inspections of all
buildings, structures and premises located within the city to determine their
compliance with the provisions of this title. For the purpose of making such
inspection, the zoning administrator is hereby authorized to examine and survey
all buildings, structures and premises within the city. Such inspection shall
be made within the hours of six thirty o'clock (6:30) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:
00) P.M. on any days except Sunday subject to the following standards and
conditions:
   A.   Inspections: Such inspections may take place only if:
      1.   A complaint respecting said premises has been received by the zoning
administrator subject to section
12-4-2 of this chapter, and said complaint, in the opinion of said
administrator, provides reasonable grounds for belief that a violation exists;
or
      2.   If such inspection is undertaken as part of a regular inspection
program whereby certain areas of the city are being inspected in their entirety
by direction of the zoning administrator or the mayor.
   B.   Identification And Purpose: Any person making such inspection shall
furnish to the owner or occupant of the structure sought to be inspected,
sufficient identification and information to enable the owner or occupant to
determine that he is a representative of the city, and to determine the purpose
of the inspection.
   C.   Warrant: If the owner shall refuse to grant entry, the zoning
administrator or authorized representative may apply to any court of competent
jurisdiction for a warrant or other legal process for the purpose of securing
entry to any premises. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-4-5: PROCEDURES UPON DISCOVERY OF VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Notice: If the zoning administrator finds that any provision of this
title is being violated, he shall provide written notice to the persons
responsible for such violation, indicating the nature of the violation and
ordering the action necessary to correct it. The notice also shall state what
action is available to the zoning administrator and that an appeal of his
decision may be taken. Additional written notices may be provided at the zoning
administrator's discretion.
   B.   Enforcement Without Notice: Notwithstanding the foregoing, in cases
where delay would seriously threaten the effective enforcement of this title or
pose a danger to the public health, safety, or welfare, the zoning
administrator may seek enforcement without prior written notice by invoking any
penalties or remedies authorized in this chapter. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-4-6: PENALTIES AND REMEDIES FOR VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Violations And Fines: Violations of the provisions of this title or
failure to comply with any of its requirements, including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants of variances,
conditional uses, or planned developments, shall constitute a common nuisance.
Any person convicted of violating this title may either be fined not less than
seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). In addition, any person found in violation of this title shall be
expected to pay all costs and expenses related to adjudicating the offense.
   B.   Separate Offense: Each day that a violation is permitted to exist after
notification thereof shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-
1998)
12-4-7: REVOCATION OF DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS:
A zoning certificate, certificate of occupancy, or any other development
approval may be revoked by the zoning administrator in accordance with this
chapter if the recipient of the approval fails to develop or maintain the
property in accordance with the plans submitted, the requirements of this
title, or any additional requirements lawfully imposed in connection with the
issuance of the approval. Before a development approval can be revoked, the
zoning administrator shall undertake the following procedures:
   A.   Notice And Opportunity To Comment: The zoning administrator shall cause
a written notice of intent to revoke the development approval to be delivered
to the recipient of the approval at least ten (10) working days prior to the
date of the proposed revocation. The notice of intent to revoke the approval
shall inform the recipient of the alleged reasons for the revocation and of his
right to obtain a hearing on the allegations.
   B.   Hearing: If the development approval holder desires a hearing, the
zoning administrator shall set a date for a public hearing.
   C.   The Zoning Administrator's Decision: After the expiration of the ten
(10) working day notice and comment period, or within ten (10) working days of
the close of the public hearing, the zoning administrator shall, by written
order, render his decision on the proposed revocation. The written order shall
contain a statement of the specific reasons and findings of fact that support
his decision.
   D.   Notification Of Decision: The zoning administrator shall send his
decision within five (5) working days to the development approval holder and
any other person(s) previously requesting notification.
   E.   Evidence: The burden of presenting sufficient evidence to the zoning
administrator to conclude a development approval should be revoked for any of
the reasons set forth in this chapter shall be upon the party proposing the
revocation.
   F.   Result Of Revocation: No person may continue to make use of land or
buildings in the manner authorized by any development approval after the
approval has been revoked in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   G.   Records: A record of all written notices of the intent to revoke a
development approval shall be kept on file in the office of the zoning
administrator. At least once a year, the zoning administrator shall make public
a listing of his decisions, by address, regarding the written notices of the
intent to revoke a development approval. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-4-8: APPEALS:
A decision of the zoning administrator or his authorized representatives may be
appealed to the planning and zoning board subject to the regulations of section
12-3-9, "Appeals", of this title. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998; amd. Ord. Z-29-15,
10-5-2015)
12-4-9: PRIVATE REMEDIES RESERVED:
Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to prevent any person entitled to
relief in law or equity by reason of a violation of the provisions of this
title from bringing an appropriate action to secure relief. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-
1998)
CHAPTER 5
NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES
SECTION:
12-5-1: Purpose
12-5-2: Amortization
12-5-3: General Standards
12-5-4: Nonconforming Lots
12-5-5: Nonconforming Uses
12-5-6: Nonconforming Structures
12-5-7: Substitution Of Nonconforming Use
12-5-8: Nonconforming Signs
12-5-9: Mobile Home Exception
12-5-10: Elimination Of Nonconforming Uses
12-5-11: Exempted Buildings, Structures And Uses
12-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the regulation of nonconforming
uses, buildings and structures and to specify those circumstances and
conditions under which those nonconforming uses, buildings, and structures
which adversely affect the maintenance, development, use, and taxable value of
other property in the district in which they are located shall be gradually
eliminated, in accordance with the authority granted by the statutes of the
state of Illinois. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-5-2: AMORTIZATION:
This title establishes separate districts, each of which is an appropriate area
for the location of uses permitted in that district. It is necessary and
consistent with the establishment of those districts that those nonconforming
uses, buildings, and structures which substantially and adversely affect the
orderly development and taxable value of other property in that district not be
permitted to continue indefinitely. It is reasonable, and in accordance with
the authority delegated by the statutes of the state of Illinois, that a time
limit be placed upon the continuance of such existing nonconforming uses, based
upon the nature of the use, and in the case of nonconforming buildings and
structures, upon their character, age and the investment therein. In such
cases, the adoption of a reasonable amortization program permits the owner to
make his plans during a period when he is allowed to continue the nonconforming
use of his property, thereby minimizing his loss, while at the same time
assuring the public that the district in which the nonconformity exists will
eventually benefit from a substantial uniformity of permitted uses. (Ord. Z-8-
98, 9-21-1998)
12-5-3: GENERAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Avoidance Of Undue Hardship: Nothing in this title shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any building,
structure, or development on which construction was lawfully begun prior to the
effective date hereof and upon which construction has actually begun and has
been diligently pursued. Where demolition or removal of an existing building
has been substantially begun prior to rebuilding, such demolition or removal
shall be deemed to be construction.
   B.   Uses Permitted Under Conditional Use Provisions: Any use which is
permitted as a conditional use in a district under the terms of this title
shall be deemed a conforming use in such district without further action.
   C.   Restoration Of Structures To Safe Conditions: Nothing in this chapter
shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or restoring to a safe condition
of any building or structure part thereof declared to be unsafe by any official
charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of such official. If a
nonconforming structure or portion of a structure containing a nonconforming
use becomes physically unsafe or unlawful by reason of physical condition, it
shall not thereafter be restored, repaired, or rebuilt except in conformity
with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
   D.   Illegal Uses: Illegal uses existing at the time this title is enacted
shall not be validated by virtue of its enactment.
   E.   Burden Of Owner To Establish Legality Of Nonconformity: The burden of
establishing the legality of a nonconformity that is lawfully existing under
the provisions of this title is upon the property owner of the nonconformity
and not upon the city.
   F.   Variations Previously Granted For Uses And Structures: Any use or
structure that becomes nonconforming upon the effective date hereof and for
which a variation was previously granted, shall remain subject to any
conditions that were imposed pursuant to the grant of such variation.
   G.   Conditional Uses Previously Granted For Uses And Structures: Any use or
structure that becomes nonconforming upon the effective date hereof and for
which a conditional use permit was previously granted, shall remain subject to
any conditions that were imposed pursuant to the grant of such conditional use
permit. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-5-4: NONCONFORMING LOTS:
   A.   Single Nonconforming Lots Of Record: In any district in which single-
family dwellings are permitted, a single-family dwelling and customary
accessory buildings may be erected on any single lot of record after the
effective date hereof, notwithstanding provisions of this title governing
minimum lot width and minimum lot area; provided, however, that yard dimensions
and requirements other than those applying to area or width, or both, of the
lot shall conform to the regulations for the district in which such lot is
located. Such lot must be in separate ownership and not of continuous frontage
with other lots in the same ownership. (Ord. Z-6-15, 1-21-2015)
   B.   Lots In Combination: If two (2) or more lots or a combination of lots
with continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at the effective
date hereof, and if all or part of the lots with no buildings do not meet the
requirements established for lot width and area, the lands involved shall be
considered to be an undivided parcel for the purposes of this title; and no
portion of said parcel shall be used or sold in a manner which diminishes
compliance with lot width and area requirements established by this title, nor
shall any division of any parcel be made which creates a lot with width or area
below the requirements stated in this title.
   C.   Other Uses Of Legal Nonconforming Lots: In any commercial or
manufacturing zoning district, a legal nonconforming lot of record may be used
for any use permitted in the district. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-5-5: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Authority To Continue: Except as provided in subsection I of this
section, any lawfully existing nonconforming use may be continued so long as it
remains otherwise lawful, subject to the restrictions contained herein and in
section
12-5-3 of this chapter.
   B.   Ordinary Repair And Maintenance: Normal maintenance and incidental
repair or replacement, and installation or relocation of nonbearing walls,
nonbearing partitions, fixtures, wiring or plumbing, may be performed on any
structure devoted in whole or in part to a nonconforming use, provided,
however, that this subsection shall not be deemed to authorize any violation of
this section.
   C.   Structural Alteration: No structure devoted in whole or in part to a
nonconforming use shall be structurally altered unless the use thereof shall
thereafter conform to the use regulations of the zoning district in which it is
located.
   D.   Enlargement Of Structure: No structure devoted in whole or in part to a
nonconforming use shall be enlarged or added to in any manner, including the
interior addition of floor area, unless the use of such structure shall
thereafter conform to the use regulations of the district in which it is
located.
   E.   Extension Of Use: No nonconforming use shall be extended, expanded,
enlarged or increased in intensity except that a nonconforming use located in a
structure not designed or intended for any use permitted in the district in
which such structure is located may be extended throughout any part of such
structure lawfully existing on the effective date hereof provided, however,
that such extension shall not be allowed unless off street parking and loading
spaces required for such extension can be, and are, provided in accordance with
the requirements and restrictions of chapter 9, "Off Street Parking And Loading
Facilities", of this title.
   F.   Moving: No structure devoted in whole or in part to a nonconforming use
shall be moved in whole or in part, for any distance whatsoever, to any other
location on the same or any other lot, unless the entire structure and the use
thereof shall thereafter conform to all regulations of the zoning district in
which it is located after being so moved.
   G.   Change In Use: No nonconforming use shall be changed to any use other
than a use permitted in the zoning district in which the use is located, except
as provided for in section
12-5-7 of this chapter. When such a nonconforming use has been changed to a
permitted use, it shall not thereafter be changed back to any nonconforming
use. For purposes of this subsection, a use shall be deemed to have been so
changed when an existing nonconforming use shall have been terminated and a
permitted use shall have commenced and continued for a period of five (5) days.
Any change of use in violation of this subsection shall be deemed to be an
abandonment of the lawfully existing nonconforming use.
   H.   Damage Or Destruction: Any structure devoted in whole or in part to, or
accessory to, a nonconforming use that is damaged or destroyed, by any means,
to the extent of more than fifty percent (50%) of the cost of replacement of
such structure new shall not be restored unless the use of such structure shall
thereafter conform to the use regulations of the zoning district in which it is
located. In determining whether a parking or loading nonconformity has been
created or increased, the provisions of chapter 9, "Off Street Parking And
Loading Facilities", of this title shall control.
   I.   Termination By Discontinuance Or Abandonment:
      1.   When a nonconforming use is discontinued or abandoned for a period
of twelve (12) months, regardless of any intent to resume or not to abandon
such use, such use shall not thereafter be reestablished or resumed. Any
subsequent use or occupancy of such land or structure shall comply with the use
regulations of the zoning district in which such land or structure is located.
      2.   Any period of such discontinuance caused by government action,
strikes, material shortages, or acts of God, and without any contributing fault
by the nonconforming user, shall not be considered in calculating the length of
discontinuance for purposes of this subsection. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-5-6: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
   A.   Authority To Continue: Any nonconforming structure may be continued so
long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the restrictions contained
herein and in section
12-5-3 of this chapter.
   B.   Repair, Maintenance, Alterations, And Enlargement: Except as limited by
subsections C and D of this section, any nonconforming structure may be
repaired, maintained, altered, or enlarged provided, however, that no such
repair, maintenance, alteration, or enlargement shall either create any new
nonconformity or increase the degree of the existing nonconformity of all or
any part of such structure. For the purposes of this section, the vertical or
horizontal extension of a structure shall be considered to increase the degree
of an existing nonconformity related to a required yard or setback.
   C.   Moving: No nonconforming structure shall be moved in whole or in part,
for any distance whatsoever, to any other location on the same or any other lot
unless the entire structure shall thereafter conform to all of the regulations
of the zoning district in which it is located after being moved.
   D.   Damage Or Destruction:
      1.   Any nonconforming structure that is damaged or destroyed by any
means not within the control of the owner thereof, to any extent, may be
repaired or restored provided, however, that no such repair or restoration
shall be made that would create a new nonconformity or increase the degree of
any nonconformity existing prior to such damage or destruction. No such repair
or restoration, except when in conformity with the applicable district
regulations, shall be made unless a certificate of occupancy is obtained and
the restoration is actually begun within one year after the date of such damage
or destruction and is diligently pursued to completion. For the purposes of
this subsection, the vertical or horizontal extension of a structure shall be
considered to increase the degree of an existing nonconformity related to a
required yard or setback. In determining whether a parking or loading
nonconformity has been created or increased, the provisions of chapter 9, "Off
Street Parking And Loading Facilities", of this title shall control.
      2.   In no event shall any damage or destruction to such a structure by
means within the control of the owner be repaired or restored except in
accordance with subsection B of this section. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-5-7: SUBSTITUTION OF NONCONFORMING USE:
Notwithstanding the provision of section
12-5-6 of this chapter, where no structural alterations are made, any
nonconforming use of a structure may, upon appeal to the planning and zoning
board, be changed to another nonconforming use provided that the planning and
zoning board finds that the proposed use is equally appropriate or more
appropriate to the district than the existing nonconforming use. In permitting
such change, the planning and zoning board may require additional conditions
and safeguards. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998; amd. Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
12-5-8: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
The regulations pertaining to nonconforming signs shall be found in section
12-11-10, "Signs Not Conforming To This Chapter", of this title. (Ord. Z-8-98,
9-21-1998)
12-5-9: MOBILE HOME EXCEPTION:
For the purposes of this title, and notwithstanding the prohibitions set forth
in sections
12-5-5 and 12-5-6 of this chapter, the one to one replacement of a mobile home
with another mobile home shall be permitted. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-5-10: ELIMINATION OF NONCONFORMING USES:
Except when granted an extension by the city council, all nonconforming
commercial or industrial buildings located within any residential district
shall be removed or converted, and the building thereafter devoted to a use
permitted in the district, in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Date Of Construction                       Date Of Removal
Buildings erected prior to January 1, 1950 Removal on or before January 1, 2010
Buildings erected between January 1, 1950  Removal on or before January 1, 2020
and January 1, 1960
Buildings erected between January 1, 1960  Removal on or before January 1, 2030
and January 1, 1970
Buildings erected between January 1, 1970  Removal on or before January 1, 2040
and January 1, 1980
Buildings erected between January 1, 1980  Removal on or before January 1, 2050
and January 1, 1990
In the case of buildings erected since January 1, 1990, within 50 years from
the date of issuance of a building permit therefor but in all cases on or
before January 1, 2070
 
(Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-5-11: EXEMPTED BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES:
No building, structure, or use lawfully established on or before the effective
date hereof shall be subject to the amortization provisions of this chapter
solely for reason of being nonconforming with respect to the standards
prescribed in this title for any yards - front, side and rear; lot area per
dwelling unit; building height; and off street parking and loading spaces.
(Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
CHAPTER 6
DISTRICTS AND BOUNDARIES
SECTION:
12-6-1: Establishment Of Districts
12-6-2: Interpretation Of District Sequence
12-6-3: Annexed Land
12-6-4: Zoning Map
12-6-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS:
In order to classify, regulate and restrict the location of specified uses, and
to regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings for those uses, the city
of Des Plaines, Illinois, is hereby divided into the following districts:
   A.   Residence Districts:
      R-1 single-family residential district
      R-2 two-family residential district
      R-3 townhouse residential district
      R-4 central core residential district (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
   B.   Commercial Districts:
      C-1 neighborhood shopping district
      C-2 limited office commercial district
      C-3 general commercial district
      C-4 regional shopping district
      C-5 central business district
      C-6 casino district
      C-7 high density campus district (Ord. Z-11-15, 5-18-2015)
   C.   Manufacturing Districts:
      M-1 limited manufacturing district
      M-2 general manufacturing district
      M-3 special manufacturing district
   D.   Special Districts:
      I-1 institutional district
      MH-1 mobile home park district (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-6-2: INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT SEQUENCE:
   A.   General Rule: This title rejects as outdated and inappropriate the
concept of hierarchical and cumulative zoning districts and, except as noted
below, is based on the concept that each district should be designed to
accomplish a specific purpose, to encourage a particular type of development,
and to protect that development from being encroached upon by incompatible
types of development.
   B.   Special Rule: Within the foregoing philosophy, however, it is
recognized that, when different districts are juxtaposed, their differing
characters may require special treatment to ameliorate incompatibilities that
might otherwise result. For this limited purpose, this title recognizes the
concept of "more restrictive" and "less restrictive" districts, and the
districts established by this title shall be considered "more restrictive" or
"less restrictive" in accordance with the following rules:
      1.   The residential districts shall be deemed to be more restrictive
than any nonresidential district;
      2.   The R-1 single-family residential district shall be deemed to be the
most restrictive residential district and the R-4 central core residential
district shall be deemed to be the least restrictive residential district, and
the residential districts shall be deemed to become less restrictive as the
district number increases;
      3.   The MH-1 mobile home park district shall be deemed to be more
restrictive than any nonresidential district but less restrictive than any
residential district;
      4.   The commercial districts shall be deemed to become less restrictive
as the district number increases;
      5.   The I-1 institutional district shall be deemed to be more
restrictive than the manufacturing districts but less restrictive than any
residential district; and
      6.   The M-2 general manufacturing district shall be deemed to be less
restrictive than any other district. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-6-3: ANNEXED LAND:
All territory hereafter annexed to the city of Des Plaines shall, at the time
of annexation, be rezoned to the appropriate district classification described
herein. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-6-4: ZONING MAP:
   A.   Map Incorporated: The location and boundaries of the zoning districts
established by this title are as shown on a map entitled "Zoning Map Of The
City Of Des Plaines, Illinois", hereafter referred to as the zoning map, which
is by this reference incorporated as part of this title. All notations,
references, and other information shown on the zoning map, and all amendments
thereto, shall be as much a part of this title as if specifically set forth and
literally described herein.
   B.   Omitted Land: It is the intent of this title that the entire area of
the city, including all land and water areas, be included in the districts
established by this title. Any area lying within the city but not shown on the
zoning map as being included in a district shall be deemed to be, and is hereby
classified as being within the R-1 single-family residential district.
   C.   District Boundaries: In the event that any uncertainty exists with
respect to the intended boundaries of the various districts as shown on the
zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
      1.   The district boundaries are the centerlines of highways, streets,
alleys, waterways, railroads, and other rights of way unless otherwise
indicated. When the designation of a boundary line on the zoning map coincides
with the location of any such right of way, the centerline of such right of way
shall be construed to be the boundary of such district;
      2.   When a district boundary does not coincide with the location of the
centerline of any right of way but does coincide with a lot line, such lot line
shall be construed to be the boundary of such district; and
      3.   When a district boundary does not coincide with the location of the
centerline of any right of way or a lot line, the district boundary shall be
determined by the use of the scale shown on the zoning map.
   D.   Maintenance And Availability Of Official Zoning Map: The official copy
of the zoning map shall be maintained by the zoning administrator and shall be
available for public inspection during city business hours at the department of
community and economic development. Any amendment to zoning district boundaries
or any change in any other information shown on the zoning map made by
amendment to this title shall be indicated on the official copy of the zoning
map.
   E.   Availability Of Zoning Map: A revised, up to date copy of the official
zoning map, certified as to being inclusive of all amendments and drawn to a
convenient scale, shall be published from time to time and made available for
sale. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
CHAPTER 7
DISTRICTS
SECTION:
12-7-1: General District Regulations
12-7-2: Residential Districts Regulations
12-7-3: Commercial Districts Regulations
12-7-4: Manufacturing Districts Regulations
12-7-5: Special Districts Regulations
12-7-1: GENERAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Number Of Buildings On A Zoning Lot: Not more than one principal
building or structure shall be located on a zoning lot except in the following
cases:
      1.   Planned developments;
      2.   Regional shopping centers located in the C-4 Regional Shopping
District;
      3.   Commercial mobile radio and wireless telecommunications service
facilities;
      4.   Lots of more than four acres in size in any district provided that
there are at least two acres per principal building and the principal use is
one of the following:
         a.   Public or Private Elementary, Middle, and High Schools;
         b.   Parks, Community and Recreation Centers;
         c.   Residentially Zoned Assembly Uses; or
         d.   Colleges and Universities; and
      5.   Lots of five or more acres located in the M-1 Limited Manufacturing
District, and the M-2 General Manufacturing District, and M-3 Special
Manufacturing District; and
      6.   Lots in the C-2 Limited Office District and C-3 General Commercial
District that are at least one-half acre in area.
   B.   Continued Conformity With Bulk Regulations:
      1.   The maintenance of yards, minimum lot area, and other open space
legally required for a building shall be a continuing obligation of the
property owner and the owner of such building (if different from the property
owner), for as long as the building is in existence.
      2.   No legally required yards, minimum lot area, or other open space
allocated to any building shall, by virtue of change of ownership or for any
other reason, be used to satisfy yard, minimum lot area, or other open space
requirements for any other building. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
   C.   Permitted Obstruction In Required Yards: The following structures and
uses shall be permitted in the following required yards:
 Required Yards
 Front Side Rear Corner Side 1
                                                  Required Yards
                                                  Front Side Rear Corner Side 1
Accessory auto filling station canopies when
located in the C-3, C-4, M-1 and M-2 zoning       P     P    P    N/A
districts4
May be located no closer than 5 feet from front,
side and rear lot lines
Accessory structures and buildings including
detached garages; accessory sheds, tool rooms,
and similar buildings or structures:              NP    NP   P    NP
May be located no closer than 5 feet from side
and rear lot lines
ADA accessible improvements:
May be located no closer than 1 foot from all lot P     P    P    P
lines
Arbors
May not be less than 1 foot from side and rear
lines                                             P     P    P    P
Refer to Section
12-8-14 of this title for additional regulations
Awnings and canopies:
May project 18 inches or less, except for awnings P     P    P    P
identified in
chapter 11 of this title
Balconies:
May project 3 feet or less only
Allowed to project on all sides in the R-4 and C- NP    NP   P    P
5 District
In all instances, no balcony shall project over a
property line
Bay windows:
Only 1-story eaves may project into required      P     P    P    P
yards
May project 3 feet or less only
Chimneys:                                         NP    P    P    P
May project 18 inches or less only
Covered or open decks, porches, and landings:
May encroach no farther than 5 feet into the
required front yard
May encroach no farther than 12.5 feet into the
required rear yard
The maximum area of a deck, porch, or landing     P     P    P    P
that encroaches into the required front yard is
50 square feet
May encroach no farther than 3 feet into required
side and corner side yards
Eaves on encroaching covered decks, porches, or
landings may not extend an additional 2 feet
Driveways5                                        P     P    P    P
Eaves and gutters:                                P     P    P    P
May project 2 feet or less only
Fences:
Refer to section                                  P     P    P    P
12-8-2 of this title for specific fence
regulations
Flagpoles:
May be no taller than 20 feet in residential
districts                                         P     P    P    P
May be no taller than 40 feet in non-residential
districts
HVAC, generators, and similar building mechanical
equipment:                                        NP    P    P    NP
May be located no closer than 5 feet from side
and rear lot lines
Patios:
Must be separated from a driveway/ parking area
by a minimum of 3 feet
A patio may be connected to another hard surface  NP    P    P    NP
by a residential walkway that diverges from the
patio and the other hard surface.
May be located no closer than 5 feet from side
and rear lot lines
Pergolas:
May be located no closer than 5 feet from side    NP    P    P    NP
and rear lot lines
Recreational equipment2,3:
Basketball hoops shall not overhang into any
alley or public right-of-way                      NP    P    P    NP
May be located no closer than 5 feet from side
and rear lot lines
Residential walkways
Any portion of a residential walkway located
within a required side yard shall not exceed 4
feet in width; provided, however, that a
residential walkway located in the front, rear,
or corner-side yard is permitted to be up to 6
feet in width.                                    P     P    P    P
Walkways must diverge and be separate from
another hard surface, except for small,
immediately adjacent pads for refuse containers
or mechanical equipment.
May be located no closer than 1 foot from the
side lot lines
Seating walls as part of a patio or deck:
Total height for any seating wall shall not
exceed 4 feet from finished grade when located in
a front yard
May not encroach in the required front yard more  P     P    P    P
than 5 feet
May be located no closer than 3 feet from side
lot lines
May be located no closer than 5 feet from corner
side and rear lot lines
Solar Panels                                      NP    NP   P    NP
Freestanding solar panel installations shall not
exceed 15 feet in height
May be located no closer than 5 feet from side
and rear lot lines
Solar panels may be attached to the primary
structure and permitted accessory structure(s);
provided, however, no solar panel components may
exceed the maximum allowable building height to
which it is attached
Sports Courts including bocce ball courts, tennis
courts, basketball courts and any other           NP    P    P    NP
impervious court surface
May be located no closer than 5 feet from side
and rear lot lines
Steps:
4 feet or less above grade, which are necessary   P     P    P    P
for access to a permitted building or for access
to a zoning lot from a street or alley
Swimming pools:
May be located no closer than 5 feet from side    NP    NP   P    NP
and rear lot lines
Trellis
In the front and corner side yards, may not
exceed four feet in height or encroach more than
five feet                                         P     P    P    P
In the rear and interior side yards, may not
exceed six feet in height
Refer to Section
12-8-14 of this title for additional regulations
Window wells:
May be located no closer than 1 foot from any lot P     P    P    P
line
Yard features:
May not exceed 4 feet in height when located in
the required front yard
May not encroach in the required front yard more  P     P    P    P
than 5 feet
May be located no closer than 5 feet from side,
corner side and rear lot lines
 
Notes:
   1.   Corner side yard regulations shall only apply within the R-1, R-2, R-
3 and R-4 Districts.
   2.   There is no limit to the number of recreational equipment items allowed
on any lot. However, any recreational equipment that adds impervious surface
will count towards the maximum rear yard coverage for properties zoned R-1.
   3.   Accessory Auto Filling Station Canopies do not have to follow the bulk
regulations set forth in section 8-1.C. of this title; provided, however,
Accessory Auto Filling Station Canopies may not exceed 25 feet in height.
   4.   All driveways must comply with the applicable regulations in Section
12-9-6 .
   D.   General Cross Reference Guide For Additional Regulations:
      1.   Land Use Interpretation: All applications for a permitted or
conditional use which are not listed in the table of uses set forth in each
district classification shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator for a
use interpretation pursuant to the standards and procedures set forth in
section
12-3-8, "Administrative Interpretations", of this title.
      2.   Accessory And Temporary Uses: Accessory and temporary uses are
permitted in each district subject to the provisions of section
12-8-1, "Accessory Uses And Structures", of this title.
      3.   Parking And Loading: The parking and loading requirements applicable
in each district are set forth in chapter 9 of this title. However,
supplemental parking requirements are provided for the C-5 Central Business
District in subsection
12-7-3H6 of this chapter which shall supersede the requirements of
chapter 9 of this title for the uses listed.
      4.   Sign: Sign regulations applicable in each district are set forth in
chapter 11, "Signs", of this title.
      5.   Site Plan Review: No construction or development requiring site plan
review shall be permitted in the districts except upon site plan approval
pursuant to section
12-3-2, "Site Plan Review", of this title.
      6.   Performance Standards: Requirements relating to performance
standards in each district are set forth in
chapter 12, "Environmental Performance Standards", of this title.
      7.   Landscaping, Screening, And Fences: Requirements relating to
landscaping, screening, buffering, and fences in each district are set forth in
chapter 10, "Landscaping And Screening", of this title.
      8.   Nonconforming Lots: Requirements relating to nonconforming lots in
each district are set forth in chapter 5, "Nonconforming Uses And Structures",
of this title. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998; amd. Ord. Z-36-18, 12-3-2018; Ord. Z-
18-19, 8-5-2019; Ord. Z-15-20, 6-1-2020; Ord. Z-20-2022, 8-1-2022; Ord. Z-32-
22, 11-7-2022; Ord. Z-38-22, 12-29-2022; Ord. Z-6-23, 4-3-2023)
12-7-2: RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS REGULATIONS:
   A.   General Purpose Statement: The residential districts set forth herein
are established to perpetuate the existing high quality residential character
of the City by preserving established neighborhoods while encouraging new
residential development. Taken together, the residential districts blend to
provide a broad range of housing alternatives.
   B.   Permitted Uses Generally: The uses specified as permitted in table 1,
"Residential Districts Use Matrix", of this section, shall be considered
permitted as of right in the residential districts, subject to any limitations
therein or in this chapter, and the securing of a zoning certificate. The uses
shall also be required to comply with all other applicable requirements of this
title and the City Code.
   C.   Conditional Uses Generally: The uses specified as conditional uses in
table 1, "Residential Districts Use Matrix", of this section, may be allowed in
the residential districts, subject to any limitations therein or in this
chapter, and the securing of a conditional use permit pursuant to section
12-3-4, "Conditional Uses", of this title. The uses shall also be required to
comply with all other applicable requirements of this title and the City Code.
   D.   R-1 Single-Family Residential District:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of the R-1 Single-Family Residential District
is to provide for and preserve single-family residential environments at the
lowest density within the City.
      2.   Permitted Uses: The uses permitted in the R-1 Single-Family
Residential District are set forth in table 1, "Residential Districts Use
Matrix", of this section.
      3.   Conditional Uses: The uses allowed as conditional uses in the R-
1 Single-Family Residential District, pursuant to section
12-3-4, "Conditional Uses", of this title, are set forth in table 1,
"Residential Districts Use Matrix", of this section.
      4.   Bulk Regulations: The bulk regulations that apply to the R-1 single-
family residential district are listed within table 2, "Residential Districts
Bulk Matrix", of this section.
   E.   R-2 Two-Family Residential District:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of the R-2 two-family residential district is
to provide a residential environment for small lots and buildings.
      2.   Permitted Uses: The uses permitted in the R-2 two-family residential
district are set forth in table 1, "Residential Districts Use Matrix", of this
section.
      3.   Conditional Uses: The uses allowed as conditional uses in the R-
2 two-family residential district, pursuant to section
12-3-4, "Conditional Uses", of this title are set forth in table 1,
"Residential Districts Use Matrix", of this section.
      4.   Bulk Regulations: The bulk regulations that apply to the R-2 two-
family residential district are listed within table 2, "Residential Districts
Bulk Matrix", of this section.
   F.   R-3 Townhouse Residential District:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of the R-3 townhouse residential district is to
provide a residential environment for townhouses and multiple-family dwellings.
      2.   Permitted Uses: The uses permitted in the R-3 townhouse residential
district are set forth in table 1, "Residential Districts Use Matrix", of this
section.
      3.   Conditional Uses: The uses allowed as conditional uses in the R-
3 townhouse residential district, pursuant to section
12-3-4, "Conditional Uses", of this title, are set forth in table 1,
"Residential Districts Use Matrix", of this section.
      4.   Bulk Regulations: The bulk regulations that apply to the R-
3 townhouse residential district are listed within table 2, "Residential
Districts Bulk Matrix", of this section.
   G.   R-4 Central Core Residential District:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of the R-4 central core residential district is
to provide a location for high density multiple- family dwellings in and near
the downtown.
      2.   Permitted Uses: The uses permitted in the R-4 central core
residential district are set forth in table 1, "Residential Districts Use
Matrix", of this section.
      3.   Conditional Uses: The uses allowed as conditional uses in the R-
4 central core residential district, pursuant to section
12-3-4, "Conditional Uses", of this title, are set forth in table 1,
"Residential Districts Use Matrix", of this section.
      4.   Bulk Regulations: The bulk regulations that apply to the R-4 central
core residential district are listed within table 2, "Residential Districts
Bulk Matrix", of this section.
      5.   Dwelling Unit Standards: The minimum floor area for dwelling units
in the R-4 central core residential district shall be as follows:
 
Number Of Bedrooms                      Minimum Floor Area(Square Feet)
Efficiency dwelling units               550
1 bedroom unit                          650
2 bedroom unit                          800
3 bedroom unit                          1,150
Each additional bedroom over 3 bedrooms Additional 300
 
   H.   Horse Barn Overlay District:
      1.   General Purpose: The purpose of this subsection H is to establish
reasonable and uniform regulations, safeguards and controls for keeping and
maintaining horses within as an existing, nonconforming use within the city.
The horse barn overlay district shall be considered an overlay district and
applies only to property located in an underlying R-1 district. Except for the
supplemental regulations related to the keeping of horses described in this
subsection H, all other uses shall comply with the regulations applicable to
the underlying R-1 Zoning District.
      2.   Permitted Uses, Generally: The uses specified as permitted in the
Horse Barn Overlay District shall be considered permitted as of right on a
property in an R-1 District where there currently exists a legal, nonconforming
use allowing the keeping of horses. Stalls may be rented for noncommercial use.
Commercial uses associated with the keeping of horses shall not be allowed,
including, but not limited to, riding lessons, horse rentals, and horse shows.
      3.   Horse Barns, Permitted Uses:
         a.   Horse barns may be constructed, altered or enlarged on legal,
nonconforming residential lots of one-half (1/2) acre or more (21,780 square
feet).
         b.   The maximum area of coverage of the horse barn shall be one
thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet and have a separate outdoor corral
area of at least one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet.
         c.   The maximum height of the horse barn/stable shall be no higher
than twenty four feet (24').
         d.   Minimum setback shall be ten feet (10') from the side and rear
property lines; twenty feet (20') from any residential unit. No horse barns
shall be allowed in the front yard.
         e.   Each horse stall within a horse barn shall be a minimum of twelve
feet by twelve feet (12'x12') and house only one horse at a time.
         f.   Each horse barn shall be kept in a clean, sanitary condition, and
in compliance with all health, sanitation, nuisance, and animal control
ordinances of the City. (Ord. Z-11-09, 3-2-2009)
   I.   Residential Use Matrix:
TABLE 1
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS USE MATRIX
P = Permitted use
C = Conditional use permit required
Uses R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4
Uses                                               R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4
Accessory uses and structures                      P   P   P   P
Assisted living facilities                                 C   C
Bed and breakfast establishments                       C   P   P
Childcare centers                                              C
Congregate housing                                         C   C
Convents, monasteries, rectories and parish houses C   C   P   P
Dwellings, multiple-family                                 P   P
Dwellings, single-family detached                  P   C2  C2  C2
Dwellings, townhouse                                       P   P
Dwellings, two-family                                  P
Forest preserves                                   P   P   P   P
Home occupations                                   P   P   P   P
Libraries, public                                  P   P   P   P
Parks, inclusive of playgrounds                    P   P   P   P
Planned developments                               C   C   C   C
Residential care homes:
Large                                              C   C   P   P
Small                                              P   P   P   P
Residentially zoned assembly uses                  C1  C1  C   C
Schools, private - elementary and high school      P   P   P   P
Schools, public - elementary and high school       P   P   P   P
Transitional treatment facilities                              C
 
   Note:
      1.   On sites of 1 acre or more with frontage on a collector or arterial
street.
      2.   Only single-family detached dwellings that were lawfully constructed
prior to August 17, 2020 and are located in a zoning district other than R-
1 may, but are not required to, apply for a conditional use in order to bring
the use of the legally nonconforming property into conformance with the Zoning
Ordinance.
   J.   Residential Bulk Matrix:
TABLE 2
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS BULK MATRIX
Bulk Controls R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4
Bulk Controls    R-1           R-2             R-3             R-4
Maximum height   21/2 stories  21/2 stories to 45 ft.          80 ft.
                 to 35 ft.     35 ft.
Minimum front    25 ft.        25 ft.          25 ft.          12 ft.
yard
                                               Buildings 35    5 ft., plus 2
Minimum side                                   ft. and under:  ft. for every
yard             5 ft.         5 ft.           5 ft.           10 ft. over 40
                                               Over 35 ft.: 10 ft.
                                               ft.
                                                               Buildings 40
                                               Buildings 35    ft. and under:
                                               ft. and under:  25 ft. or 20%
                 25 ft. or 20% 25 ft. or 20%   25 ft. or 20%   of lot depth,
Minimum rear     of lot depth, of lot depth,   of lot depth,   whichever is
yard             whichever is  whichever is    whichever is    less
                 less          less            less            Buildings over
                                               Buildings over  40 ft.: 25 ft.,
                                               35 ft.: 30 ft.  plus 2 ft. for
                                                               every 10 ft.
                                                               over 40 ft.
Maximum rear     60%1          n/a             n/a             n/a
yard coverage
Minimum lot                                                  
width:
 Interior       55 ft.        45 ft.          45 ft.          50 ft.
 Corner         65 ft.        55 ft.          55 ft.          50 ft.
Minimum lot                                                  
area:
 Interior       6,875 sq. ft. 2,800 sq. ft.   2,800 sq. ft.   10,000 sq. ft.2
                               per DU          per DU
 Corner         8,125 sq. ft. 6,875 sq. ft.   2,800 sq. ft.   10,000 sq. ft.2
                                               per DU
Maximum building                                             
coverage:
 Interior       30%           30%             n/a             n/a
 Corner         35%           35%             n/a             n/a
Minimum corner   10 ft.3       10 ft.          10 ft.          10 ft.
side yard
 
   Notes:
      1.   To determine rear yard coverage for a detached single-family
residential property, the area of the rear yard shall be the horizontal
distance of the lot taken from the rear-most elevation of the principal
building multiplied by the distance from the rear-most elevation of the
principal structure to the rear lot line. For irregularly shaped lots, the area
of the rear yard shall start from the rear-most elevation of the principal
building and cover all areas of the property from this elevation to the rear
lot line(s) of the subject property. See
chapter 13 of this title, definition of "rear yard coverage" for improvements
that are calculated under this regulation.
      2.   The minimum lot area for a zoning lot in the “R-4 Central Core
Residential District” shall be either 10,000 square feet or shall be determined
by the total sum of the required minimum lot area of each dwelling unit on the
zoning lot in accordance with the following table, whichever is greater:
      3.   Where a lot is defined as a corner lot, the required front yard and
corner side yard shall be observed; provided, however, that the minimum corner
side yard may be reduced to allow for a buildable width of thirty feet (30')
for a single family detached dwelling unit in the R-1 district. In no instance
shall the minimum corner side yard setback be reduced to less than five feet
(5'). No accessory building or roofed structure shall encroach into the
required front yard and corner side yard setback; except where permitted
pursuant to section
7-1.C of this title, and provided, however, structures and buildings lawfully
established prior to June 17, 2019 that do not meet the front yard or corner
side yard setbacks shall be considered legal non-conforming and may remain and
be maintained pursuant to section
5-6 of this title.
 
Number Of Bedrooms       Minimum Lot Area(Square Feet)
Efficiency dwelling unit 600
1 bedroom                700
2 bedrooms               800
3 bedrooms               1,000
More than 3 bedrooms     1,500
 
(Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998; amd. Ord. Z-11-09, 3-2-2009; Ord. Z-7-3, 5-20-2013;
Ord. Z- 30-16, 12-5-2016; Ord. Z-10-18, 5-21-2018; Ord. Z-31-18, 10-15-2018;
Ord. Z-36-18, 12-3-2018; Ord. Z-15-19, 7-1-2019; Ord. Z-19-20, 9-8-2020)
12-7-3: COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS REGULATIONS:
   A.   General Purpose Statement: The commercial districts set forth herein,
when taken together, are intended to permit a broad range of commercial
development necessary to serve the citizens of Des Plaines and neighboring
areas.
   B.   Permitted Uses Generally: The uses specified as permitted in table 3,
"Commercial Districts Use Matrix", of this section, shall be considered
permitted as of right in the commercial districts, subject to any limitations
therein or in this chapter, and the securing of a zoning certificate. The uses
shall also be required to comply with all other applicable requirements of this
title and the city code.
   C.   Conditional Uses Generally: The uses specified as conditional uses in
table 3, "Commercial Districts Use Matrix", of this section, may be allowed in
the commercial districts, subject to any limitations therein or in this
chapter, and the securing of a conditional use permit pursuant to section
12-3-4, "Conditional Uses", of this title. The uses shall also be required to
comply with all other applicable requirements of this title and the city code.
   D.   C-1 Neighborhood Shopping District:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of the C-1 neighborhood shopping district is to
accommodate convenience businesses in locations close to residential
neighborhoods. No individual use in the C-1 neighborhood shopping district
shall exceed seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet in floor area.
      2.   Permitted Uses: The uses permitted in the C-1 commercial district
are set forth in table 3, "Commercial Districts Use Matrix", of this section.
      3.   Conditional Uses: The uses allowed as conditional uses in the C-
1 commercial district, pursuant to section
12-3-4, "Conditional Uses", of this title, are set forth in table 3,
"Commercial Districts Use Matrix", of this section.
      4.   Bulk Regulations: The bulk regulations that apply to the C-
1 neighborhood shopping district are listed within table 4, "Commercial
Districts Bulk Matrix", of this section.
      5.   Standards For Site Plan Review:
         a.   Front Yards: No required front yard shall be used for the
permanent sale or display of merchandise. The temporary seasonal sale or
display of merchandise shall not encroach into areas of required parking unless
permitted by the zoning administrator pursuant to section
12-8-11, "Temporary Uses", of this title.
         b.   Lights: If the premises abuts a residential district, lighting
fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary to avoid casting direct light upon
such abutting residential district.
         c.   Fencing: If the premises abuts a residential district or use, a
solid opaque view screen fence, eight feet (8') in height, shall be provided
upon the premises along each property line abutting such residential district
or use.
         d.   Pedestrian Access: Each premises shall provide a logical, safe,
and convenient system of pedestrian access to and from the site which is
separate and distinct from any parking area or roadway.
   E.   C-2 Limited Office Commercial District:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of the C-2 limited office commercial district
is to preserve existing office development and provide locations for the
development of new office locations.
      2.   Permitted Uses: The uses permitted in the C-2 limited office
commercial district are set forth in table 3, "Commercial Districts Use
Matrix", of this section.
      3.   Conditional Uses: The uses allowed as conditional uses in the C-
2 limited office commercial district, pursuant to section
12-3-4, "Conditional Uses", of this title, are set forth in table 3,
"Commercial Districts Use Matrix", of this section.
      4.   Bulk Regulations: The bulk regulations that apply to the C-2 limited
office commercial district are listed within table 4, "Commercial Districts
Bulk Matrix", of this section.
      5.   Standards For Site Plan Review:
         a.   Parking And Loading In Rear Yard Only: Off street parking and
loading spaces may be located in the rear yards in the C-2 limited office
commercial district. No off street parking or loading spaces shall be allowed
in any required front yards in said district.
         b.   Lights: If the premises abuts a residential district, lighting
fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary to avoid casting direct light upon
such abutting residential district.
         c.   Fencing: If the premises abuts a residential district or use, a
solid opaque view screen fence, eight feet (8') in height, shall be provided
upon the premises along each property line abutting such residential district
or use.
         d.   Mass Transit: Each premises shall provide for a logical, safe,
and convenient system of pedestrian access to and from existing or planned mass
transit facilities.
         e.   Special Height And Setback Overlay: In the C-2 limited office
commercial district, a special height overlay is in effect for Touhy Avenue
from Greco Avenue to Scott Avenue in which the maximum height shall be thirty
five feet (35'). In addition, a special setback overlay is also in effect for
Touhy Avenue from Greco Avenue to Scott Avenue, requiring front yard setbacks
to be sixty five feet (65'), rear yard setbacks to be fifty feet (50'),
interior side yard setbacks to be fifteen feet (15') or five percent (5%) of
the lot width whichever is greater, and corner lot side yard setbacks to be
sixty five feet (65').
   F.   C-3 General Commercial District:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of the C-3 general commercial district is to
accommodate a variety of businesses in locations to serve the community of Des
Plaines.
      2.   Permitted Uses: The uses permitted in the C-3 general commercial
district are set forth in table 3, "Commercial Districts Use Matrix", of this
section.
         a.   Residential Dwellings: There shall be allowed one dwelling on the
second floor of buildings in the C-3 general commercial zoning district located
from Oakton Street at the Minneapolis/St. Paul/Sault Ste. Marie Railroad
tracks, east to the city limits. In addition, further conditions are set forth
as follows:
            (1)    Only new or existing buildings located in a C-3 general
commercial district, and within one hundred feet (100') of an arterial street,
as defined by the comprehensive plan, are permitted to have an apartment, and
provided it is above the first floor.
            (2)    One unit per lot is permitted.
            (3)    Adding an apartment to an existing single-family residence
located in C-3 general commercial district is not permitted.
            (4)    Each premises containing a residential unit shall provide a
logical, safe, convenient system of pedestrian access to and from the site,
which is separate and distinct from any parking area.
      3.   Conditional Uses: The uses allowed as conditional uses in the C-
3 general commercial district, pursuant to section
12-3-4, "Conditional Uses", of this title, are set forth in table 3,
"Commercial Districts Use Matrix", of this section.
      4.   Bulk Regulations: The bulk regulations that apply to the C-3 general
commercial district are listed within table 4, "Commercial Districts Bulk
Matrix", of this section.
      5.   Standards For Site Plan Review:
         a.   Front Yards: No front yard shall be used for the permanent sale
or display of merchandise. The temporary seasonal sale or display of
merchandise shall not encroach into areas of required parking unless permitted
by the zoning administrator pursuant to section
12-8-11, “Temporary Uses”, of this title.
         b.   Lights: If the premises abuts a residential district, lighting
fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary to avoid casting direct light upon
such abutting residential district.
         c.   Fencing: If the premises abuts a residential district or use, a
solid opaque view screen fence, eight feet (8') in height, shall be provided
upon the premises along each property line abutting such residential district
or use.
         d.   Outdoor display and storage of products: For properties utilized
by a trade contractor use with an active business license and pursuant to a
conditional use permit, finished or prefabricated products related to such use
may be stored or displayed outdoors, subject to the following conditions and
restrictions:
            (1)   Products may not be stored or displayed outdoors within any
required yard.
            (2)   Products must be fully screened with an eight-foot tall,
solid, opaque fence.
            (3)   For the purposes of this Section
12-7-3.F, "finished or prefabricated products" means products ready for sale to
an end user. Raw or landscape materials, or materials utilized for the
manufacturing, processing or assembly of products, are not permitted to be
stored or displayed outdoors.
            (4)   Products, either cumulatively or individually, and including
the racks or structures used to display the products outdoors, may not exceed
eight feet in height.
            (5)   Products stored or displayed outdoors must be located on a
paved, dust-free hard surface; provided, however, products and associated
storage racks may not reduce, block, or otherwise interfere with parking lot
drive aisles and off- street parking spaces.
   G.   C-4 Regional Shopping District:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of the C-4 regional shopping district is to
accommodate shopping centers in a location to serve the general public. The
district is designed to permit, as of right, uses commonly associated and
concentrated within a commercial shopping center. The district is also designed
to accommodate outlot development through the conditional use permit process.
      2.   Permitted Uses: The uses permitted in the C-4 regional shopping
district are set forth in table 3, "Commercial Districts Use Matrix", of this
section.
      3.   Conditional Uses: The uses allowed as conditional uses in the C-
4 Regional Shopping District, pursuant to section
12-3-4, "Conditional Uses", of this title, are set forth in table 3,
"Commercial Districts Use Matrix", of this section. In addition, outlot
development on commercial shopping center sites shall require a conditional use
permit.
      4.   Bulk Regulations: The bulk regulations that apply to the C-
4 Regional Shopping District are listed within table 4, "Commercial Districts
Bulk Matrix", of this section.
      5.   Standards For Site Plan Review:
         a.   Front Yards: No front yard shall be used for the permanent sale
or display of merchandise. The temporary seasonal sale or display of
merchandise shall not encroach into areas of required parking unless permitted
by the Zoning Administrator pursuant to section
12-8-11, "Temporary Uses", of this title.
         b.   Lights: If the premises abut a residential district, lighting
fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary to avoid casting direct light upon
such abutting residential district.
   H.   C-5 Central Business District:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of the C-5 Central Business District is to
protect downtown Des Plaines by permitting only those uses appropriate to its
character, and regulating bulk standards accordingly.
      2.   Permitted Uses: The uses permitted in the C-5 Central Business
District are set forth in table 3, "Commercial Districts Use Matrix", of this
section.
      3.   Conditional Uses: The uses allowed as conditional uses in the C-
5 Central Business District, pursuant to section
12-3-4, "Conditional Uses", of this title, are set forth in table 3,
"Commercial Districts Use Matrix", of this section.
      4.   Bulk Regulations: The bulk regulations that apply to the C-5 Central
Business District are listed within table 4, "Commercial Districts Bulk
Matrix", of this section.
      5.   Standards For Site Plan Review:
         a.   Front Yards: No front yard shall be used for the permanent sale
or display of merchandise. The temporary seasonal sale or display of
merchandise shall not encroach into areas of required parking unless permitted
by the Zoning Administrator pursuant to section
12-8-11, "Temporary Uses", of this title.
         b.   Parking And Loading In Rear Yard Only: Off street parking and
loading spaces may be located in the rear yards in the C-5 District. No off
street parking or loading spaces shall be allowed in any required front yard of
the district.
         c.   Pedestrian Access: Each premises shall provide a logical, safe,
and convenient system of pedestrian access to and from the site which is
separate and distinct from any parking area or roadway.
         d.   Landscaping: Landscaping shall be provided in accordance with
chapter 10, "Landscaping And Screening", of this title, and shall be designed
and established to blend into and complement the existing streetscape.
         e.   Multiple-Family Dwelling Units: Multiple-family dwelling units
shall be permitted in the C-5 Central Business District only upon the following
conditions:
            (1)    Dwelling units shall not be permitted below the second floor
above ground level of any building.
            (2)    The minimum floor area per dwelling unit in the C-5 Central
Business District shall be determined by the number of bedrooms in the dwelling
unit and shall be in accordance with the following table:
 
Number Of Bedrooms       Minimum Floor Area (Square Feet)
Efficiency dwelling unit 535
1 bedroom unit           620
2 bedroom unit           780
 
      6.   Supplemental Parking Requirements: The following parking
requirements shall supersede the requirements of chapter 9 of this title for
the uses listed below. In recognition of Central Business District density
patterns, the first two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet of a use
within the C-5 Central Business District shall be exempt from off street
parking requirements.
Uses Parking Requirements
Uses                                     Parking Requirements
Medical and dental clinics and           1 space per 300 square feet of floor
laboratories                             area
Efficiency and one-bedroom dwelling      1 space per dwelling unit
units
One-bedroom plus den and two-bedroom     1.5 spaces per dwelling unit
dwelling units
Dwelling units with three or more        2.25 spaces per dwelling unit
bedrooms
Offices                                  1 space per 500 square feet of floor
                                         area
Retail goods and services establishments 1 space per 300 square feet of floor
                                         area
Specialty food stores                    1 space per 300 square feet of floor
                                         area
Taverns and lounges                      1 space per 100 square feet of floor
                                         area
 
   I.   C-6 Casino District:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of the C-6 Casino District is to encourage the
orderly development of a licensed casino and certain related uses in accordance
with an approved plan of development.
      2.   Permitted Uses: The uses permitted in the C-6 Casino District are by
development plan, requiring City Council approval, and shall include the
following:
         Casino
         Class A restaurants, taverns and lounges
         Hotels
         Offices that are used solely for casino purposes
         Specialty food stores
      3.   Conditional Uses: The uses allowed as conditional uses in the C-
6 Casino District, pursuant to section
12-3-4, "Conditional Uses", of this title, are set forth in table 3,
"Commercial Districts Use Matrix", of this section.
      4.   Standards For Development:
         a.   Sign Plan: C-6 Casino District developments may establish a
localized alternative sign plan under section
12-11-8 of this title subject to review and approval by the City Council, which
plan will be in effect and not subject to revocation so long as a casino is
operating in the C-6 Casino District.
         b.   Bulk Regulations: The bulk regulations that apply to the C-
6 Casino District are listed within table 4, "Commercial Districts Bulk
Matrix", of this section.
         c.   Parking: Parking for casino use shall be required at one space
per gaming position. Accessory parking structures may exceed the height of the
gaming facility. Parking requirements for other uses shall be calculated per
chapter 9 of this title.
   J.   C-7 High Density Campus District:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of the C-7 High Density Campus District is to
allow for the development of large, dense, and vertically oriented complexes
that incorporate both commercial and residential uses. Intended to be located
proximate to arterial roads and State tollways, properties zoned in this
district are appropriate as destination sites for high traffic office uses
(e.g., corporate campuses) and public entertainment. All properties located in
the C-7 High Density Campus District must be developed in accordance with the
City's planned unit development procedures to ensure cohesive and integrated
site plans, architecture, and public improvements.
      2.   Permitted Uses: The uses permitted in the C-7 High Density Campus
District are set forth in table 3, "Commercial Districts Use Matrix", of this
section. Provided, however, that all properties zoned in this district must be
developed as planned unit developments in accordance with section
12-3-5 of this title and will be required to obtain a conditional use permit to
operate as such.
      3.   Conditional Uses: The uses allowed as conditional uses in the C-
7 High Density Campus District, pursuant to section
12-3-4, "Conditional Uses", of this title, are set forth in table 3,
"Commercial Districts Use Matrix", of this section.
      4.   Transitional Uses: In the event that a previously developed zoning
lot is reclassified into the C-7 High Density Campus District but is not
immediately substantially reconstructed or redeveloped, the zoning lot shall
continue to be governed by the use standards, bulk regulations, and other
requirements of its prior zoning district classification. Upon the construction
of a new principal structure on the zoning lot, all regulations of the C-7 High
Density Campus District shall apply to the zoning lot.
      5.   Bulk Regulations: The bulk regulations that apply to the C-7 High
Density Campus District are listed within table 4, "Commercial Districts Bulk
Matrix", of this section.
      6.   Standards For Development:
         a.   Eligible Parcels: No parcel or parcels of property may be
classified in the C-7 High Density Campus District unless: 1) they consist of a
contiguous area of more than ten (10) acres (including private rights-of-way
and stormwater retention areas), and 2) more than one-half (1/2) of the tract
area is located within two thousand feet (2,000') of a tollway operated by and
under the jurisdiction of the Illinois toll highway authority. The ordinance
classifying a tract into the C-7 High Density Campus District must include a
legal description of the tract and findings that the tract satisfies the
eligibility standards in this subsection J6.
         b.   Supplemental Parking Requirements: The following parking
requirements shall supersede the requirements of chapter 9 of this title.
Parking and loading requirements shall be determined as part of final plat
review for the planned unit development on a case by case basis analyzing the
parking demand for each proposed use. The overall requirements for parking may
be satisfied by shared parking located on multiple lots provided that maximum
usage times will not overlap. The following evaluation criteria shall apply:
            (1)    Section
12-9-7, "Off Street Parking Requirements", of this title.
            (2)    In no case shall the required parking be less than seventy
five percent (75%) of the base parking requirement of the uses conducted on a
single zoning lot as required collectively, or the base parking requirement of
the most parking intensive use on the zoning lot, whichever is greater.
         c.   Block Size: The length and width of a block located in the C-
7 High Density Campus District will not be subject to the restrictions set
forth in subsection
13-2-5P of the City Code.
         d.   Access: All vehicular access to any planned unit development in
the C-7 High Density Campus District must be provided from a public street with
a right-of-way no less than sixty six feet (66') in width or two (2) dedicated
lanes of traffic in each direction. The perimeter of such planned unit
development shall be enclosed by fence, except at designated access points.
         e.   Frontage: Each zoning lot in the C-7 High Density Campus District
must have frontage either on an arterial street or on a private circulation
drive that connects to an arterial street. If frontage is provided on a private
circulation drive, then easements and protective covenants assuring such
circulation shall be included on the final plat of subdivision for the planned
unit development. This subsection shall supersede subsection
13-2-5V of the City Code.
         f.   Street Standards: The standards for right-of-way widths in
subsection
13-2-5L of the City Code may be reduced by administrative approval of the
development plan, but not below twenty five feet (25').
         g.   Minimum Zoning Lot: Zoning lots in the C-7 High Density Campus
District shall not be less than one acre in size. Planned unit developments in
the C-7 High Density Campus District may be comprised of multiple zoning lots,
which may in turn be comprised of single or multiple lots of record (or
portions thereof), provided that all property within a planned unit development
in the C-7 High Density Campus District be under single ownership and/or
unified control.
         h.   Open Space: No less than twenty percent (20%) of the ground area
of a planned unit development in the C-7 High Density Campus District must be
maintained as open space for landscaped berms, buffer areas, recreational
facilities or stormwater retention facilities. Walkways, pedestrian areas, and
bicycle paths may be counted as open space, even if covered with impervious
surfaces.
         i.   Number Of Buildings; Mixed Uses: Multiple principal buildings may
be allowed on a zoning lot, except that there shall not be less than fifteen
feet (15') between principal buildings, unless buildings are connected by
pedestrian bridges, parking decks or ground level concourses. A building with
multiple-family dwelling units may be located on the same zoning lot as a
building devoted primarily to office uses in the C-7 High Density Campus
District, and such buildings may be connected by pedestrian bridges, parking
decks or ground level concourses.
         j.   Campus Design Elements: Planned unit developments in the C-7 High
Density Campus District will incorporate the following elements:
            (1)    Landscaped areas will exhibit continuity with prior stages
of development and satisfy the goals of the C-7 High Density Campus District.
            (2)    Exposed storage areas, trash and garbage retainers, exposed
machinery installation, service areas, truck loading areas, utility buildings
and structures, and similar accessory areas and structures will be accounted
for in the design of the project, and will be screened from view and made as
unobtrusive as reasonably possible.
            (3)    Internal traffic control design will minimize traffic
backups and other hazards on adjacent public streets for motorists entering and
exiting the development.
            (4)    The orientation of any buildings, including parking garages
and decks, will minimize the adverse impacts on any adjacent residential areas
from lighting, noise, deliveries, loading and unloading and general activity
levels.
            (5)    The exterior elevations of buildings will demonstrate an
architecturally harmonious development with other, existing buildings
throughout the entire development.
            (6)    If the planned unit development consists of more than a
single zoning lot or several subdivided lots under multiple ownerships, the
recorded easements and protective covenants ensure the continued maintenance of
the properties and of the various amenities, landscaping, improvements and
design features of the site.
         k.   Signage: Signage in the C-7 High Density Campus District shall
comply with the restrictions of chapter 11 of this title unless a localized
alternative sign plan is approved pursuant to section
12-11-8 of this title.
   K.   Commercial Use Matrix:
TABLE 3
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS USE MATRIX
P = Permitted use
C = Conditional use permit required
Uses C-1 C-2 C-3 C-4 C-5 C-6 C-7
Uses                                           C-1 C-2 C-3    C-4 C-5   C-6 C-7
Accessory uses and structures                  P   P   P      P   P     P
Accessory off site parking lots                        C
Adult Day Service Center                       C   C6  C      C   C10
Alternative tobacco establishments                     C18    C18
Animal clinic                                  C       P      C   C
Animal hospital                                        P
Artisanal retail establishments                        P14    P14 P14
Assisted living facility                               C          C3
Auto body repair                                       C
Auto filling station                                   P4     P4
Auto service repair                                    C
Bed and breakfast                              C
Body art establishments                                C23
Brewpub                                            P6  P      P   P     P   P6
Cannabis dispensaries                                  P19    P19 C19
Car wash                                               C      C5
Casino                                                                  P
Childcare center                               C   C6  C      C   C10       P6
Childcare center with accessory dwelling unit  C8
Colleges and universities                          C              C
Commercial art gallery                                 P      P   P
Commercial indoor recreation                       P   P      P   P
Commercial outdoor recreation                      C   C
Commercial parking garage                              C9         P
Commercial parking lot                                 C          C
Commercial shopping center                             P      P
Commercially zoned assembly uses                       C          C
Congregate housing                                     C      C   C3
Consumer lender                                        C
Convenience mart fueling or charging station           P4     P4
Convenience retail store                       P   P21 P      P   P
Domestic pet service                                   C11,12 C
Drive-through facility (located adjacent to        C13 C2     C2  C2,10
residential use)
Drive-through facility (not located adjacent       C13 P2     C2  C2,10
to residential use)
Dry cleaners with plants on premises                   P      P   P7
Dwellings, multiple-family                                        P3        P
Dwellings, single-family detached                  C22 C22
Financial institutions                             C   P      P   P         P
Food processing establishment                          P14    C26
Funeral homes                                  C   C   P          P10
Government facility                                P              P
Grocery retail                                         P      P   P
Hotels                                             C   P      C   P     P   P
Leasing/rental agents, small equipment                 C      C
Leasing/rental agents, vehicles (non-moving)           P          P
Leasing/rental agents, moving vehicles                 P24
Libraries, private                             C   P   P      P   P
Libraries, public                              P       P      P   P
Livery service                                                              P16
Massage establishments                                 C      C   C
Media broadcast stations                               P          P
Media print establishments                         P   P          P
Motor vehicle sales                                    C5     P
Offices                                        C   P   P      P17 P         P
Parks                                          P       P      P   P
Pharmacies/drugstores                          P       P      P   P
Planned developments                           C   C   C      C   C     C   C
Planned developments, mixed use                        C
Post Office                                        C   P      P   P
Public transportation centers                          P          P
Public utilities                                   P   P      P   P
Radio transmitting towers, public broadcasting     C   C      C
Residential care homes, small                  C
Restaurants:
Class A                                            P6  P      P   P     P   P6
Class B                                            P21 P      P   P         P6
Retail goods establishments                    P   P21 P      P   P     C   P6
Retail service establishments                  P   C   P      P   P     C   P6
Schools, commercial                                P   C          C         P
Schools, private - elementary and high school                     C15
Specialty food stores                          P   P   P      P   P     P   P
Studios, artist, dance and music               P   P   P      P   P         P
Taverns and lounges                            C   C6  P      P   P     P
Trade contractors                                      C
Transitional treatment facility                                   C
Wholesale goods establishments                         C      C
 
   Notes:
      1.   Reserved.
      2.   When an accessory use only.
      3.   When above the first floor only.
      4.   On sites of 15,000 square feet or more. Uses established after
August 21, 2023 are classified as permitted. Conditional use permits granted
before August 21, 2023 remain in full force and effect and are enforceable. All
convenience mart fueling or charging stations are subject to the Specific Use
Standards established in Chapter 8 of this Title.
      5.   On sites of 25,000 square feet or more. For proposed sites of less
than 25,000 square feet but more than 22,000 square feet, the City Council may
consider additional factors, including, but not limited to, traffic, economic
and other conditions of the area, or proposed business and site plan issues in
considering whether to grant a conditional use for a used car business of less
than 25,000 square feet but more than 22,000 square feet.
      6.   When incorporated within, or accessory to, an office/hotel use.
      7.   Where the dry cleaning establishment has a floor area greater than
1,500 square feet.
      8.   Where the dwelling unit is located on the same lot of record as, and
subordinate to, the childcare center and the childcare center proprietor
resides in the dwelling unit.
      9.   When located south of Touhy Avenue.
      10.   Except on Miner Street, Ellinwood Street or Lee Street.
      11.   Outdoor kennels are not allowed.
      12.   Outdoor runs are allowed.
      13.   When an accessory use to a financial institution.
      14.   When the total space/use is up to 2,500 square feet. Any total
space/use that is over 2,500 square feet must obtain a conditional use permit.
      15.   For properties with frontage on the 700 and 800 blocks of Lee
Street only. Any elementary or high school operating pursuant to a conditional
use may also operate kindergarten and pre-kindergarten programs accessory to
the school.
      16.   When the total number of livery service vehicles associated with
the subject business does not exceed 45 vehicles.
      17.   Each office use in the C-4 Regional Shopping District, except for
medical clinics and laboratories, shall be limited to 5,000 square feet of area
and shall not be contiguous to another office use.
      18.   Any alternative tobacco establishment use established after October
15, 2018 shall be a minimum of 1 mile from any other alternative tobacco
establishment and shall also be a minimum of 1 mile distance from any public or
private middle school or high school. Note, hookah lounges do not fall under
this land use category as hookah lounges and any other establishment where
tobacco or other oils are inhaled on-site are expressly prohibited.
      19.    No cannabis business establishment shall be located within 500
feet from any pre-existing pre-school, primary school, secondary school,
childcare center on a commercial zoning lot, or place of worship. All minimum
distance requirements shall be measured from zoning lot line to zoning lot
line.
      20.   When office uses are directly related to casino operation purposes
only.
      21.   When the total space/use is up to 2,500 square feet and is
accessory to an office building/hotel.
      22.   Only single-family detached dwellings that were lawfully
constructed prior to August 17, 2020 and are located in a zoning district other
than R-1 may, but are not required to, apply for a conditional use in order to
bring the use of the legally nonconforming property into conformance with the
Zoning Ordinance.
      23.   Body art establishments shall be located at least one mile away
from any other body art establishment. A body art establishment must not exceed
2,000 square feet of floor area.
      24.   When a secondary principal use to a lawfully established principal
use, the following applies: no more than five moving vehicles may be parked or
displayed at one time; and moving vehicles must be parked in a permanently
striped off-street parking space in compliance with all regulations of this
title and shall not be permitted where the off-street parking facility does not
provide enough spaces to satisfy the sum of the minimum requirements for all
uses on the zoning lot.
      25.   
      26.   With on-site consumption, public facing retail, or carryout service
available. Only one commercial vehicle associated with the use per 1,000 sq.
ft. may be parked onsite overnight, or a larger quantity as otherwise
authorized by the conditional use ordinance.
   L.   Commercial Bulk Matrix:
TABLE 4
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS BULK MATRIX
Bulk Controls C-12 C-24 C-3 C-43 C-5 C-63 C-75
Bulk Controls C-12        C-24        C-3         C-  C-5         C-63        C-
                                                  43                          75
Maximum       35 ft.      45 ft.      45 ft.      45  100 ft.     160 ft.     165
height                                            ft.                         ft.
Minimum front                                                            
yard1:
              Setback of  Setback of  Setback of                  Setback of
 Adjacent    adjacent    adjacent    adjacent    150 5 ft.       adjacent    50
  residential residential residential residential ft.             residential ft.
              district    district    district                    district
 Adjacent    5 ft.       5 ft.       5 ft.       150 n/a         5 ft.       25
  other                                           ft.                         ft.
Minimum side                                                             
yard:
              Setback of  Setback of  Setback of      Setback of  Setback of
 Adjacent    adjacent    adjacent    adjacent    25  adjacent    adjacent    50
  residential residential residential residential ft. residential residential ft.
              district    district    district        district    district
              5 ft. if    5 ft. if    5 ft. if        5 ft. if    5 ft. if
 Adjacent    abutting    abutting    abutting    25  abutting    abutting    25
  other       street or   street or   street or   ft. street or   street or   ft.
              alley       alley       alley           alley       alley
Minimum rear                                                             
yard:
              25 ft. or   25 ft. or   25 ft. or       25 ft. or   25 ft. or
  Adjacent    20% of lot  20% of lot  20% of lot  25  20% of lot  20% of lot  50
 residential depth,      depth,      depth,      ft. depth,      depth,      ft.
              whichever   whichever   whichever       whichever   whichever
              is less     is less     is less         is less     is less
 Adjacent    5 ft.       5 ft.       5 ft.       25  n/a         n/a         25
  other                                           ft.                         ft.
 
Notes:
   1.   With respect to front yard setbacks, "adjacent residential" shall mean
when at least 80 percent of the opposing block frontage is residential.
   2.   In the C-1 Neighborhood Shopping District, where the extension of a
front or side lot line coincides with front lot line of an adjacent lot in the
residential district, a yard equal in depth to the minimum front yard required
by this title on such adjacent lot in the residential district shall be
provided along such front or side lot line for a distance of at least 50 feet
which may include the width of any intervening alley, from such lot in the
residential district.
   3.   In the C-4 Regional Shopping District, and in the C-6 Casino District,
more than 1 structure may be allowed per lot, thus, setbacks shall be
maintained for each lot, and not to individual structures. Outlots part of a
commercial shopping center shall maintain a setback of 25 feet for all yards.
   4.   In the C-2 Limited Office Commercial District, a special height overlay
is in effect for Touhy Avenue from Greco Avenue to Scott Avenue in which the
maximum height shall be 35 feet. In addition, a special setback overlay is also
in effect for Touhy Avenue from Greco Avenue to Scott Avenue, requiring front
yard setbacks to be 65 feet, rear yard setbacks to be 50 feet, interior side
yard setbacks to be 15 feet or 5 percent of the lot width whichever is greater,
and corner lot side yard setbacks to be 65 feet.
   5.   In the C-7 High Density Campus District, the maximum total height of a
building located within 150 feet of a residential property line may not exceed
125 feet.
(Ord. Z-3-02, 3-4-2002; amd. Ord. Z-10-08, 5-5-2008; Ord. Z-11-15, 5-18-2015;
Ord. Z-14-15, 7-6-2015; Ord. Z-6-16, 4-4-2016; Ord. Z-9-16, 6-6-2016; Ord. Z-4-
18, 3-19-2018; Ord. Z-10-18, 5-21-2018; Ord. Z-17-18, 6-18-2018; Ord. Z-28-18,
9-4-2018; Ord. Z-31-18, 10-15-2018; Ord. Z-31-19, 12-2-2019; Ord. Z-32-19, 12-
2-2019; Ord. Z-4-20, 1-21-2020; Ord. Z-9-20, 3-16-2020; Ord. Z-15-20, 6-1-2020;
Ord. Z-16-20, 8-3-2020; Ord. Z-19-20, 9-8-2020; Ord. Z-22-20, 9-21-2020; Ord.
Z-28-21, 2-1-2021; Ord. Z-42-21, 8-16-2021; Ord. Z-6-22, 4-4-2022; Ord. Z-19-
22, 7-18-2022; Ord. Z-25-22, 9-19-2022; Ord. Z-17-23, 8-21-2023; Z-20-23, 8-21-
2023; Ord. Z-11-24, 6-17-2024; Ord. Z-21-24, 9-16-2024; Ord. Z-22-24, 10-7-
2024)
12-7-4: MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS REGULATIONS:
   A.    General Purpose Statement: The manufacturing districts set forth
herein are established to protect the stability of manufacturing activities in
the City and to encourage the development of new manufacturing activities by
providing adequate and appropriate space within the City.
   B.    Permitted Uses Generally: The uses specified as permitted in table 5,
"Manufacturing Districts Use Matrix", of this section, shall be considered
permitted as of right in the manufacturing districts, subject to any
limitations therein or in this chapter, and the securing of a zoning
certificate. The uses shall also be required to comply with all other
applicable requirements of this title and the City Code.
   C.    Conditional Uses Generally: The uses specified as conditional uses in
table 5, "Manufacturing Districts Use Matrix", of this section, may be allowed
in the manufacturing districts, subject to any limitations therein or in this
chapter, and the securing of a conditional use permit pursuant to section
12-3-4, "Conditional Uses", of this title. The uses shall also be required to
comply with all other applicable requirements of this title and the City Code.
   D.    M-1 Limited Manufacturing District:
      1.    Purpose: The purpose of the M-1 Limited Manufacturing District is
to provide locations for light manufacturing uses and associated services.
      2.    Permitted Uses: The uses permitted in the M-1 Limited Manufacturing
District are set forth in table 5, "Manufacturing Districts Use Matrix", of
this section.
      3.    Conditional Uses: The uses allowed as conditional uses in the M-
1 Limited Manufacturing District, pursuant to section
12-3-4, "Conditional Uses", of this title, are set forth in table 5,
"Manufacturing Districts Use Matrix", of this section.
      4.    Bulk Regulations: The bulk regulations that apply to the M-
1 Limited Manufacturing District are listed within table 6, "Manufacturing
Districts Bulk Matrix", of this section.
      5.    Site Plan Review:
         a.    Open Storage: The open or unenclosed storage of materials or
equipment shall be strictly prohibited in the M-1 Limited Manufacturing
District.
         b.    Lights: If the premises abuts a residential district, lighting
fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary to avoid casting direct light upon
such abutting residential district.
         c.    Limited Accessory Retail Sales: Limited accessory retail sales
of goods assembled, fabricated, or processed on site by light manufacturing
uses will be permitted provided the floor area devoted to the accessory retail
sales shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the floor area for the light
manufacturing uses.
         d.    Fencing: If a premises abuts a residential district or use, a
solid opaque view screen fence, eight feet (8') in height, shall be provided
upon the premises along each property line abutting the residential district or
use.
   E.    M-2 General Manufacturing District:
      1.    Purpose: The purpose of the M-2 General Manufacturing District is
to provide a location for general manufacturing uses and related uses in
conformance with the comprehensive plan.
      2.    Permitted Uses: The uses permitted in the M-2 General Manufacturing
District are set forth in table 5, "Manufacturing Districts Use Matrix", of
this section.
      3.    Conditional Uses: The uses allowed as conditional uses in the M-
2 General Manufacturing District, pursuant to section
12-3-4, "Conditional Uses", of this title, are set forth in table 5,
"Manufacturing Districts Use Matrix", of this section.
      4.    Bulk Regulations: The bulk regulations that apply to the M-
2 General Manufacturing District are listed within table 6, "Manufacturing
Districts Bulk Matrix", of this section.
      5.    Standards For Site Plan Review:
         a.    Open Storage: The following regulations shall apply to outside
and open storage within the M-2 District:
            (1)    No part of the lot area shall be used for open or unenclosed
storage of materials used in manufacturing, processing or assembly of products.
            (2)    No open storage is permitted except in bins or where
enclosed by a solid wood or masonry fence not less than eight feet (8') high,
any other ordinances of the City to the contrary notwithstanding.
            (3)    All permitted outside storage shall only be located in the
side and rear yards of the subject property.
            (4)    All outside or open storage must be associated with the
primary use located on the same zoning lot.
            (5)    No inoperable vehicles and equipment or damage vehicles or
equipment may be stored outside except in the rear yard and fully enclosed by a
solid wood or masonry fence not less than eight feet (8') high.
            (6)    No outside or open storage shall block required emergency
vehicle access at any time.
            (7)    No outside or open storage shall occupy required off street
parking spaces as regulated in section
12-9-7 of this title.
            (8)    No open or outside storage shall exceed eight feet (8') in
height. Storage containers shall not be stacked atop of another storage
container.
            (9)    Any deviation from this section shall be subject to the
review of the zoning administrator through a minor variation pursuant to
section
12-3-6.E. “Minor Variations” of this title.
         b.    Lights: If the premises abuts a residential district, lighting
fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary to avoid casting direct light upon
such abutting residential district.
         c.    Limited Accessory Retail Sales: Limited accessory retail sales
of goods assembled, fabricated, wholesaled, distributed, or processed on site
by light manufacturing uses will be permitted provided the floor area devoted
to the accessory retail sales shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the
floor area for the manufacturing, wholesale, or distribution uses.
         d.    Fencing: If the premises abuts a residential district or use, a
solid opaque view screen fence, eight feet (8') in height, shall be provided
upon the premises along each property line abutting such residential district
or use.
   F.    M-3 Special Manufacturing District:
      1.    Purpose: The purpose of the M-3 Special Manufacturing District is
to provide locations for light manufacturing, distribution, office and research
related facilities.
      2.    Permitted Uses: The uses permitted in the M-3 Special Manufacturing
District are set forth in table 5, "Manufacturing Districts Use Matrix", of
this section.
      3.    Conditional Uses: The uses allowed as conditional uses in the M-
3 Special Manufacturing District, pursuant to section
12-3-4, "Conditional Uses", of this title, are set forth in table 5,
"Manufacturing Districts Use Matrix", of this section.
      4.    Bulk Regulations: The bulk regulations that apply to the M-
3 Special Manufacturing District are listed within table 6, "Manufacturing
Districts Bulk Matrix", of this section.
      5.    Site Plan Review:
         a.    Open Storage: The open or unenclosed storage of materials or
equipment shall be strictly prohibited in the M-3 Special Manufacturing
District.
         b.    Lights: If the premises abuts a residential district, lighting
fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary to avoid casting direct light upon
such abutting residential district.
         c.    Fencing: If a premises abuts a residential district or use, a
solid opaque view screen fence, eight feet (8') in height, shall be provided
upon the premises along each property line abutting the residential district or
use.
   G.    Manufacturing Use Matrix:
TABLE 5
MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS USE MATRIX
P = Permitted use
C = Conditional use permit required
Uses M-1 M-2 M-3
Uses                                           M-1    M-2    M-3
Accessory uses and structures                  P      P      P
Animal hospitals                                      C
Auto body repair                               P      P
Auto filling station                           P      P
Auto service repair                            P      P
Brewery                                        C      P      P
Cannabis Cultivation Center                           C5, 6
Cannabis Dispensaries                                 P5
Cannabis Craft Grower                                 C5
Cannabis Processor                                    C5
Cannabis Infuser                               C5     C5
Car wash                                              C
Childcare center                                      C7
Commercial indoor recreation                   C      C
Commercial motor vehicle sales and leasing     C      C
Commercial outdoor recreation                  C      C
Commercial shopping center                            C
Commercial storage                                    P
Commercial truck parking lot                          C
Contractor's storage yard                             C
Distillery                                     C      P      P
Distribution facilities                               P      P
Domestic pet service                           C1,2,3 C1,2,3
Food processing establishment                  C      P
Grocery retail                                 C      C
Leasing/rental agents, small equipment         P      P
Leasing/rental agents, large equipment         C      C
Leasing agents, vehicles (non-moving)          C      P
Leasing agents, moving vehicles                P      P
Livery service                                        C
Manufacturing - heavy                                 P
Manufacturing - light                          P      P      P
Manufacturing service establishments           C      P
Motor vehicle sales                                   P
Offices                                        P      P      P
Outdoor bulk material facility                        C4
Planned developments                           C      C      C
Public utilities                               C      P
Radio transmitting towers, public broadcasting C      C      C
Recycling center                               C      C
Research, testing and development industries   P      P      P
Restaurants:
Class A                                               C
Class B                                               P
Retail goods establishments                    C      C
Schools, commercial                            P      C
Shooting range, indoor                                C
Trade contractors                              P      P
Vehicle towing                                        C
Warehouse                                      C      P      P
Wholesale goods establishments                 C      P
 
   Notes:
      1.   All domestic pet services shall be at least 300 feet from any
residential dwelling.
      2.   Outdoor kennels are not allowed.
      3.   Outdoor runs are allowed.
      4.   Outdoor bulk material storage shall only be allowed on the 1200 and
1300 blocks of East Golf Road. All outdoor storage areas shall be completely
screened with either a solid masonry or wood fence and no outdoor materials
shall exceed the height of the solid fence.
      5.    No cannabis business establishment shall be located within 500 feet
of any pre-existing pre-school, primary school, secondary school, childcare
center on a commercial zoning lot, or place of worship. All minimum distance
requirements shall be measured from zoning lot line to zoning lot line.
      6.   Any cannabis cultivation center may not be located less than 2,500
feet away from existing public or private pre-schools, elementary or secondary
schools, childcare centers, day care homes, group day care homes, part day
childcare facilities, or any parcel zoned for residential use. This minimum
distance shall be measured from zoning lot line to zoning lot line to the
specified uses.
      7.   Only allowed as a secondary principal use and only when the primary
principal use has twenty or more personnel employed on site.
   H.   Manufacturing Bulk Matrix:
TABLE 6
MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS BULK MATRIX
Bulk Controls M-1 M-2 M-3
Bulk Controls                                       M-1     M-2     M-3
Maximum height                                      50 ft.  60 ft.1 50 ft.
Minimum front yard:                                                
 Adjacent manufacturing, not on major thoroughfare 60 ft.  50 ft.  60 ft.
 Adjacent other, or on major thoroughfare          60 ft.  65 ft.  60 ft.
Minimum side yard:                                                 
 Adjacent manufacturing                            60 ft.  25 ft.  60 ft.
 Adjacent other                                    60 ft.  50 ft.  60 ft.
Minimum rear yard:                                                 
 Adjacent manufacturing                            60 ft.  25 ft.  60 ft.
 Adjacent other                                    60 ft.  50 ft.  60 ft.
Minimum lot size                                    5 acres None    5 acres
Maximum building coverage                           75%     70%     75%
 
   Note:
      1.   In instances when an M-2 zoned site shares a property line with a
residentially zoned parcel(s), no portion of any principal building or
structure on the M-2 zoned site shall be taller than 40 feet when within 120
feet of such abutting residentially zoned parcel(s). Portions of buildings or
structures farther away than 120 feet from a residentially zoned parcel(s) may
go up to the maximum allowable building height of 60 feet.
(Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998; amd. Ord. Z-13-14, 5-5-2014; Ord. Z-6-16, 4-4-2016;
Ord. Z-4-18, 3-19-2018; Ord. Z-5-18, 3-19-2018; Ord. Z-17-18, 6-18-2018; Ord.
Z-23-18, 8-20-2018; Ord. Z-31-18, 10-15-2018; Ord. Z-18-19, 8-5-2019; Ord. Z-
31-19, 12-2-2019; Ord. Z-15-20, 6-1-2020; Ord. Z-42-21, 8-16-2021; Ord. Z-19-
22, 7-18-2022; Ord. Z-21-22, 7-18-2022; Ord. Z-14-23, 7-17-2023; Ord. Z-11-24,
6-17-2024)
12-7-5: SPECIAL DISTRICTS REGULATIONS:
   A.   Institutional District:
      1.   Purpose: The I-1 institutional district is designed to recognize the
public or semipublic nature of the institutional district and to provide
guidelines for their continued use and future development. The I-
1 institutional district shall provide protection for existing institutional
facilities by prohibiting the encroachment of noncompatible uses.
      2.   Permitted Uses: The uses specified as permitted in table 7,
"Institutional District Use Matrix", of this section, shall be considered
permitted as of right in the institutional districts, subject to any
limitations therein or in this chapter, and the securing of a zoning
certificate. The uses shall also be required to comply with all other
applicable requirements of this title and the city code.
      3.   Conditional Uses: The uses specified as conditional uses in table 7,
"Institutional District Use Matrix", of this section, may be allowed in the
institutional districts, subject to any limitations therein or in this chapter,
and the securing of a conditional use permit pursuant to section
12-3-4, "Conditional Uses", of this title. The uses shall also be required to
comply with all other applicable requirements of this title and the city code.
      4.   Bulk Regulations: The bulk regulations that apply to the I-
1 institutional district are listed within table 8, "Institutional District
Bulk Matrix", of this section.
      5.   Standards For Site Plan Review:
         a.   Parking In Rear Yard Only: Off street parking and loading areas
shall not be permitted in any required front or side yard in the institutional
district, and the parking areas shall be set back a minimum of five feet (5')
from the rear property lines, except in such a situation where the rear
property line is also a dedicated street right of way line. In this case, there
shall be a setback from such right of way lines of at least 25 feet.
         b.   Spacing Of Detached Buildings On The Same Zoning Lot: No more
than one principal building may be placed on a lot less than four (4) acres in
size. On lots of more than four (4) acres in size, more than one principal
building may be located provided that two (2) acres of land area shall be
required for each principal building. All detached buildings shall maintain a
minimum separation of twenty five feet (25').
      6.   Institutional Use Matrix:
TABLE 7
INSTITUTIONAL DISTRICT USE MATRIX
P = Permitted use
C = Conditional use permit required
Use I-1
Use                                                                         I-1
Accessory uses and structures                                               P
Assisted living facility                                                    P
Cemetery, mausoleums, and crematoriums                                      P
Childcare center                                                            C
Colleges and universities                                                   P
Commercial indoor recreation                                                C
Commercial outdoor recreation                                               C
Congregate housing                                                          P
Convents and monasteries                                                    P
Forest preserves                                                            P
Government offices                                                          P
Hospitals                                                                   P
Institutional headquarters, educational, professional, and religious        P
Institutionally zoned assembly uses (located along an arterial roadway)     P
Institutionally zoned assembly uses (not located along an arterial roadway) C
Massage establishment                                                       C1
Offices                                                                     P
Parks                                                                       P
Planned developments                                                        C
Public utilities                                                            C
Rectories and parish houses                                                 P
Restaurants                                                                 P2
Schools, private - elementary and high school                               P
Schools, public - elementary and high school                                P
 
Notes:
   1.   When located on the same zoning lot as a hospital or medical office
building.
   2.    When located on the same zoning lot as lawfully established commercial
indoor or outdoor recreation, college/university, park, or institutionally
zoned assembly uses.
      7.   Institutional Bulk Matrix:
TABLE 8
INSTITUTIONAL DISTRICT BULK MATRIX
Bulk Controls   I-1
Maximum height:
Bulk Controls             I-1
Maximum height:
 Adjacent nonresidential 100 ft.
 Adjacent residential    45 ft. plus 5 ft. for each 10 ft. of additional
                          setback provided
Minimum front yard        50 ft.
Minimum side yard         25 ft.
Minimum rear yard         50 ft.
Minimum lot size          2 acres
Maximum lot coverage      40% 1
 
   Note:
      1.   Graves shall not be counted toward lot coverage, provided that no
individual aboveground memorial exceeds 30 square feet in face area or 10 feet
in height.
   B.   Mobile Home Park District:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of the MH-1 mobile home park district is to
provide appropriate locations for individual mobile/manufactured homes in a
parklike setting which are adequately served by public utilities.
      2.   Permitted Uses: The uses specified as permitted in table 9, "Mobile
Home Park District Use Matrix", of this section, shall be considered permitted
as of right in the mobile home park districts, subject to any limitations
therein or in this chapter, and the securing of a zoning certificate. The uses
shall also be required to comply with all other applicable requirements of this
title and the city code.
      3.   Conditional Uses: The uses specified as conditional uses in table 9,
"Mobile Home Park District Use Matrix", of this section, may be allowed in the
mobile home districts, subject to any limitations therein or in this chapter,
and the securing of a conditional use permit pursuant to section
12-3-4, "Conditional Uses", of this title. The uses shall also be required to
comply with all other applicable requirements of this title and the city code.
      4.   Bulk Requirements: The bulk regulations that apply to the mobile
home park district are listed within table 10, "Mobile Home Park District Bulk
Matrix", of this section.
      5.   Standards For Site Review: Mobile home park districts shall be
subject to the following standards:
         a.   Minimum Separation: A minimum separation of ten feet (10') shall
be maintained between a mobile home and any other structure.
         b.   Access: Every mobile home lot shall have access to and abut a
private driveway. The driveway shall have an unobstructed access to a public
thoroughfare.
         c.   Street And Driveways: All streets and driveways, in every mobile
home park shall be paved with a minimum width of twenty four feet (24').
         d.   Common Open Space: Common open space equal to two hundred fifty
(250) square feet per home shall be provided at common locations within the
park.
         e.   Designated Operator: Every mobile home park shall have a
designated operator for the park. The operator shall provide the zoning
administrator with his name, office hours, office mailing address, and
emergency contact persons and numbers.
         f.   Maintenance: It shall be the duty of the mobile home park
operator to secure the maintenance of the park and ensuring that the park meets
all applicable state or local laws, ordinances or regulations.
         g.   Incidental Retail Sales: Incidental retail sales of mobile homes
may be permitted in a mobile home park provided no mobile home models are
located on the site of the mobile home park.
         h.   One For One Replacement: For the purposes of this title, the one
to one replacement of a mobile home with another mobile home shall be
permitted, notwithstanding the prohibitions set forth in sections
12-5-5, "Nonconforming Uses", and 12-5-6, "Nonconforming Structures", of this
title.
   C.   Mobile Home Park Use Matrix:
TABLE 9
MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT USE MATRIX
Uses MH-1
Uses                          MH-1
Accessory uses and structures P
Convents and monasteries      C
Forest preserves              P
Mobile/manufactured homes     P
Parks                         P
Places of worship             P
Rectories and parish houses   C
 
   D.   Mobile Home Park Bulk Matrix:
TABLE 10
MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT BULK MATRIX
Bulk Controls MH-1
Bulk Controls                                         MH-1
Maximum height of any mobile home                     14 ft.
Maximum height of buildings and structures other than 21/2 stories to 35 ft.
mobile homes
Minimum floor area per mobile home unit               700 sq. ft.
Minimum mobile home slip size                         1,500 sq. ft. per unit
Minimum open space per mobile home park1              250 ft. per unit
Minimum setback from any publicly dedicated street    25 ft.
Minimum setback from any mobile home park boundary    25 ft.
Maximum building coverage for entire mobile home park 50%
 
   Note:
      1.   Impervious surface devoted to driveways, roadways, and walkways
shall not be used to calculate open space requirements.
(Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998; amd. Ord. Z-3-13, 2-4-2013; Ord. Z-3-22, 2-22-2022;
Ord. Z-8-24, 6-3-2024; Ord. Z-12-24, 6-17-2024)
CHAPTER 8
ACCESSORY, TEMPORARY, AND SPECIFIC USE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
12-8-1: Accessory Uses And Structures
12-8-2: Fence Regulations
12-8-3: Antenna Regulations
12-8-4: Radio Transmitting Towers, Public Broadcasting
12-8-5: Commercial Mobile Radio And Wireless Telecommunications Service
Facilities
12-8-6: Bed And Breakfast Establishments
12-8-7: Childcare Centers And Adult Day Service Centers
12-8-8: Home Occupations
12-8-9: Child Home Care
12-8-10: Residential Care Homes
12-8-11: Temporary Uses
12-8-12: Consumer Lender
12-8-13: Cannabis Business Establishments
12-8-14: Arbor And Trellis Regulations
12-8-15: Convenience Mart Fueling Or Charging Stations
12-8-16: Recreational Vehicles
12-8-1: ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES:
Accessory uses and structures shall be permitted in all zoning districts
subject to the following regulations:
   A.   Accessory uses and structures shall be:
      1.   Incidental to the principal use or structure served;
      2.   Operated and maintained under the same ownership and on the same
lot, or adjoining lots, as the principal use or structure; and
      3.   Subordinate in height, area, bulk, and location to the principal use
or structure served.
   B.   An accessory use or structure shall not be established or constructed
prior to the construction or establishment of the principal use or structure to
which it serves, unless approved as a temporary use pursuant to section 12-8-
11, “Temporary Uses”, of this chapter.
   C.   The bulk standards for accessory structures shall be as set forth
below:
      1.   The maximum height of an accessory structure shall be fifteen feet
(15').
      2.   The minimum front yard setback for an accessory structure shall be
the front building line of the principal structure.
      3.   The minimum side and rear yard setbacks for an accessory structure
shall be five feet (5'). However, a detached accessory garage or carport for a
residential use in the R-1 and R-2 Residential Districts may be located on the
rear lot line where the rear lot line abuts an alley. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
      4.   The maximum number of accessory structures permitted for any use
shall be two (2); however, there shall be no more than one garage or carport
(attached or detached) per residential dwelling.
      5.   The maximum area of a detached garage or carport shall be 720 square
feet. The maximum area of an accessory structure other than a detached garage
or carport shall be 225 square feet.
      6.   Non-residentially zoned lots may have one detached garage or carport
only if the following criteria are met:
         a.   Maximum area: For lots under 20,000 square feet in area, the
maximum area of a detached garage or carport is 720 square feet. For lots over
20,000 square feet in area, the maximum area of a detached garage or carport is
960 square feet.
         b.   Maximum height: The garage or carport cannot exceed 15 feet in
height.
         c.   Setbacks: The garage or carport must be setback at least ten feet
from the side and rear lot lines.
         d.   Interior surface. The surface within the detached garage or
underneath the detached carport upon which vehicles or other items are stored
shall be improved with a dust-free hard surface that complies with all other
applicable regulations and provisions of this Code.
         e.   The detached garage or carport complies with all other applicable
regulations and provisions of this Code. (Ord. Z-36-18, 12-3-2018; amd. Ord. Z-
3-20, 1-6-2020; Ord. Z-27-23, 10-2-2023)
12-8-2: FENCE REGULATIONS:
In addition to conforming to the regulations for accessory uses and structures
set forth above, all fences shall meet the following requirements:
   A.   Height Requirement:
      1.   The maximum height of a fence for a nonresidential use shall be
eight feet (8').
      2. The maximum height of a fence for a residential use shall be four feet
(4') when located in front yards and corner side yards and six feet (6') when
located in rear yards, side yards, or within the buildable area of the lot.
When a six foot (6') tall fence is located in any rear yard or side yard, there
shall be no portion of such fence located within the ten foot (10') sight
triangle of any alley, driveway or street. Lots having double frontage, one of
which abuts an arterial street, may erect a fence of six feet (6') along the
frontage, which abuts the arterial street. Lots that abut the railroad right of
way may erect an eight foot (8') tall fence along the side that abuts the
railroad right of way. In instances when a fence is not located on a property
line, all portions of the subject lot shall be properly maintained. New fencing
shall be located at least five feet (5') away from any parallel fence when
located on the same property.
   B.   Minimum Setback: Setbacks shall not be required for fences except those
adjacent to alleys, in which case such fence shall be set back a minimum of
three feet (3') from the alley right of way.
   C.   Gates Required: All fences that completely enclose a residential lot
shall have at least one gate access to one or more principal entrances to such
dwelling.
   D.   Location Of Posts: All fence posts shall be located on the side of the
fence facing the fence owner's property, and the fence's finished side shall
face the exterior of the lot.
   E.   Maintenance: Every fence shall be maintained in a good and safe
condition at all times. Every damaged or missing element of any fence shall be
repaired or replaced immediately.
   F.   Additional Regulations For Fences In Residential Districts:
      1.   Transparency: Front yard fences in residential districts shall be
constructed in such a manner so as to provide at least fifty percent (50%) open
"see through" area of uniform distribution.
      2.   Uniformity For Townhouse Fences: Where two (2) or more dwelling
units are connected by a common wall, fences for such separate dwelling units
shall be of uniform height, material, type, color and design.
      3.   In instances when abutting properties share a driveway, no fence or
any other type of raised barrier shall be installed either on or near a
property line within the shared driveway area.
   G.   Special Regulations For Barbed Wire And Electrically Charged Fences:
      1.   Barbed wire and electrically charged fences may be permitted only in
nonresidential districts, and only where the zoning administrator first makes a
finding that such a fence is necessary to protect the safety of persons or for
security of the property, and issues a permit accordingly. In making his
determination the zoning administrator may consider the type of use involved
and its inherent danger to the public safety.
      2.   Where the zoning administrator determines that a barbed wire or
electrically charged fence is appropriate, the fence shall be installed at
least six feet (6') above ground level, and either:
         a.   In a gable configuration having five (5) strands or less, or
         b.   Attached to an angled arm supported approximately forty five
degrees (45°) to the vertical and having three (3) strands or less.
   H.   Dog Run: Fences erected to establish, permit or maintain a dog run
shall be screened from view of the street by the primary structure, fencing, or
landscaping, and shall not be closer than ten feet (10') to any side or rear
lot line and twenty five feet (25') from the front lot line. Nothing herein
contained shall prohibit a dog owner from allowing his or her dogs to be
allowed on the owner's premises, provided that such premises are completely
fenced.
   I.    Abutting Fences Prohibited: Fences that directly abut existing fences
are prohibited when located on the same property. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998; amd.
Ord. Z-44-04, 9-7-2004; Ord. Z-8-14, 4-7-2014; Ord. Z-15-19, 7-1-2019; Ord. Z-
3-20, 1-6-2020)
12-8-3: ANTENNA REGULATIONS:
In addition to conforming to the general regulations for accessory uses and
structures set forth in section
12-8-1, "Accessory Uses And Structures", of this chapter, antennas, including
satellite dishes greater than twenty four inches (24") in diameter, and any
supporting structure, shall conform to the following regulations. Satellite
dishes and antennas twenty four inches (24") in diameter or less shall be
exempt from the requirements contained herein.
   A.   General Regulations:
      1.   The antenna shall meet all applicable local, state and federal laws
and ordinances.
      2.   All materials shall be of a noncorrosive material to prevent metal
fatigue from maintenance neglect.
      3.   The smallest practical size shall be used for any dish, but shall
not exceed a maximum of ten feet (10') in its outside diameter.
      4.   All electrical installations shall be in accordance with the
national electric code and all applicable city ordinances.
      5.   Where an earth station or dish antenna is located on nonresidential
property that abuts a residential property, it shall be allowed only in the
rear or side yard of all zoning districts, and shall meet the setback
requirements for the district in which they are located, for the abutting side.
      6.   All installations shall exhibit architectural quality, coloration to
blend with surroundings, and structural integrity. Experimental or temporary
installations, inferior materials, and questionable stability are not
permitted. In every case the entire installation shall be compatible with the
character of the surrounding area of the city. All installations shall be
constructed to avoid the creation of an attractive nuisance.
      7.   Only one antenna shall be allowed per lot or parcel of land.
   B.   Regulations Specific To Residential Districts:
      1.   No earth station or dish antenna shall be mounted onto the top or
side of any residentially zoned building.
      2.   Earth stations or dish antennas shall be allowed only in the rear or
side yard of all zoning districts, and shall meet the setback requirements for
the district in which they are located.
      3.   Ground mounted earth station antennas shall be erected at the
minimum height that allows satellite reception, not to exceed twenty two feet
(22') in height. The height measurement shall be calculated from the
established grade to the dish center.
      4.   Any ground placed antenna drive mechanisms, less than six feet (6')
high to its lowest point, shall be enclosed by an opaque, solid view screen
fence six feet (6') in height.
   C.   Regulations Specific To Nonresidential Districts:
      1.   Dishes to be mounted on a rooftop shall require an installation plan
from a licensed structural engineer or architect.
      2.   Permanent foundations shall be adequate for the anticipated wind
loads. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-8-4: RADIO TRANSMITTING TOWERS, PUBLIC BROADCASTING:
   A.   General Requirements: Public broadcasting radio transmitting towers
shall meet the following requirements:
      1.   Each public broadcasting radio transmitting tower shall be owned and
operated by commercial radio stations fully licensed by the federal
communications commission;
      2.   Each public broadcasting radio transmitting tower shall be guyed and
insulated;
      3.   Each public broadcasting radio transmitting tower shall be of
uniform cross section construction; and
      4.   Each public broadcasting radio transmitting tower shall be of no
greater height than permitted by the federal aviation authority. Permitted
accessory uses to such radio towers shall include underground ground systems
radials and enclosures to house tuning equipment, as well as devices and
equipment for receiving, transmitting or monitoring radio signals for access to
program support materials.
   B.   Complaint Response Process: Every owner or operator of a public
broadcasting radio transmitting tower shall provide, in writing, to the zoning
administrator a complaint response process which incorporates the following
aspects:
      1.   The permittee and its successors in interest investigate complaints
and provide, at its own expense, services and materials reasonably necessary to
reduce or eliminate interference with radio; television; public address systems
and other stationary, permanent, wired internal communications apparatus, where
such interference is reasonably related to such towers.
      2.   All such complaints shall be investigated promptly after written
notice to the permittee, corrective action begun as soon as practicable
thereafter and pursued diligently.
      3.   For purposes of giving notice under this subsection, each such
permittee shall inform the city's zoning administrator of its current business
address where the notice shall be given.
      4.   Any complaints of interference with telephones, where the equipment
is owned by the telephone company, shall be referred by said permittee to the
telephone company which has sole and exclusive jurisdiction to investigate and
correct same. All such permittees shall cooperate with the telephone company to
correct telephone interference where reasonably appropriate regardless of who
owns the telephone equipment. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-8-5: COMMERCIAL MOBILE RADIO AND WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE
FACILITIES:
Commercial mobile radio and wireless telecommunications service facilities
shall meet the following requirements, unless the facility is to be constructed
and operated only for a temporary period, in which case section
12-8-11 of this Code applies.
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   Application for the installation of a commercial mobile radio
service facility, which for the purposes of this section shall include wireless
telecommunications service facilities, shall be filed with the zoning
administrator, on forms so provided, and in accordance with the requirements of
section
12-3-1, "Applications and Hearings", of this title.
      2.   Eligible Facilities Requests:
         a.   Modifications to existing commercial mobile radio service
facilities that are "eligible facilities requests" and do not substantially
change the physical dimensions of the existing tower or base station, in
accordance with and pursuant to the Spectrum Act, see Section 6409a of the
Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act, USCS § 1455, are not subject to
the location requirements, maximum height regulations, site plan review
requirements, or conditional use permit requirements set forth in this section.
         b.   The Zoning Administrator will review a complete application for a
modification to existing mobile radio service facilities claiming status as
"eligible facilities requests" within 60 days of its submission. If the Zoning
Administrator determines that the application qualifies as an "eligible
facilities request" and does not substantially change the physical dimensions
of the existing tower or base station, the Zoning Administrator may approve the
application administratively, provided the application complies with the design
criteria set forth in this section.
      3.   Commercial mobile radio service facilities and their associated
accessory uses may be either freestanding, roof mounted, or building mounted.
Commercial mobile radio service facilities may be permitted on a zoning lot as
a secondary principal use. The primary principal use on the property must be in
existence prior to the establishment of the commercial mobile radio service
facility.
      4.   Commercial mobile radio service facilities permitted as of right by
subsection G of this section, shall be subject to site plan review pursuant to
section
12-3-2, "Site Plan Review", of this title.
      5.   Commercial mobile radio service facilities allowed conditionally by
subsection G of this section, shall be subject to the requirements for
conditional use permits as set forth in section
12-3-4, "Conditional Uses", of this title.
      6.   Where a commercial mobile radio service facility becomes abandoned,
obsolescent, or ceases to be used, except in relation to acts of God, it shall
be taken down and removed from the premises by the owner of the facility, or
its agents, or the person having control of the premises on which the facility
is located within six (6) months of a finding by the zoning administrator of
its abandonment, obsolescence, or cessation of use.
   B.   Location Requirements:
      1.   No commercial mobile radio service facility shall be located in any
required yard, nor shall a freestanding commercial mobile radio service
facility be located within fifty feet (50') of any property boundary line.
      2.   A freestanding commercial mobile radio service facility shall be set
back from any residential zoning district a distance equivalent to its height;
provided however, that in no case shall a freestanding commercial mobile radio
service facility be located closer than one hundred feet (100') from any
residential district.
      3.   Freestanding commercial mobile radio service facilities and their
related accessory structures when located on a site as a secondary principal
use shall be located behind the rear of the structure housing the primary
principal use. Vehicle access to the tower and related accessory structure
shall not interfere with the parking or vehicular circulation provided for the
primary principal use.
   C.   Collocation:
      1.   The city encourages collocation of commercial mobile radio service
facilities on existing or planned commercial mobile radio service facilities in
order to achieve the most efficient use of land within the community.
Therefore, owners, lessees, or employees thereof shall cooperate in good faith
with other wireless communication providers to achieve the collocation of
commercial mobile radio service facilities.
      2.   Where collocation is not utilized in establishing a commercial
mobile radio service facility, an applicant shall be required to demonstrate
that the proposed site is of practical necessity and that an existing facility
is either unavailable or cannot provide the necessary coverage over the
proposed service area.
   D.   Design Criteria:
      1.   Commercial mobile radio service facilities may be either
freestanding, roof mounted, or building mounted. For the purposes of this
section, the location of a commercial mobile radio service facility on
municipal water towers shall be allowed and considered to fall in the category
of roof mounted facilities, however, the commercial mobile radio service
facility may not extend more than ten feet (10') above the top of the municipal
water tower.
      2.   Commercial mobile radio service facilities shall be designed to be
compatible with neighboring buildings and uses. Efforts shall be taken when
locating commercial mobile radio service facilities to preserve or enhance the
existing character of a site's topography and vegetation.
      3.   Commercial mobile radio service facilities shall be painted to blend
or match with a host building or the environment. The facility shall be of a
single color, having a flat, matte, nongloss, nonfluorescent finish. The color
scheme for the facility shall be subject to the approval of the zoning
administrator.
      4.   Screening techniques such as landscaping, berming, screening, and
fencing shall be incorporated into each site as deemed appropriate.
      5.   No advertising, logos, or corporate symbols shall be permitted on
any commercial mobile radio service facility or any building or structure
accessory thereto.
   E.   Construction Requirements:
      1.   Applications for the installation of commercial mobile radio service
facilities shall be required to include documentation that the facility is
designed in accordance with the city's building code, in addition to all state
and federal laws and regulations concerning aviation safety. Applications for
modifications to existing commercial mobile radio service facilities that are
"eligible facilities requests" pursuant to the Spectrum Act, see Section 6409a
of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act, USCS § 1455, must submit
sufficient information and documentation to demonstrate that the request is an
"eligible facilities request" and the proposed facilities do not result in a
substantial change to the physical dimensions of the existing tower or base
station, in accordance with the Spectrum Act.
      2.   Every commercial mobile radio service facility shall be fully
automated. No employee of the communication provider shall be stationed at the
site, except for the completion of periodic maintenance.
      3.   Every application for the installation of commercial mobile radio
service facility shall include documentation that the owner of the property has
granted, by agreement, use of the property for the proposed facility.
      4.   Buildings or structures accessory to commercial mobile radio service
facilities shall be compatible with the surrounding built or natural
environment. An accessory building or structure shall not exceed a height of
fifteen feet (15'), nor exceed a size of four hundred fifty (450) square feet.
      5.   Where a freestanding commercial mobile radio service facility is
located on a site as a principal use or a secondary principal use, a fence of
eight feet (8') in height shall be required to encompass the freestanding tower
and any associated accessory building or structure.
   F.   Height Requirements: Commercial mobile radio service facilities shall
be exempt from the height requirements set forth in each district established
under chapter 7, "Districts", of this title. Maximum height requirements for
commercial mobile radio service facilities shall be as follows:
 
Type Of Structure        Height
Freestanding facilities  100 feet in the manufacturing districts and 50 feet in
                         the commercial districts2
Roof or building mounted 15 feet above the existing height of the building or
                         structure1, 2
 
   Note:
      1.   For municipal water towers see subsection D1 of this section.
      2.   The maximum height requirements do not apply to modifications to
existing commercial mobile radio service facilities that qualify as "eligible
facility requests" and do not result in a substantial change to the dimensions
of the tower or base station, pursuant to and in accordance with the Spectrum
Act, see Section 6409a of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act,
USCS § 1455.
   G.   District Requirements: The following districts shall allow for
commercial mobile radio service facilities1, 2:
Location Of Tower Type Of Structure
Districts         Freestanding Freestanding (Secondary Roof Or Building Mounted
                               Principal Use)
Location Of Tower        Type Of Structure
Districts                Freestanding Freestanding (Secondary Roof Or Building
                                      Principal Use)          Mounted
Residential:
 R-4 central core       -            -                       C
  residential
Commercial:
 C-1 neighborhood       -            -                       C
  shopping
 C-2 limited office     -            C                       C
  commercial
 C-3 general commercial -            C                       P
 C-4 regional shopping  -            C                       P
 C-5 central business   -            -                       P
Manufacturing:
 M-1 limited            C            P                       P
  manufacturing
 M-2 general            C            P                       P
  manufacturing
 M-3 special            C            P                       P
  manufacturing
Special:   
 I-1 institutional      -            C                       P
P   Permitted as of right, subject to site plan review (section
12-3-2, "Site Plan Review", of this title). 1, 2
C   Conditionally allowed, subject to a conditional use permit (section
12-3-4, "Conditional Uses", of this title). 1, 2
 
Note:
   1.   The Zoning Administrator may administratively approve modifications to
existing mobile radio service facilities with an approved conditional use
permit that qualify as "eligible facilities requests" and do not result in a
substantial change to the dimensions of the tower or base station, pursuant to,
and in accordance with, the Spectrum Act, see Section 6409a of the Middle Class
Tax Relief and Job Creation Act, USCS § 1455.
   2.   Modifications to existing mobile radio service facilities permitted as
of right that qualify as "eligible facilities requests" and do not result in a
substantial change to the dimensions of the tower or base station, pursuant to
and in accordance with, the Spectrum Act, see Section 6409a of the Middle Class
Tax Relief and Job Creation Act, USCS § 1455, are not required to obtain site
plan approval.
(Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998; amd. Ord. Z-38-22, 12-29-2022; Ord. Z-8-23, 5-1-2023)
12-8-6: BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS:
Bed and breakfast establishments may be allowed in the R-2 two- family
residential district, the R-3 townhouse residential district, the R-4 central
core residential district and the C-1 neighborhood shopping district provided
they meet the following requirements:
   A.   Procedural Standards:
      1.   Bed and breakfast establishments shall only be located within and
accessory to an owner occupied single-family detached home.
      2.   Operation of a bed and breakfast establishment shall not commence
until the approval of a conditional use permit subject to the requirements of
section
12-3-4, "Conditional Uses", of this title. Bed and breakfast establishments
shall be bound by the standards below as well as the applicable requirements of
the zoning district in which they are located.
      3.   Bed and breakfast establishments shall comply with all local, county
and state fire and health regulations.
      4.   Proof of registration with the department of revenue for hotel/motel
taxes shall be provided to the zoning administrator within ninety (90) days
after approval of the conditional use permit.
      5.   No ancillary commercial use shall be operated in connection with an
approved bed and breakfast establishment.
      6.   The location of a bed and breakfast establishment in a residential
district shall not be considered a precedent for the granting of any
conditional use or variance for other commercial or industrial developments in
the same district.
      7.   Operation of a bed and breakfast establishment shall not be
considered, classified, or permitted as a home occupation.
   B.   Development Standards:
      1.   A bed and breakfast establishment shall include no more than four
(4) guestrooms for rent.
      2.   Accommodations shall not be provided to a particular guest for more
than ten (10) consecutive days.
      3.   Each bed and breakfast establishment may display one nonilluminated
wall sign per street frontage, a size no more than four (4) square feet. (Ord.
Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-8-7: CHILDCARE CENTERS AND ADULT DAY SERVICE CENTERS:
   A.   Compliance with Laws: Childcare centers and adult day service centers
must comply with all local, county, state, and federal requirements, rules,
regulations, including, without limitation, certification, licensing, health,
life safety, and building code requirements.
   B.   Childcare Centers:
      1.   In no case may the lot size or required frontage be less than that
required by the zoning district in which the facility is to be located.
      2.   Front, rear, and side yard setbacks shall be the same as for other
uses permitted in the district. Additionally, no equipment may be affixed to
the land within such side yards.
      3.   There shall be a minimum of thirty five (35) square feet of indoor
activity area per child within the structure. Areas for administrative use,
bathrooms, hallways, storage and kitchen areas, shall not be counted in
calculating this requirement.
      4.   There shall be a minimum of seventy five (75) square feet of outdoor
activity area per child that could be expected to be outdoors at any one time.
Such activity area or portions thereof shall be enclosed by a fence meeting all
the requirements of the city code. Up to twenty five percent (25%) of this
requirement may be waived by the planning and zoning board upon a finding that:
         a.   A park or similar permanent open space, suitable for supervised
outdoor play, is located within five hundred feet (500') of the proposed
facility;
         b.   The park or similar permanent open space, suitable for supervised
outdoor play, is one acre (43,560 square feet) or larger; and
         c.   The park or similar permanent open space, suitable for supervised
outdoor play, is accessible from the proposed daycare/childcare facility
location without crossing any street.
      5.   Hours of normal operation shall be limited to six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
   C.   Adult Day Service Centers
      1.   In no case may the lot size or required frontage be less than that
required by the zoning district in which the facility is to be located.
      2.   Front, rear, and side yard setbacks shall be the same as for other
uses permitted in the district. Additionally, no equipment may be affixed to
the land within such side yards.
      3.   Hours of normal operation shall be limited to six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998; amd. Ord. Z-14-15,
7-6-2015; Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015; Ord. Z-6-22, 4-4-2022)
12-8-8: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
All home occupations shall comply with each of the following requirements:
   A.   The operator of a home occupation shall reside in the dwelling unit in
which the home occupation operates.
   B.   The home occupation shall be conducted entirely within the principal
dwelling or accessory structures.
   C.   The home occupation shall not interfere with the delivery of utilities
or other services to neighboring properties.
   D.   The home occupation shall not generate any noise, vibrations, smoke,
dust, odors, heat, glare, or interference with radio or television reception in
the area that would exceed that normally produced by a dwelling unit used
solely for residential purposes.
   E.   No toxic, explosive, flammable, radioactive, or other hazardous
materials shall be used, sold, or stored on the site. However, such materials
common to ordinary household use are permitted, provided the quantity of such
materials does not exceed that found in ordinary household use.
   F.   There shall be no alteration to the residential appearance of the
premises.
   G.   No more than one motor vehicle shall be used in connection with a home
occupation. The home occupation vehicle must be of a type ordinarily used for
conventional private passenger transportation, i.e., passenger automobile, van,
limousine and pickup trucks not exceeding a payload capacity of one ton.
Further, the home occupation vehicle shall not be a vehicle designed for
carrying more than twelve (12) persons. Vehicles designed or used for living
quarters shall not be used in conjunction with a home occupation.
   H.   No visitors in conjunction with the home occupation (clients, patrons,
pupils, salespersons, etc.) shall be permitted between the hours of nine
o'clock (9:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
   I.   No outdoor display or storage of materials, goods, supplies, or
equipment shall be permitted.
   J.   There shall be no advertising, signs, display, or other indications of
a home occupation in any yard, on the exterior of the dwelling unit or visible
from anywhere outside of the dwelling unit.
   K.   Direct sales or rentals of products are not permitted. Mail or phone
sales is a permitted home occupation.
   L.   The total interior floor area used for the home occupation shall not
exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the total interior floor area of the dwelling,
provided that in no case shall the area of a home occupation exceed three
hundred (300) square feet per home occupation.
   M.   Only one person may be employed on the site in connection with the home
occupation who is not an actual resident of the dwelling unit.
   N.   Deliveries shall not restrict or obstruct traffic circulation and may
occur only between nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M. Monday
through Friday.
   O.   The home occupation shall not cause a significant increase in the
amount of traffic or parking on any residential street. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-
1998)
   P.   More than one home occupation may be permitted within an individual
dwelling unit, provided all other standards and criteria applicable to home
occupations are complied with. Such criteria shall be applied cumulatively to
both uses as opposed to singularly to each use. (For example, cumulatively all
home occupations within the same dwelling unit may not occupy more than 30
percent or 600 square feet of the dwelling unit.) (Ord. Z-14-15, 7-6-2015)
12-8-9: CHILD HOME CARE:
Child home care shall be considered a home occupation and shall be subject to
the requirements for home occupations found in section
12-8-8, "Home Occupations", of this chapter, and the additional requirements
contained herein. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
   A.   The maximum number of children permitted shall be eight (8). (Ord. Z-2-
05, 2-7-2005)
   B.   A child home care use must comply with all applicable local, state and
federal statutes and regulations, including licensing requirements.
   C.   A child home care use must obtain a zoning certificate pursuant to
section
12-3-3, "Zoning Certificates", of this title. Proof of a state license shall be
required for the granting of the zoning certificate.
   D.   A child home care use shall be operated by a resident of the dwelling
in which it is located.
   E.   Any child home care use shall include an outdoor play area which shall
be enclosed on all sides by a barrier in the form of a fence, building wall, or
other structure or landscaping so as to provide for safe outdoor play.
   F.   No signs shall be displayed. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-8-10: RESIDENTIAL CARE HOMES:
Residential care homes shall be divided into two (2) classes, small residential
care homes and large residential care homes.
   A.   Small Residential Care Homes: A small residential care home shall be
considered a home providing care for five (5) or fewer persons, exclusive of
staff, who require assistance and/or supervision and who reside together in a
family type environment as a single housekeeping unit.
   B.   Large Residential Care Homes: A large residential care home shall be
considered a home providing care for six (6) to ten (10) persons, exclusive of
staff, who require assistance and/or supervision and who reside together in a
family type environment as a single housekeeping unit.
   C.   General Requirements For Residential Care Homes: Every residential care
home, regardless of class shall meet the following requirements:
      1.   Every residential care home shall be located at least one thousand
feet (1,000') from another residential care home, regardless of class, unless
the city council determines that the cumulative effect of such uses would not:
         a.   Alter the residential character of the neighborhood,
         b.   Create an institutional setting, and its operation, and
         c.   Create an adverse effect on surrounding properties.
      2.   Each residential care home, prior to admitting residents, shall have
proof of compliance with all applicable local and state licensing and code
standards, including a state license or certification. Each home shall also
have proof that the sponsoring agency is duly licensed or certified by the
state of Illinois.
      3.   Each residential care home, to the extent possible, shall conform to
the type and outward appearances of the residences in the area in which it is
located.
      4.   Prior to occupancy, a zoning certificate shall be applied for and
issued pursuant to section
12-3-3, "Zoning Certificates", of this title.
      5.   The applicant for the zoning certificate shall submit a statement of
the exact nature of the residential care home, the qualifications of the agency
that will operate the residential care home, the number and the type of
personnel who will be employed, and the number and nature of the residents who
will live in the residential care home. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-8-11: TEMPORARY USES:
   A.   Authorization: Subject to the general regulations set forth herein, the
specific regulations and time limits set forth for each temporary use, and all
other applicable regulations of the district in which the temporary use is
located, the temporary uses set forth below, and no others, shall be permitted
in the zoning districts.
   B.   General Regulations:
      1.   No temporary use shall be permitted in any district if it would have
a significant negative impact, including aesthetic impact, on any adjacent
property or on the area, as a whole, in which it is located.
      2.   No temporary use shall be permitted that causes or threatens to
cause an on site or off site threat to the public safety.
      3.   No temporary use shall be permitted if the additional vehicular
traffic reasonably expected to be generated by such temporary use would have
undue detrimental effects on surrounding streets and uses.
      4.   No temporary use shall be permitted if such use would conflict with
another previously authorized temporary use.
      5.   Signs shall be permitted only in accordance with the provisions of
chapter 11, "Signs", of this title.
      6.   Except as expressly provided otherwise, every temporary use shall
comply with the regulations applicable in the district in which such temporary
use is located.
      7.   Every temporary use shall comply with any such other conditions as
may be imposed by the zoning administrator designed to be reasonably necessary
to achieve the purposes of this title or to protect the public health, safety,
and welfare.
   C.   Temporary Uses Permitted:
      1.   Vendors' Carts And Stalls: In any commercial district, vendors'
carts and stalls may be permitted provided that the cart or stall is accessory
and adjacent to a use in a commercial district. Each cart or stall shall be
located between the principal building and a public right of way and may not
block a driveway or other point of emergency vehicular access to any property.
      2.   House, Apartment, Garage, And Yard Sales: In any residential
district, house, apartments, garage and yard sales may be permitted but only
when limited to the personal possessions of the owner-occupant of the dwelling
unit at which such sale is being conducted. Such use shall be limited to a
period not to exceed three (3) consecutive days, and no more than four (4) such
sales shall be conducted from the same residence in any twelve (12) month
period.
      3.   Christmas Tree Sales: In any district other than a residential
district, Christmas tree sales may be permitted provided, however, any such use
shall require the specific prior approval of the zoning administrator on the
basis of the adequacy of the parcel size, parking provisions, and traffic
access and the absence of undue adverse impact on other properties. Such use
shall be limited to a period not to exceed forty five (45) days. Trees
remaining on hand after December 25 shall be removed from the premises no later
than December 31 of the same year.
      4.   Temporary Contractors' Offices And Equipment Sheds: In any district,
temporary contractors' offices and equipment sheds may be permitted when
accessory to a construction project. No such use shall contain any sleeping or
cooking accommodations. Such use shall be limited to a period not to exceed the
duration of the active construction phase of such project.
      5.   Real Estate Offices, Including Model Units: In any district, real
estate offices, including model units may be permitted when accessory to a new
development. No such use shall contain any sleeping or cooking accommodations
unless located in a model dwelling unit. Such use shall be limited to the
period of the active selling or leasing of units or space in such development
and to activities related to the development in which such office is located.
No such office shall be used as the general office or headquarters of any firm.
      6.   Indoor And Outdoor Art, Craft, And Plant Shows, Exhibits, And Sales:
In any district other than a residential district, indoor and outdoor art,
craft and plant shows, exhibits and sales may be permitted provided, however,
that any such use shall require the specific prior approval of the zoning
administrator on the basis of the adequacy of the parcel size, parking
provisions, and traffic access and the absence of undue adverse impact on other
properties. Every such sale shall be limited to a period not to exceed three
(3) days.
      7.   Farm Product Sales: In any nonresidential district, farm product
sales may be permitted but only in accordance with the following provisions:
         a.   Open Air Market: Such farm product sale shall use no permanent
structures.
         b.   Goods Or Wares Limited: No product may be exhibited or offered
for sale except the following:
            (1)    Fresh (never having been frozen or packaged), dairy goods,
fruits, vegetables, juices, flowers, plants, herbs, and spices produced or
grown by the vendor; and
            (2)    Baked goods made by the vendor.
         c.   Number And Duration Of Sales Limited: Not more than one such farm
product sale shall be conducted on the same premises in any seven (7) day
period. Every such sale shall be limited to a period not to exceed eight (8)
consecutive hours. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
      8.   Carnivals And Circuses: In any district, carnivals and circuses may
be permitted but only when sponsored by a not for profit religious,
philanthropic, or civic group or organization; provided, however, that any such
use shall require the specific prior approval of the zoning administrator on
the basis of the adequacy of the parcel size, parking provisions, and traffic
access and the absence of undue adverse impact, including noise, on other
properties. Such use shall be limited to a period not to exceed five (5) days
in any residential district or on any lot abutting any one of these districts
or ten (10) days on any other lot. No such use shall be permitted to operate
after eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. or such other time as may be established by
the zoning administrator. The concessionaire responsible for the operation of
any such use shall:
         a.   Submit in advance of the event date a site layout displaying
adequate ingress and egress routes for emergency vehicles and no dead end
aisles; and
         b.   Provide fire extinguishers of a type and at site locations
approved by the zoning administrator; and
         c.   Provide and service refuse containers in the number and locations
required by the zoning administrator; and
         d.   Provide for a thorough cleanup of the site upon termination of
the event; and
         e.   Upon written notice from the zoning administrator, immediately
terminate the use of any amusement device or structure found by the zoning
administrator to pose a threat to the public safety. (Ord. Z-12-12, 5-21-2012)
      9.   Sidewalk Sales: In any commercial district, sidewalk sales may be
permitted when organized as an area wide sidewalk sale with all merchants on
all abutting lots zoned in the same district, but no more than four (4) such
sales shall be permitted in any twelve (12) month period and no such sale shall
be permitted for a period in excess of two (2) successive days.
      10.   Tents: In any district, tents may be permitted in connection with
any permitted, accessory, temporary, or conditional use. All tents shall be
constructed of fire retardant material and erected securely. Guywires, stakes,
or other supports shall be clearly marked and secured. No tent shall be allowed
to remain for a period of more than two (2) days longer than the period during
which the use with which it is associated is allowed to remain or, in the
absence of any such period, ten (10) days. Unless waived by the zoning
administrator, every tent shall comply with the bulk, yard, and space
requirements applicable to district in which it is located. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-
1998)
      11.   Storage Containers: In any residential district, storage
containers, including dumpsters, modular storage devices, and other containers
designed to be delivered to a location for temporary outdoor storage of waste
or personal property and to be subsequently removed for disposal or storage at
another location, may be delivered to and used on any zoning lot, subject to
the following conditions and restrictions:
         a.   Each storage container must be removed and carried away not more
than thirty (30) days after the date that it is delivered to the zoning lot,
unless the director of community and economic development authorizes a longer
period as a condition of a building permit issued for work to be performed on
the zoning lot;
         b.   Each storage container must be delivered to a location on the
zoning lot improved with a hard paved surface or a similar surface acceptable
to the director of community development;
         c.   Not more than one storage container may be left on a single
zoning lot at any one time, unless the director of community and economic
development authorizes a greater number of storage containers as a condition of
a building permit issued for work to be performed on the zoning lot; and
         d.   Storage containers may not encroach on any public right of way or
other public property, including, without limitation, any public alley, street,
sidewalk, or curb.
      12.   Temporary Classroom Structures: In any district on zoning lots
where the principal use is a public or private elementary, middle, or high
school, a temporary classroom structure may be installed, subject to the
following conditions and restrictions:
         a.   A zoning certificate issued by the City authorizing the temporary
use of a temporary classroom structure must be obtained prior to the
construction and/or placing of a temporary classroom structure on an eligible
zoning lot.
         b.   All building permits required by State law must be obtained prior
to constructing and/or placing a temporary classroom structure on an eligible
zoning lot.
         c.   Each temporary classroom structure must be removed within 12
months after the date it is constructed or placed on an eligible zoning lot;
provided, however, the director of community and economic development may
authorize the temporary classroom structure to remain on the zoning lot for a
longer duration if necessary due to a construction project on the zoning lot
that is being diligently pursued to completion.
         d.   Each temporary classroom structure must be installed in a
location on the zoning lot improved with a dust-free hard paved surface or a
similar surface acceptable to the director of community and economic
development, but shall not reduce, block, or otherwise interfere with parking
lot drive aisles, or reduce the number of off-street parking spaces below the
minimum number required by this code.
         e.   Not more than two temporary classroom structures may be placed on
a single zoning lot at any one time, unless the director of community and
economic development authorizes a greater number of temporary classroom
structures if necessary due to a construction project on the zoning lot that is
being diligently pursued to completion.
         f.   The total combined area of temporary classroom structure(s) on a
single lot may not exceed five percent of the gross floor area of the school
building footprint.
         g.   Temporary classroom structures may not encroach on any public
right of way or utility easement, including, without limitation, any public
alley, street, sidewalk, or curb.
         h.   Temporary classroom structures may not exceed 15 feet in height
as measured from grade to the highest point of the roofline.
      13.   Temporary Commercial Mobile Radio and Wireless Telecommunications
Service Facilities:
         a.   Eligible Circumstances: The installation and use of one temporary
commercial mobile radio and wireless telecommunications service facility is
permitted only (i) on the same zoning lot where a lawfully established existing
permanent commercial mobile radio and wireless telecommunications facility is
located; (ii) where there is an additional, separate primary principal use; and
(iii) when the temporary facility is necessary in order to maintain continuous
operation and mobile radio and wireless telecommunications service during an
active construction or maintenance project on the lot.
         b.   Certificate and Building Permit Required:
            (1)   A zoning certificate issued by the City authorizing the
temporary facility must be obtained prior to the construction or installation
of a commercial mobile radio and wireless telecommunications service of a
facility on an eligible zoning lot. The application for the zoning certificate
must include a statement, signed by the applicant, acknowledging and agreeing
to comply the regulations set forth in this Section
12-8-11.C.13 and agreeing to immediately remove and cease operating the
temporary facility upon written notice from the City of any violation of these
regulations.
            (2)   All required building permits must be obtained prior to
constructing or installing a temporary commercial mobile radio and wireless
telecommunications service facility on an eligible zoning lot.
         c.   Duration: A temporary commercial mobile radio and wireless
telecommunications service facility may be located on an eligible zoning lot
for a maximum of three months, which period shall begin upon the final
inspection and approval of the installation by the City Building Division. The
temporary facility must be removed in its entirety by the end of the three-
month period. The zoning administrator may grant one extension of no more than
three months in order to allow the maintenance or construction project that
necessitated the installation of the temporary installation to be diligently
pursued to completion. Under no circumstances will a temporary commercial
mobile radio and wireless telecommunications service facility be allowed to be
installed for more than six months.
         d.   Location: A temporary commercial mobile radio and wireless
telecommunications service facility must be positioned as close to the location
of the permanent commercial mobile radio and wireless telecommunications
service facility as possible.
         e.   Construction Requirements: A temporary commercial mobile radio
and wireless telecommunications service facility must meet all of the
requirements set forth in this subsection E of Section
12-8-5:
            (1)   A freestanding temporary commercial mobile radio and wireless
telecommunications service facility may not exceed one hundred twenty five feet
(125') in height; and
            (2)   A freestanding temporary commercial mobile radio and wireless
telecommunications service facility may be located only on a zoning lot with a
non-residential principal use.
         f.   Enforcement; Fines:
            (1)   Violations: Except as otherwise provided in this Section, any
violation of the provisions of this Section
12-8-11.C.13 will be enforced in accordance with Chapter 4 of this Code.
            (2)   Fines: Any person convicted of violating this Section
12-8-11.C.13 will be subject to a fine of one thousand five hundred dollars
($1,500.00) per offense. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist after
notice of the violation constitutes a separate offense. (Ord. M-7-16, 3-7-2016;
amd. Ord. Z-24-22, 8-1-2022; Ord. Z-8-23, 5-1-2023)
12-8-12: CONSUMER LENDER:
   A.   Preexisting Consumer Lender Uses:
      1.   All consumer lenders lawfully operating at locations within the C-
3 general commercial district on or before February 4, 2014, being the
effective date of this subsection A, shall be deemed to be conditional uses and
shall be allowed to operate at those same locations after such effective date
as lawful conditional uses. (Ord. Z-3-14, 2-3-2014)
      2.   The owner of any use or structure who, within one year prior to
January 13, 2014, being the date of the public hearing at which this section
was first considered by the planning and zoning board, had submitted a
completed application for a zoning certificate to operate a consumer lender at
a location within the C-3 general commercial district shall be deemed to be a
conditional use and shall be allowed to operate at that same location after
such effective date as a lawful conditional use. (Ord. Z-3-14, 2-3-2014; amd.
Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
      3.   All consumer lenders lawfully operating at locations within zoning
districts other than the C-3 general commercial district prior to February 4,
2014, being the effective date of this subsection A, shall be subject to
chapter 5 of this title relating to nonconforming uses and structures.
      4.   On or before August 3, 2014, being one hundred eighty (180) days
after the effective date of this subsection A, and at all times thereafter, all
consumer lenders operating in the city shall be in compliance with the
performance standards applicable to consumer lenders set forth in subsection B
of this section.
   B.   Performance Standards: In addition to all other applicable requirements
of this zoning ordinance and the city code of the city of Des Plaines, all
consumer lenders shall comply with the following performance standards:
      1.   Windows shall not be obscured in any manner, including, without
limitation, by the placement of signs, dark window tinting, shelving, racks or
similar obstructions.
      2.   Exterior phones, security bars and roll up doors are prohibited.
      3.   Interior and exterior video security cameras shall be installed in
such a manner to record a full view of all entrances, exits, and parking areas
on the premises and to the satisfaction of the chief of police and the director
of community and economic development. Such cameras shall continuously record
these locations every day of the year and twenty four (24) hours of each day.
Consumer lenders shall store and preserve all video recordings for not less
than thirty (30) days after the recordings were made.
      4.   Consumer lenders shall make live video feeds and all stored and
preserved video recorded by the security cameras described in subsection B3 of
this section accessible to the police department by furnishing the police
department with a public internet protocol (IP) address and user name and
password that will allow the police department to view at any time such live
video feeds and stored video.
      5.   A sign shall be posted in a prominent location on the premises that
states:
This area is under live/recorded video surveillance to aid in the prosecution
of any crimes committed against this facility or its patrons.
      6.   The director of community and economic development shall review the
adequacy of lighting, security, and video surveillance installations with
assistance from the chief of police.
      7.   Consumer lenders shall not operate earlier than eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. or later than eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. on any day.
      8.   All signage on the buildings, or any portion thereof, occupied by
consumer lenders shall comply with chapter 11 of this title. All nonconforming
signs shall be removed from such buildings, or any portion thereof.
      9.   Parking lot lighting shall comply with the requirements of
subsection
12-9-6G and section
12-12-10 of this title. (Ord. Z-3-14, 2-3-2014)
12-8-13: CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Signage:
      1.   Signage for any cannabis business establishment shall be limited to
one flat wall sign not to exceed fifty (50) square feet in area or the maximum
allowable sign area as calculated in chapter 11 of this title, whichever is
less, and one identification sign, which may include only the name and address
of the business and may not exceed two (2) square feet in area; such signs may
not be directly illuminated. Mandatory signage required by state or federal law
will be permitted notwithstanding the requirements of this subsection A or
chapter 11 of this title.
      2.   Electronic message boards and temporary signs, including window
signs, are not permitted in connection with a cannabis business establishment.
      3.   Signage may not contain cannabis imagery such as cannabis leaves,
plants, smoke, paraphernalia, or cartoonish imagery oriented toward youth, or
any language referencing cannabis, marijuana, or other common colloquial terms
for cannabis.
   B.   Lighting: Parking lot lighting for all cannabis business establishments
must comply with the requirements of subsection
12-9-6G and section
12-12-10 of this title.
   C.   Hours of Operation: No cannabis dispensing organization may operate
outside the hours of 10 am to 8 pm, Sunday through Saturday. No sale of
cannabis may take place after 8 pm on any day.
   D.   Miscellaneous Operational Regulations:
      1.   No products containing cannabis may be consumed or sampled on the
premises of any cannabis business establishment, including in any outdoor
parking area accessory to or used by the cannabis business establishment.
      2.   Delivery of cannabis products to consumers at any location outside
of a licensed cannabis business establishment is expressly prohibited.
      3.   Interior lighting, video surveillance, security, and inventory
control systems shall comply with all requirements of the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act and the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, as the
same may be amended from time to time, as well as all state regulations
promulgated pursuant to those Acts.
      4.   Seismic and sonic detectors shall be installed and maintained on all
roofs and walls that contain a cannabis business establishment.
      5.   All odors generated by cannabis business establishments must comply
with chapter 12 of this title. Each conditional use issued for a cannabis
business establishment shall provide the Director of Community and Economic
Development with the authority to make periodic inspections of the premises to
determine if additional odor mitigation measures shall be required to ensure
compliance with chapter 12 of this title. (Ord. Z-31-19, 12-2-2019)
12-8-14: ARBOR AND TRELLIS REGULATIONS:
   A.   Arbor: Arbors must comply with the following standards and, if located
within a required yard, must also comply with the regulations set forth in
Section
12-7-1.C:
      1.   Size:
         a.   Height: Arbors may not exceed 8 feet in height as measured from
the immediately adjacent grade to the highest point of the arbor.
         b.   Width: Arbors may not exceed 8 feet in width as measured from one
side of the arbor to the other; provided; however, that the “doorway” opening
between the two sides of the arbor must be at least 24 inches wide or 50% of
the total width of the arbor, whichever is greater.
         c.   Depth: Arbors may not exceed 3 feet in depth.
      2.   Material: Arbors must be constructed of wood, brick, stone, wrought
iron, vinyl, or similar decorative material.
      3.   Quantity: No more than two arbors are allowed on a residential
zoning lot.
      4.   Separation: With the exception of fences, arbors may not be attached
to or located less than 1 foot from other structures including but not limited
to trellises and other arbors.
   B.   Trellis:
      1.   Size:
         a.   Height: Trellises may not exceed 8 feet in height as measured
from the immediately adjacent grade to the highest point of the trellis;
provided, however, the regulations set forth in Section
12-7-1.C. shall govern trellises located within a required yard.
         b.   Width: Trellises may not exceed 8 feet in width as measured from
one side of the trellis to the other.
      2.   Material: Trellises must be constructed of wood, wrought iron,
vinyl, or similar decorative material.
      3.   Separation: Trellises may not be attached to or located less than 6
feet from other trellises. (Ord. Z-6-23, 4-3-2023)
12-8-15: CONVENIENCE MART FUELING OR CHARGING STATIONS:
   A.   Parking and Loading:
      1.   Except for required spaces adjacent to fuel pumps, parking spaces
must be identified on the site plan with appropriate striping or signage.
      2.   Required off-street parking to accommodate the retail portion of the
use shall be positioned near the main entrance of the retail building.
   B.   Landscaping: Convenience Mart Fueling or Charging Stations must comply
with all applicable landscape requirements set forth in Chapter 10 of Title 12
of this Code.
   C.   Environmental Performance Standards: Convenience Mart Fueling or
Charging stations must comply with all performance standards set forth in
Chapter 12 of Title 12 of this Code, including, without limitation, that all
exterior lighting shall comply with Section
12-12-10 of this Title, unless any federal, State, County, or local ordinance,
law, or regulation establishes a more restrictive standard, in which event the
more restrictive standard applies. The Zoning Administrator may require the
submission of specifications for existing light fixtures and a photometric plan
for any new exterior lighting to demonstrate compliance with the foot-candle
limitations set forth in Section
12-12-10 of this title. If required, the photometric plan must include the full
property boundaries identified with a thick black line, all foot-candle
measurements in and around the property boundaries, and the specifications for
all light fixtures.
   D.   Signs: All signs proposed for a Convenience Mart Fueling or Charging
Station must follow the sign regulations in Section set forth in Chapter 11 of
Title 12 of this Code and be designed, positioned, and shielded to minimize
adverse effects on adjacent properties. No signs may be installed on fences,
light poles, or any other structure, surface, or object that is not part of a
permitted sign type listed in this title. (Ord. Z-17-23, 8-21-2023)
12-8-16: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
The following requirements and restrictions shall apply to all recreational
vehicles parked, kept, or otherwise stored on a residential or non-residential
zoning lot.
   A.   All Recreational Vehicles must be currently registered with the State
of Illinois and must comply with all requirements of the City Code applicable
to inoperable motor vehicles. Documentation of current registration must be
displayed in a manner visible from the exterior of the vehicle.
   B.   At no time may a Recreational Vehicle be used for living, sleeping or
other purposes associated with dwelling units. No Recreational Vehicle may be
connected to gas, water, sanitary sewer service, or septic tank.
   C.   A Recreational Vehicle may not be used as an accessory structure in any
zoning district.
   D.   District Regulations:
      1.   Residential Districts: Parking of one (1) Recreational Vehicle that
is no more than 36 feet in length shall be allowed per residential zoning lot.
      2.   Non-Residential Districts: A Recreational Vehicle in any non-
residential district may only be located in a rear yard and must be parked or
stored on a paved, dust-free hard surface; provided, however, such storage may
not reduce, block, or otherwise interfere with parking lot drive aisles and
off-street parking spaces, nor shall any Recreational Vehicle occupy any
required off-street parking spaces. This shall not apply to legally approved or
established permitted or conditional principal uses in applicable non-
residential zoning district such as commercial parking lot, commercial parking
garage, leasing/rental agents - moving vehicles, motor vehicle sales, auto body
repair, auto service repair, vehicle towing, and commercial storage.
   E.   Elimination of Nonconforming Recreational Vehicle Parking.
      1.   As of the effective date of Section
12-8-16, all nonconforming recreational vehicles must be brought into
compliance with this Section
12-8-16 no later than September 30, 2025. (Ord. Z-3-25, 3-3-2025)
CHAPTER 9
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES
SECTION:
12-9-1: Off Street Parking And Loading Required
12-9-2: General Requirements
12-9-3: Collective Parking
12-9-4: Stacking Requirements For Drive-Through Facilities
12-9-5: Computation Of Required Spaces
12-9-6: Specifications For Off Street Parking And Outside Storage Areas
12-9-7: Off Street Parking Requirements
12-9-8: Mobility Impaired Accessible Parking
12-9-9: Off Street Loading Requirements
12-9-10: Permitted Land Bank Parking
12-9-1: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIRED:
Except as provided in subsection A of this section, all uses, buildings and
structures established after the effective date hereof, shall provide accessory
parking and loading facilities in the amount and manner specified herein.
   A.   Supplemental Parking Requirements: Supplemental parking requirements
are provided for the C-5 central business district in subsection
12-7-3H of this title which shall supersede the requirements of this chapter
for the uses listed therein. In addition, no off street parking shall be
required for the first two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet of a use,
building, or structure established in the C-5 central business district. (Ord.
Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-9-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Previously Issued Building Permits: Where a building permit has been
issued prior to the effective date hereof, and construction has begun within
one year of such issuance and diligently pursued thereafter, parking and
loading facilities may be provided in the amounts required for the issuance of
the building permit regardless of any different amounts required by this title.
   B.   Change Of Use: Whenever the existing use of a building or structure
shall hereafter be changed to a new use, parking or loading facilities shall be
provided as required for such new use. However, if the building or structure
was erected prior to the effective date hereof, additional parking or loading
facilities are mandatory only in the amount by which the requirements for the
new use would exceed those for the existing use under the parking and loading
provisions of this title.
   C.   Uses Established After The Effective Date Hereof: When the intensity of
use of any building, structure or premises is increased through addition of
dwelling units, gross floor area, seating capacity, or other units of
measurement specified herein, parking and loading facilities shall be provided
for such increase in intensity of use.
   D.   Uses Established Prior To The Effective Date Hereof: No building or
structure lawfully erected or use lawfully established prior to the effective
date hereof shall be required to provide additional parking or loading
facilities unless and until the aggregate increase in units of measurement
shall equal fifteen percent (15%) of the units of measurement existing upon the
effective date hereof. Where such increase occurs, additional parking or
loading facilities shall be provided for the total increase. In the case of the
expansion or alteration of residential buildings, required parking or loading
facilities shall be provided on the basis of total required units of
measurement for the entire capacity of the building.
   E.   No Reduction Of Existing Parking And Loading Facilities: Accessory off
street parking facilities in existence on the effective date hereof and located
on the same lot as the building or use served shall not hereafter be reduced
below the requirements for this title.
   F.   Additional Parking And Loading Facilities: Nothing in this title shall
be deemed to prevent the voluntary establishment of off street parking or
loading facilities to serve any existing use or building, provided such parking
or loading facilities meet all regulations of this title governing the
location, design and operation of such facilities.
   G.   Location And Ownership Of Parking And Loading Facilities: Except as
provided in section
12-9-3, "Collective Parking", of this chapter, no parking facilities shall be
permitted on land other than the zoning lot on which the building or use served
is located.
   H.   Parking Plan Required: Any application for a building permit, or for a
certificate of occupancy where no building permit is required, shall include a
site plan, drawn to scale and fully dimensioned, showing any proposed parking
or loading facilities to be provided. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-9-3: COLLECTIVE PARKING:
   A.   Off street parking facilities for separate uses may be provided
collectively if the total number of spaces so provided collectively is not less
than the sum of the separate requirements for each such use, and provided
further, that such collective facilities meet all regulations governing
location of accessory parking spaces in relation to the use served.
   B.   The zoning administrator for permitted uses or the City Council in all
other cases may authorize up to thirty three percent (33%) of the required off
street parking to be fulfilled on a separate, privately owned zoning lot when
all of the following conditions are met:
      1.   The parking spaces utilized on the separate zoning lot are in excess
of the total requirement for all uses that occupy that lot, or the parties have
provided to the zoning administrator or City Council sufficient data to
indicate there is not a substantial conflict in the hours of operation of all
of the uses on the lot;
      2.   Any required parking spaces located on the separate zoning lot are
within 300 feet of the use served, measured from the main entrance of the use
to the nearest point of the separate zoning lot;
      3.   Pedestrian travel between the separate zoning lot and the use served
does not require at-grade crossings of roadways classified by the Illinois
Department of Transportation as arterials, except for Lee Street between Brown
Street and Thacker Street, Graceland Avenue between Jefferson Street and
Thacker Street, Miner Street between Graceland Avenue and River Road, Dempster/
Thacker Street between Wolf Road and River Road, Algonquin Road between Wolf
Road and River Road, and Oakton Street between Lee Street and River Road; and
      4.   A written agreement, in a form approved by the city attorney,
guarantees that the parking spaces on the separate zoning lot will be
maintained so long as the uses requiring parking are in existence or unless the
required parking is provided elsewhere in accordance with this chapter. The
written agreement must be recorded by the property owners with the county
recorder’s office. The agreement will be kept current and a copy maintained on
file with the City’s department of community and economic development.
   C.   The zoning administrator for permitted uses or the City Council in all
other cases may allow the off street parking requirement for any use in a non-
residential district to be met via a publicly owned or operated facility, if
the owner or operator of that use enters into an easement, lease, license or
other form of legal agreement with the government entity that owns or operates
the facility. Such parking use agreement, or a summary memorandum thereof,
shall be in a form acceptable to the City and be recorded against the property
index numbers (PINs) for the parcel on which the off street parking facility is
located and the parcel that will receive the right to use the parking spaces.
The zoning administrator shall ensure that the off street parking spaces
identified in the parking use agreement are open and available during the
periods described in the parking use agreement. Such public off street parking
facility may be located no more than 1,000 feet of the main entrance of the
parcel requesting the right to use the parking spaces. The parking use
agreement shall be kept current and a copy maintained on file with the City’s
department of community and economic development.
   D.   In instances when a principal building is not fully occupied and
contains parking spaces in excess of minimum number of spaces required by the
building’s current occupancy, the zoning administrator for permitted uses or
the City Council in all other cases may allow the owner of the parcel to enter
into an easement, lease, license or other form of legal agreement with the
owners or occupants of nearby parcels seeking to use the parcel’s excess
parking capacity, so long as the following conditions are met:
      1.   In no event may any parcel be used as a commercial parking lot open
to the general public pursuant to a parking use agreement described in this
section unless it has received all necessary approvals required by the Zoning
Ordinance.
      2.   The parking use agreement may not exceed a month to month tenancy or
use period to allow for its prompt termination in the event the parcel
providing the excess parking increases its occupancy and its corresponding need
for off street parking.
      3.   No more than 33 percent of the total parking spaces on a parcel may
be allocated for use by off-site users on a temporary basis.
      4.   The place of business or operation using the interim parking spaces
may be located no more than 1,000 feet from the parcel providing the excess
spaces.
      5.   The parking agreement shall be kept current and a copy maintained on
file with the City’s department of community and economic development. (Ord. Z-
8-98, 9-21-1998; amd. Ord. Z-3-20, 1-6-2020; Ord. Z-55-21, 12-6-2021)
12-9-4: STACKING REQUIREMENTS FOR DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITIES:
Every drive-through facility shall provide six (6) stacking spaces per
facility, plus one stacking space per waiting area provided. The stacking
spaces shall be designed so to not interfere with the ingress and egress of the
off street parking provided on the site. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-9-5: COMPUTATION OF REQUIRED SPACES:
   A.   Basis For Computation: The total number of required parking spaces
shall be based upon the parking requirement stated for the principal use of the
zoning lot in question except that where residential uses and nonresidential
uses occupy the same zoning lot, the number of parking spaces for the
residential uses shall be calculated separately from, and in addition to, the
parking requirements for the nonresidential uses.
   B.   Fractional Spaces: When determination of the number of required parking
spaces results in the requirement of a fractional space, any fraction shall
require one additional parking space.
   C.   Bench Seating: In places of assembly in which patrons or spectators
occupy benches, pews, or other similar seating facilities, each twenty two
inches (22") of such seating facility shall be counted as one seat for the
purpose of determining the requirement for off street parking facilities under
this code, except that when the structure has no design capacity the maximum
number present at any one time shall govern. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-9-6: SPECIFICATIONS FOR OFF STREET PARKING AND OUTSIDE STORAGE AREAS:
   A.   Size: The required off street parking space shall be at least eight and
one- half feet (81/2') in width and at least eighteen feet (18') in length,
exclusive of access drives or aisles, ramps, columns, or office or work areas.
Each space shall have a vertical clearance of at least seven feet (7'). Where
parallel parking spaces are permitted stall length shall be twenty four feet
(24') and aisle width shall be a minimum of twelve feet (12'). (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-
21-1998)
   B.   Access:
      1.   Each required off street parking space shall open directly upon an
aisle or driveway in such a width and design as set forth below to provide safe
and efficient means of vehicular access to such parking space. The full width
of an alley, but no portion of a street, may be used in computing such aisle or
access area. All off street parking facilities shall be designed with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley.
FIGURE 1
PARKING LOT LAYOUT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d78c7c9594b077eb00c7309e1fa31ba5392692c0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2430.png]
 
Parking Space Dimensions
Angle Curb Length Stall Width Stall Depth Travel Lane Width: Travel Lane Width:
                                          One-Way            Two-Way
0°   20'         7'          -           12'                20'
45°  12'         8.5'        17'         12'                20'
60°  10'         8.5'        18'         18'                20'
90°  9'          8.5'        18' 1       22'                22'
 
Note:
      1.   Stall depth may be reduced 2 feet when stall directly abuts a curbed
landscape area that includes an additional area beyond the minimum width,
permitting the overhang of the adjacent parked vehicle's front bumper.
(Ord. Z-14-15, 7-6-2015)
      2.   In the R-3 and R-4 districts, those at grade or underground parking
spaces located partially or wholly under the side of a building facing a public
street may be served by no more than one driveway eighteen feet (18') wide at
any point between the curb and the face of the building.
      3.    The following provisions apply to driveways located within the R-
1 and R-2 districts and lots in any other zoning district that is improved with
a lawfully established single-family detached dwelling:
         a.   A maximum of one driveway is allowed per zoning lot, and a
maximum of one curb cut is allowed per driveway. An entrance off of a public
alley will be considered one curb cut for the purposes of this section.
Properties with a single-family detached dwelling that contain two or more
lawfully established curb cuts as of January 6, 2020 will be allowed to
maintain the existing driveway/s, but will not be allowed to expand such
driveway/s.
         b.   Subject to subsections B3d and B3e of this section, the maximum
width of each driveway shall be as follows:
            (1)   For properties improved with a single-family detached
dwelling and a single-car wide garage or carport (either detached or attached),
the maximum driveway width is 20 feet.
            (2)   For properties improved with a single-family detached
dwelling and a two-car wide garage or carport (either detached or attached),
the maximum driveway width is 23 feet.
            (3)   For properties improved with a single-family detached
dwelling and a three-car wide garage or carport (either detached or attached),
the maximum driveway width is 26 feet.
            (4)   A property improved with a single-family detached dwelling
and no garage or carport will be allowed a maximum driveway width of 20 feet,
provided, however, the driveway must meet the following standards:
               (A)   The total length of the driveway measured from the
property line shall not exceed 40 feet and shall contain evergreen shrubs not
exceeding three feet in height along the entire exterior edge of the driveway.
               (B)   The driveway meets the setback required by subsection
B.3.h of this section.
            (5)   In instances when an existing garage or carport is removed
and the driveway dimensions do not comply with subsection B.3.b.4 of this
section, the driveway shall be modified concurrent with the removal of the
garage or carport so that its dimensions comply with subsection B.3.b.4 of this
section.
         c.   Driveways shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') in width, except
where restricted between structures and property lines.
         d.   Through driveways prohibited. No driveway on a residentially
zoned lot shall be permitted to connect with both a roadway and a public alley.
         e.   In accordance with section
12-8-2 of this code, no fence or any other type of raised barrier shall be
installed either on or near a property line within a driveway shared by
abutting properties.
         f.   Driveways shall have an apron that has the same width at the
property line as the width of the driveway at the property line and that is
straight-flared to the back of the street curb 36 inches on each side of the
width of the apron at the property line.
         g.   Except for the restrictions set forth in subsection B.3.b.5 of
this section, none of the restrictions of this section shall prevent the
replacement of a legal nonconforming driveway with a new legal nonconforming
driveway of the same dimensions and in the same location as the prior legal
nonconforming driveway.
         h.   Driveways are permitted within all required yards, but shall be
no closer than two feet from a lot line, unless the driveway is shared or
requires access through that lot line. This requirement may be altered by the
zoning administrator pursuant to Section
12-3-6, “Variations.”
         i.   No part of any driveway shall be closer than three feet from the
centerline of a hydrant, light standards, traffic signal, utility pole, or
other similar facility that affects traffic operation and regulations.
         j.   No rocks, gravel or stone mulch shall abut any portion of the
driveway.
         k.   Driveway materials. All driveway areas shall be improved with a
dust-free hard surface such as concrete, brick pavers, asphalt or other similar
material approved by the zoning administrator. Rocks, gravel or stone mulch
materials used for any parking or storage area is strictly prohibited.
         l.   Driveway apron materials. Driveway apron materials shall follow
approved engineering standards. Any approved alternative material shall require
an executed license agreement between the city and the subject property owner.
   C.   Location: Off street parking spaces may be provided on surface lots,
underground, under a building, or in parking structures. Off street parking
spaces may be located in any required yard, except in the R-1 single-family
residential district and the R-4 central core residential district where no
parking spaces shall be located in any required front yard. This provision
shall not be interpreted to prevent the parking of vehicles on driveways which
may cross through a required front yard in those districts.
   D.   Surfacing And Striping: All off street parking areas, including around
the perimeter and interior landscaped islands, and access driveways, shall be
fully improved with a hard surface pavement (consisting of a continuous
combination concrete curb and gutter, type B-6.12 as specified in Illinois
department of transportation, bureau of design, highway standard 2130) as
required by the city building code. The curb and gutter shall be located a
minimum of three and one-half feet (31/2') from any adjacent property line or
right of way line. Striping of the surface to define each parking space shall
be provided and visible at all times. Upon a change in occupancy of any unit
within or the transfer of ownership of a non-residentially zoned property, all
outside storage areas located on the property shall be modified to meet the
following standards: (i) the design and maintenance of the outside storage area
must allow for adequate ingress and egress; and (ii) the outside storage area
must be fully improved with a hard surface pavement (consisting of a continuous
combination concrete curb and gutter located a minimum of three and one-half
feet from any adjacent property line or right of way line). No certificate of
occupancy will be issued by the city until the outside storage areas comply
with this subsection D of this section.
   E.    Electric vehicle charging spaces: Electric vehicle charging spaces are
subject to the same dimension and setback requirements as all other parking
spaces; provided, however, that mobility impaired accessible parking spaces
have priority over electric vehicle charging spaces in proximity and accessible
routes to building entrances. A mobility impaired accessible parking space may
also serve as an electric vehicle charging space; provided, however, that the
minimum number of mobility-impaired parking spaces for the facility must first
be met by non-charging spaces.
The following specifications shall apply to electric vehicle charging spaces:
      1.   Electric vehicle charging spaces must be striped with a symbol and
lettering to indicate their reservation for charging, and may have a sign not
to exceed 1.5 square feet in area designating such reservation mounted to a
wall or freestanding post. An electric vehicle charging space that is also a
mobility impaired accessible space must fully comply with the specification
requirements for accessible spaces.
      2.   Electric vehicle supply equipment may be located adjacent to the
electric vehicle charging spaces. Charging ports shall not exceed eight feet in
height.
      3.   Signage embedded within charging ports is subject to the sign
regulations of this title.
      4.   The installation of electric vehicle supply equipment shall not
exempt the parking facility from minimum interior and perimeter landscaping
requirements of this title.
   F.   Landscaping: For all parking areas, regardless of size, a five foot
(5') landscaped divider strip shall be placed between all public sidewalks and
parking areas. Additional landscape requirements for off street parking and off
street loading areas are provided in chapter 10, “Landscaping And Screening”,
of this title.
   G.   Illumination: All off street parking lots or parking structures shall
provide lighting. The level of illumination at any point in the parking lot or
structure shall not be less than one foot-candle measured at the pavement. All
lighting used shall be shielded or otherwise optically controlled so to provide
glareless illumination in a manner that does not create a nuisance on adjacent
property. The parking lot light fixtures shall not exceed 30 feet in height
from established grade or 20 feet from the top level of the parking structure
to which the fixture is attached. All parking lot light fixtures attached to
the ground shall be setback at least three feet from all property lines.
   H.   Use: No motor vehicle repair work shall be permitted in conjunction
with or upon open parking facilities.
   I.   Signs For Multi-Family Buildings: For all multi-family structures in R-
4 central core residential, and C-5 central business districts with twenty (20)
or more units, a directional sign shall be posted for the purpose alerting the
public to the availability of guest parking. The sign shall be no larger than
two feet by two feet (2' x 2') and located within ten feet (10') of the
driveway or alley which leads to the visitor parking area. The signs must be
made of permanent materials (finished wood and/or metal) and complement the
building and grounds. Existing buildings on the date of adoption hereof are
exempted from the signage requirements. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998; amd. Ord. Z-8-
14, 4-7-2014; Ord. Z-14-15, 7-6-2015; Ord. Z-3-20, 1-6-2020 ; Ord. Z-55-21, 12-
6-2021; Ord. Z-20-22, 8-1-2022 )
12-9-7: OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
The parking and loading requirements applicable in each district are set forth
below:
Assembly uses:                              
Assembly uses shall have the following
parking requirements applied in each
specific use within the zoning lot. If the  
use is not listed below, then refer to the
regulations from other portions of the off
street parking requirement matrix:
Community centers, banquet halls and       1 space for every 200 square feet of gross activity area
membership organizations
                                           1 space for every 5 seats in the main auditorium, sanctuary, nave or similar
                                           place of assembly and other rooms (gymnasiums, classrooms, offices) which are to
Places of worship and commercial theaters  be occupied simultaneously
                                           In cases where there is no affixed seating, 1 space shall be provided for every
                                           60 square feet of floor area
Residential uses:
Dwellings, single-family detached          2 spaces per dwelling unit
Efficiency and one-bedroom units in the R- 1 space per dwelling unit
4, C-5 and C-3 Mixed-Use PUD lots1   
One-bedroom plus den and two-bedroom units
in the R-4, C-5 and applicably zoned C-    1.5 spaces per dwelling unit
3 Mixed-Use PUD lots1
Multi-Family dwelling units with three or
more bedrooms in the R-4 and C-3 Mixed-Use 2.25 spaces per dwelling unit
PUD lots1
Two-family; and townhouses (single- family 2 spaces per dwelling unit plus one common guest space for every four dwelling
attached)                                  units
Dwellings, multiple-family in all
districts approved for such use, except    2 spaces per dwelling unit
the R-4, C-5, and C-3 Mixed-Use PUD lots1
Mobile homes                               1.5 spaces per dwelling unit
Institutional uses:
Adult day service center                   1 space for every 15 children or adults under care, plus 1 space for every
                                           employee
Assisted living facilities                 1 space for each 5 beds, plus 2 spaces for every 3 employees
Auditorium, when accessory to a school or  1 space for every 5 seats
college
Childcare facilities                       1 space for every 15 children, plus 1 space for every employee
Colleges or universities                   1 space per classroom, plus 1 space for every 200 square feet devoted to
                                           offices, plus 1 space for every 8 students based on maximum enrollment
Congregate living centers                  1 space for each 3 living units, plus 2 spaces for every 3 employees
Hospital                                   1 space for every 5 beds, plus 2 spaces for every 3 employees
Schools:
Elementary                                 1 space for each classroom, plus 1 space per 200 square feet of area devoted to
                                           offices
High school                                1 space for each classroom, plus 1 space per 200 square feet of area devoted to
                                           offices, plus 1 space for every 6 students based on maximum enrollment
Cultural/entertainment uses:
Billiard halls                             2 spaces per billiard table
Bowling alleys                             4 spaces per lane, plus 1 space for every 4 seats in the lounge area
Children indoor amusement parks            1 space for every 125 square feet of gross activity area
Community or recreation buildings          1 space for every 200 square feet of gross activity area
Cultural institutions                      1 space for every 300 square feet of gross floor area
                                           1 space for every 200 square feet of gross floor area in any building, plus 1
Golf courses and driving ranges            space for every 2 practice tees in the driving range, plus 4 spaces for each
                                           green
Gymnasiums, health clubs and pools -       1 space for every 300 square feet of gross floor area
indoors
Libraries                                  1 space for every 750 square feet of gross floor area
Parks - outdoor3                           A minimum of 2 spaces, plus 1 space for every ½ acre
Taverns or clubs                           1 space for every 150 square feet of gross floor area
Commercial uses:
Automotive fuel and charging4 stations     2 spaces per pump, plus 1 space per port of electric vehicle supply equipment,
                                           plus 1 space for every 200 square feet of accessory retail
Automotive repair shops                    2 spaces per service bay, plus 1 space for every 200 square feet of accessory
                                           retail
Banks and financial institutions           1 space for every 250 square feet of gross floor area
Bed and breakfast establishments           1 space per guestroom
Body art establishments                    1 space per 250 square feet of floor area
Brewpubs:
                                           1 space for every 100 square feet of net floor area devoted to Class A
                                           restaurant use, or 1 space for every 4 seats located within the floor area
When Class A restaurant is principal use   devoted to Class A restaurant use, whichever is greater; plus 1 space for every
                                           3 employees; plus 1 space for every 1,000 square feet of gross floor area
                                           designated for brewery use
                                           1 space for every 150 square feet of net floor area devoted to tavern use; plus
When tavern is principal use               1 space for every 3 employees; plus 1 space for every 1,000 square feet of gross
                                           floor area designated for brewery use
Cannabis Business Establishments:
                                           1 space for every 1,000 square feet of gross floor area for growing, curing, and
Cannabis Craft Grower                      packaging purposes, plus one space for every 250 square feet of gross floor area
                                           dedicated to office uses, plus one space for every 1,000 square feet of gross
                                           floor area dedicated to ancillary uses
                                           1 space for every 1,000 square feet of gross floor area for growing, curing, and
Cannabis Cultivation Center                packaging purposes, plus one space for every 250 square feet of gross floor area
                                           dedicated to office uses, plus one space for every 1,000 square feet of gross
                                           floor area dedicated to ancillary uses
                                           1 space for every 200 square feet of gross floor area with public access plus
Cannabis Dispensary                        one space for every 250 square feet of gross floor area dedicated to office
                                           uses, plus one space for every 1,500 square feet of gross floor area dedicated
                                           to ancillary uses
                                           1 space for every 1,000 square feet of gross floor area for infusing and
Cannabis Infuser                           packaging purposes, plus one space for every 250 square feet of gross floor area
                                           dedicated to office uses, plus one space for every 1,000 square feet of gross
                                           floor area dedicated to ancillary uses
                                           1 space for every 1,000 square feet of gross floor area for processing and
Cannabis Processor                         packaging purposes, plus one space for every 250 square feet of gross floor area
                                           dedicated to office uses, plus one space for every 1,000 square feet of gross
                                           floor area dedicated to ancillary uses
Car washes                                 2 spaces for each self-service or manual washing rack or bay, plus 4 staging
                                           spaces, plus 6 stacking spaces for each automated washing rack or bay
                                           1 space for every 500 square feet of showroom and office floor area, plus 1
Commercial motor vehicle sales and leasing space for every 20 vehicle display spaces (required off street parking spaces
                                           cannot be occupied by commercial motor vehicles/equipment for sale or for lease)
                                           1 space for each employee, plus 1 space for each 4 students. “Student occupancy”
Commercial schools                         is to be defined as the maximum occupancy of the room or rooms used for school
                                           purposes as determined by the Zoning Administrator
Food processing establishment              2 spaces for every 1,000 square feet of dedicated food preparation and office
                                           areas
Funeral homes                              1 space for every 4 seats in each chapel or parlor, plus 1 space for every
                                           company vehicle. However, in no event shall the use provide less than 50 spaces
Furniture and appliance stores             1 space for every 600 square feet of gross floor area
Groceries                                  1 space for every 300 square feet of gross floor area
Hotels or motels                           1 space per guestroom, plus 1 space per 200 square feet of area devoted to
                                           offices
Laundromats                                1 space for every 100 square feet of gross floor area
Medical and dental offices                 1 space for every 250 square feet of gross floor area
Motor vehicle sales and vehicle leasing/   1 space for every 500 square feet of showroom and office floor area, plus 1
rental agents                              space for every 20 vehicle display spaces (required off street parking spaces
                                           cannot be occupied by motor vehicles for sale or for lease)
Nurseries, building material yards,        1 space for every 300 square feet of gross floor area
equipment rental, and similar uses
Office                                     1 space for every 250 square feet of gross floor area
Restaurants:
Class A                                    1 space for every 100 square feet of net floor area, or 1 space for every 4
                                           seats, whichever is greater, plus 1 space for every 3 employees
Class B                                    1 space for every 50 square feet of net floor area, or 1 space for every 4
                                           seats, whichever is greater, plus 1 space for every 3 employees
Retail establishments                      1 space for every 250 square feet of gross floor area
Rooming or boarding houses                 1 space per guestroom
Service establishments                     1 space for every 250 square feet of gross floor area
Shopping centers                           3 spaces for every 1,000 square feet of gross floor area
Specialty food stores                      1 space per 200 square feet of floor area
Industrial uses:
Breweries                                  1 space for every 1,000 square feet of gross floor area
Breweries with accessory Class A           1 space for every 1,000 square feet of gross floor area, plus 1 space for every
restaurant                                 100 square feet of net floor area designated for accessory use, or 1 space for
                                           every 4 seats, whichever is greater, plus 1 space for every 3 employees
Breweries with accessory tavern            1 space for every 1,000 square feet of gross floor area, plus 1 space for every
                                           150 square feet of net floor area designated for accessory use
                                           For commercial storage facilities with self-enclosed storage lockers, 1 space
Commercial storage                         for every 75 storage units. For commercial storage facilities without self-
                                           enclosed storage lockers, 1 space for every 7,000 square feet of gross floor
                                           area
Distilleries                               1 space for every 1,000 square feet of gross floor area
Distilleries with accessory Class A        1 space for every 1,000 square feet of gross floor area, plus 1 space for every
restaurant                                 100 square feet of net floor area designated for accessory use, or 1 space for
                                           every 4 seats, whichever is greater, plus 1 space for every 3 employees
Distilleries with accessory tavern         1 space for every 1,000 square feet of gross floor area, plus 1 space for every
                                           150 square feet of net floor area designated for accessory use
Industrial and manufacturing uses          1 space for every 1,500 square feet of gross floor area
                                           1 space for every 3,000 square feet of outside area dedicated to outdoor bulk
Outdoor bulk material facility             material storage and 1 space for every 1,000 square feet of gross floor area of
                                           any building or structure serving this land use
Utility and service buildings and uses     1 space for every 600 square feet of gross floor area
Warehousing and wholesaling                1 space for every 1,500 square feet of gross floor area
 
Notes:
   1.   C-3 Mixed-Use PUD zoned lots that are within 2,500 feet of an
operational or proposed passenger rail train station or an operational rapid
transit bus platform may follow the lowered parking requirements for
residential dwelling units. Otherwise, all residential units shall follow the
two spaces per dwelling unit requirement.
   2.   Any commercially zoned assembly use established within a shopping
center shall comply with the off street parking requirements specifically
identified for such assembly use and not the off street parking requirement for
shopping centers.
   3.   Off-street parking is not required for parks one acre or less in area.
   4.   When a principal use of the zoning lot. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998; amd.
Ord. Z-11-08, 4-7-2008; Ord. Z-6-16, 4-4-2016; Ord. Z-10-18, 5-21-2018; Ord. Z-
17-18, 6-18-2018; Ord. Z-23-18, 8-20-2018; Ord. Z-31-18, 10-15-2018; Ord. Z-
13-19, 6-3-2019; Ord. Z-31-19, 12-2-2019; Ord. Z-3-20, 1-6-2020; Ord. Z-9-20,
3-16-2020; Ord. Z-16-20, 8-3-2020; Ord. Z-22-20, 9-21-2020; Ord. Z-6-22, 4-4-
2022; Ord. Z-40-22, 1-17-2023; Ord. Z-41-22, 1-17-2023; Ord. Z-17-23, 8- 21-
2023; Ord. Z-12-24, 6-17-2024)
12-9-8: MOBILITY IMPAIRED ACCESSIBLE PARKING:
The City encourages all developments which serve the public to provide parking
facilities which are accessible to people with disabilities. In accordance with
this goal, accessible parking shall be provided for any building or use
initiated after the effective date hereof according to the following minimum
requirements and any further requirements hereafter adopted by Federal, State,
or local law.
   A.   Required Spaces: Accessible parking spaces shall be provided at the
rate listed below:
Total Off Street        Accessible
Parking Spaces Provided Spaces Required
Total Off Street        Accessible
Parking Spaces Provided Spaces Required
   1 to 20           1
   21 to 50          2
   51 to 75          3
   76 to 100         4
   101 to 150        5
   151 to 200        6
   201 to 300        7
   301 to 400        8
   401 to 500        9
   501 to 1,000      2% of total parking spaces provided
   Over 1,000        20 plus 1 space for each 50 parking spaces over 1,000
 
   B.   Design And Layout Of Accessible Parking Spaces:
      1.   Accessible Parking Spaces Size: Each accessible parking space shall
be sixteen feet (16') in width and eighteen feet (18') in length.
      2.   Accessible Parking Spaces Location: Each accessible parking space
shall be located in close proximity to the most accessible entrance of the
principal building.
      3.   Maximum Slope: Accessible parking spaces, access aisles, and
accessible routes shall not exceed a slope of one to fifty (1:50), and the ramp
from the access aisle to the sidewalk or other transition to the principal use
shall not exceed a slope of one to twelve (1:12).
      4.   Vertical Clearance: The vertical clearance for accessible parking
spaces shall be no less than eight feet two inches (8'2"), and the vertical
clearance for passenger loading zones shall be no less than nine feet six
inches (9'6").
      5.   Signage And Marking: All accessible spaces shall be designated by
the international access symbol. Signs shall be placed a minimum of five and
one-half feet (51/2') above ground level so as not to be obscured by parked
vehicles. The mobility impaired symbol shall also be painted on the ground to
the rear of the parking space. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-9-9: OFF STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Commercial Districts: Where any building is erected, reconstructed or
converted for a use permitted in the C-1, C-2, C-3 or C-4 Commercial Districts,
one loading space shall be provided for each fifty thousand (50,000) square
feet or fraction thereof of gross building square footage.
   B.   Manufacturing Districts: Where any building is erected, reconstructed
or converted for a use permitted in the M-1, M-2 or M-3 Manufacturing
Districts, the loading space requirements shall be as follows:
 
Building Size                                          Spaces Required
0 - 100,000 sq. ft..                                      1 loading space
100,001 - 200,000 sq. ft.                                 2 loading spaces
200,001 - 300,000 sq. ft                                  3 loading spaces
Each additional 100,000 sq. ft. in excess of the first    1 loading space
300,000 sq. ft.
 
   C.   Specifications For Loading Spaces:
      1.   Size: Unless otherwise specified a required loading space shall be
at least fifteen feet (15') in width by at least thirty five feet (35') in
length, exclusive of aisle and maneuvering space, and shall have a vertical
clearance of at least fourteen feet (14').
      2.   Access: Each required off street loading space shall be designed
with appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley producing least
interference with traffic movements.
      3.   Location: All required loading spaces shall be located on the same
zoning lot as the use they serve, and be designed in such a manner so as not to
open onto or face a public right-of-way.
      4.   Surfacing: All open off street loading spaces shall be improved with
a compacted macadam base, not less than seven inches (7") thick, surfaced with
not less than two inches (2") of asphaltic concrete or some comparable all
weather dustless material. All required loading spaces shall be landscaped
according to chapter 10, "Landscaping And Screening", of this title.
      5.   Use:
         a.   No motor vehicle repair work or service of any kind shall be
permitted in conjunction with loading facilities provided in any residential or
commercial district.
         b.   Space allocated to any off street loading space shall not be used
to satisfy the space requirements for any off street parking facilities or
portions thereof. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998; amd. Ord. Z-13-19, 6-3-2019)
12-9-10: PERMITTED LAND BANK PARKING:
   A.    A portion of required off street parking spaces may be land banked in-
lieu of constructing the subject parking spaces for buildings established after
May 6, 2019 in attempt to promote open and greenspace and subject to the
following conditions and requirements.
      1.    Properties zoned C-2, C-3, C-4, M-1 and M-2 are eligible for
permitted land bank parking.
      2.    Commercially Zoned Assembly Uses and Restaurants are not eligible
for permitted land bank parking.
      3.    A maximum of 25% of the total required off-street parking spaces
can be land banked in-lieu of constructing the subject parking spaces.
      4.    The zoning administrator and city council reserve the right to
require the subject property owner to construct a portion of all of the land
banked parking spaces at any time.
      5.   A parking plan which shall be provided at the time of the request
and shall contain the following information:
         a.    The locations of the land bank parking spaces. The land bank
parking spaces shall be in full compliance with the parking regulations of this
chapter.
         b.    An off street parking calculation table shall be provided
showing the total number of required spaces and the proposed number of parking
spaces to be land banked.
         c.    The parking plan shall show the interim use of the land banked
area.
         d.    A statement shall be added to the parking plan that the Des
Plaines Zoning Administrator and the Des Plaines City Council reserve the right
to require the current property owner to construct a portion or all of the land
bank parking spaces at any time.
      6.    No permanent buildings or roofed structures shall be improved on
the portion of the subject building that is dedicated for the land banked
parking.
      7.    A legal agreement shall be approved by the city attorney which will
ensure that the land banked parking spaces shall be effectively maintained as
open green space until such time the land bank spaces are constructed. The
approved agreement shall also be recorded by the property owners with the
county recorder's office.
      8.    A fee of seventy-five dollars ($75.00) per space land banked shall
be charged to the applicant when applying for a land bank parking request.
(Ord. Z-13-19, 6-3-2019)
CHAPTER 10
LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING
SECTION:
12-10-1: Purpose
12-10-2: Enforcement Of Landscaping Requirements
12-10-3: Landscape Plan
12-10-4: Selection, Installation, And Maintenance Of Plant Materials
12-10-5: Design Guidelines
12-10-6: Minimum Landscaping Of Yards
12-10-7: Parkway Landscaping
12-10-8: Parking Lot Landscaping
12-10-9: Landscape Buffers
12-10-10: Foundation Landscaping 
12-10-11: Screening Of Refuse Disposal Dumpsters, Mechanical Equipment And
Loading Berths
12-10-12: Changes To Approved Landscape Plans
12-10-1: PURPOSE:
The landscaping and screening requirements established herein are intended to
preserve and enhance the appearance, character, health, safety, and general
welfare of the community by fostering aesthetically pleasing development. The
regulations are intended to increase the compatibility of adjacent uses, and
minimize the adverse impact of noise, dust, motor vehicle headlight glare or
other artificial light intrusions, and other objectionable activities or
impacts conducted on or created by adjoining or neighboring uses. The
regulations are also intended to promote the prudent use of water and energy
resources. (Ord. Z-8-20, 2-18-2020)
12-10-2: ENFORCEMENT OF LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Wherever a landscape plan is required by this title, such plan shall
become an integral part of any building permit application.
   B.   No building permit shall be issued without first obtaining approval of
a required landscape plan by the Director of Community and Economic Development
or his/her designee.
   C.   Failure to implement an approved landscape plan shall be deemed a
violation of this title and subject to the procedures of
Chapter 4 , “Enforcement and Penalties”, of this title. (Ord. Z-8-20, 2-18-
2020)
12-10-3: LANDSCAPE PLAN:
   A.   Landscape Plan Required: A landscape plan shall be required for any
development or redevelopment that requires site plan review pursuant to section
12-3-2 , “Site Plan Review”, of this title. Such landscape plan shall be
prepared in conformance with subsections B and C of this section.
   B.   Content of Landscape Plan: All landscape plans shall contain the
following information:
      1.   The location and dimensions of all existing and proposed structures,
property lines, easements, parking lots and drives, roadways and rights-of-way,
sidewalks, ground signs, refuse disposal and recycling areas, fences,
freestanding electrical equipment, tot lots and other recreational facilities,
and other freestanding structural features as determined necessary by the
Zoning Administrator;
      2.   The location, quantity, size and name, both botanical and common
names, of all existing plant materials, including trees and other material in
the right-of-way, and indicating plant material to be retained and removed;
      3.   The location, quantity, size (where applicable) and name, both
botanical and common names, of all proposed plant material including, but not
limited to, shade trees, shrubs, ground cover, annuals/perennials and turf;
      4.   Existing and proposed grading of the site indicating contours at
two-foot intervals. Proposed berming shall be indicated using one foot contour
intervals;
      5.   Elevations of all fences and retaining walls proposed for location
on the site;
      6.   The contact information for the landscape architect, architect, and/
or other contractor that prepared the landscape plan or that will perform the
landscape work.
      7.   Information regarding the property information including, without
limitation, the street address and zoning district.
   C.   Size and Scale of Landscape Plan: The landscape plan, and all other
design diagrams submitted as part of the landscape plan, must be legible and
drawn to the same scale as used to prepare the Site Plan. (Ord. Z-8-20, 2-18-
2020)
12-10-4: SELECTION, INSTALLATION, AND MAINTENANCE OF PLANT MATERIALS:
   A.   Selection of Plant Material: New planting materials must be:
      1.   Of good quality, and capable of withstanding the climate extremes of
northeastern Illinois, as well as, an individual site’s microclimate.
      2.   Of appropriate size and density, both at the time of planting and at
maturity, to conform to the Design Guidelines set forth in Section
12-10-5  of this title.
      3.   Preferably drought tolerant. A list of recommended plans can be
found in the Des Plaines Planting Guide maintained by the Department of
Community and Economic Development.
      4.   Salt tolerant for landscaping near streets and other rights of way.
A list of recommended plants can be found in the Des Plaines Planting Guide
maintained by the Department of Community and Economic Development.
      5.   In conformance with the Prohibited Plants section of the Des Plaines
Planting Guide maintained by the Department of Community and Economic
Development.
   B.   Installation of Plant Materials:
      1.   All landscaping materials shall be installed in conformance with the
Design Standards set forth in Section
12-10-5  and the current planting procedures established by the American
Association of Nurserymen before a Final Certificate of Occupancy can be can be
issued by the City.
      2.   Minimum Plant Size:
         a.   Shade Trees: All shade trees shall have a minimum trunk size of
two and one half inches in caliper at time of planting, unless otherwise
specified.
         b.   Shrubs:   
            i.   All shrubs, except parkway shrubs, shall have minimum height
of eight inches at planting and a maximum height of four feet at maturity.
            ii.   Parkway shrubs shall have no minimum height at planting but
shall have a maximum height of 36 inches at maturity.
      3.   The installation of all plant material required by this chapter may
be delayed until the next optimal planting season, as determined by the zoning
administrator.
      4.   All landscaping installed within a ten-foot vision triangle, must
not exceed three feet in height at any time. The ten-foot vision triangle shall
be measured starting from the outermost tip of the back of the curb at the
intersection, then projecting towards the private property lines at 45-degree
angles.
   C.   Bond Required. When the installation of landscaping is delayed due to
inclement weather, a bond is required pursuant to Section
10-13-3  prior to Temporary Certificate of Occupancy.
   D.   Maintenance:
      1.   All landscaping materials and structures, including plantings,
fences, walls, and other barriers, shall be maintained in good condition free
of refuse and debris so as to present a healthy, safe, and orderly appearance.
      2.   The owner of the property shall be responsible for the maintenance,
repair, and replacement of all failed landscaping materials and structures.
When necessary, plant material shall be replaced with a plant of equal type,
size and quantity to those depicted on the approved landscape plan.
      3.   Irrigation systems shall be maintained in good operating condition
to promote the health of the plant materials and the conservation of water. A
license agreement is required before an irrigation system is installed pursuant
to Section 8-5-2. (Ord. Z-8-20, 2-18-2020)
12-10-5: DESIGN GUIDELINES:
   A.   Landscape Area Design Guidelines:
      1.   Evergreens: Evergreens should be incorporated into the landscape
treatment of a site, particularly in those areas where screening and buffer is
required.
      2.   Planting Beds: Planting beds should be mulched with bark chips,
feather rocks, or similar materials. Mulch shall not be used as a substitute
for plant materials.
      3.   Domestic Turf Grasses: Domestic turf grasses should be used in areas
with little or no slope to prevent the runoff of irrigation water.
      4.   Deciduous trees should be placed on the south and west sides of
buildings to provide shade from the summer sun.
      5.   Evergreens and other plant materials should be concentrated on the
north and west sides of buildings to dissipate the effect of winter winds.
   B.   Site Design Guidelines:
      1.   Scale and Nature of Landscaping Material: The scale and nature of
landscaping materials shall be appropriate to the size of the structures. Large
scaled buildings, for example, should generally be complemented by larger
scaled plants.
      2.   Softening Of Walls And Fences: Plant material should be placed
intermittently against long expanses of building walls, fences, and other
barriers to create a softening effect.
      3.   Detention/Retention Basins And Ponds:
         a.   Detention/retention basins and ponds shall be designed and
landscaped in accordance with Article 5 of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District (MWRD) Technical Guidance Manual and Waste Water Management Ordinance.
         b.   Such landscaping should include shade and ornamental trees,
evergreens, shrubbery, hedges, turf, ground cover and/or other plant materials
as required by other government agencies.
      4.   Water Conservation: Landscape design pursuant to the requirements of
this chapter must recognize the need for water conservation. While sprinkler
irrigation systems are required for certain landscape areas, and may be
desirable for other applications, all irrigation systems shall be designed to
minimize the use of water.
      5.   Energy Conservation: Plant material placement should be designed to
reduce the energy consumption needs of the development.
      6.   Preservation of Existing Plant Material: Existing plant material
should be incorporated into the landscape treatment of a site. Effort should be
made to preserve and protect existing trees with trunk diameters in excess of
twelve inches. Construction equipment and personnel should be kept away from
such trees and their root systems by the installation of fencing materials at
the tree’s drip line.
      7.   Berming: Earthen berms and existing topographic features should be
incorporated into the landscape treatment of a site whenever determined
practical by the zoning administrator, particularly when combined with plant
material to facilitate screening. (Ord. Z-8-20, 2-18-2020)
12-10-6: MINIMUM LANDSCAPING OF YARDS:
   A.   Turf: For all zoning lots, areas of the property not covered by
structures or impervious surfaces shall be landscaped with turf, wood mulch, or
other plant materials. Rocks and stone mulch are not permitted.
   B.   Trees: Shade trees with a minimum trunk size of two and one-half inches
in caliper shall be provided for all zoning lots at a rate of one tree for
every 2,500 square feet of yard. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998; amd. Ord. Z-8-20, 2-
18-2020)
12-10-7: PARKWAY LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Applicability: The following requirements shall apply to landscaping
located within a parkway, as defined in Section
8-6-1 , adjoining the property.
   B.   Parkway Trees:
      1.   Location And Spacing: Parkway trees shall be planted in conformance
with Section
8-4-1  of the Des Plaines Municipal Ordinance.
      2.   Species:
         a.   Trees installed within the parkway shall be of an appropriate
species based on the specific site or development. A list of recommended
parkway trees can be found in the Des Plaines Planting Guide maintained by the
Department of Community and Economic Development.
         b.   The selection of tree species shall be reviewed and approved by
the zoning administrator.
         c.   No evergreen trees or fruit-bearing trees shall be installed
within the parkway.
      3.   Maintenance: Parkway trees shall be trimmed and maintained in
accordance with Section 8-4-3 to avoid obstructions and safety concerns within
the public rights-of-way.
   C.   Parkway Ground Surface Materials and Plantings:
      1.   Turf: Turf is permitted in all parkways and is recommended on slope
grades up to 50 percent (2 horizontal: 1 vertical). Turf is not recommended on
slopes greater than 50 percent.
      2.   Groundcover: Groundcover is permitted in all parkways but shall not
exceed 24 inches in height at maturity.
      3.   Shrubs: Shrubs are permitted in all parkways but shall not exceed 36
inches in height at maturity. Shrubs should be installed so as not to obstruct
or frustrate the use of sidewalks or on-street parking areas.
      4.   Driveways and Walkways: Driveways and walkways are permitted in
parkways provided that these improvements conform with all applicable City Code
regulations.
      5.   Prohibited Materials: Materials prohibited in parkways include brick
pavers, gravel, asphalt, and concrete except approved materials for driveways
and walkways pursuant to Section    .
   D.   Public Right-of-Way Landscape Planters:
      1.   Applicability: The following items shall apply to newly constructed
buildings on properties within the C-5 Central Business District where the
building setback on the front elevation is zero feet or as otherwise required
by the zoning administrator.
      2.   License Agreement: A license agreement, in accordance with
Title 8, Chapter 5  of this title, is required prior to the of all landscape
planters within city rights-of-way.
      3.   Landscape Planter Specifications: Landscape planter boxes shall be
at least 18-inches in height and of a sufficient width to cover at least 25% of
street-facing elevations.
      4.   Landscape Planter Location: Landscape planter boxes must be located
within the portion of the right-of-way directly adjoining the lot frontage.
Landscape planter boxes must be located at least five feet away from the curb
of any roadway.
      5.   Live Green Wall Alternative: As an alternative to providing
landscape planters, live green walls may be provided on street-facing
elevations from the ground to eight-feet in height for a horizontal distance of
25% of the street-facing elevation or a combination of landscape planters and
live green walls may be utilized. (Ord. Z-8-20, 2-18-2020)
12-10-8: PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Applicability: All parking lots designed for ten or more parking spaces
shall provide landscaping in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
Parking lots designed for less than ten parking spaces shall provide
landscaping as may be deemed appropriate by the zoning administrator.
      1.   Interior Parking Lot Landscaping: Not less than five percent of the
interior of a parking lot shall be devoted to landscaping. Landscaped areas
located along the perimeter of a parking lot beyond the curb or edge of
pavement of the lot shall not be counted toward the satisfaction of this
requirement.
      2.   Landscaped Areas: The landscaped areas defined in subsection B.1 of
this section, shall be improved as follows:
Location and Design Standards:
  Interior parking lot landscaping areas must be improved with curb and gutter
  and shall be raised at least six inches above the surface of the parking lot.
 Landscape areas shall be located at the end of every parking row and after
  each 30 spaces within a row. Additional landscaping shall be dispersed
  throughout the parking lot in a design and configuration that aesthetically
  corresponds to the size and shape of the parking lot.
 Clustering of landscaping areas should be considered when possible.
Size:
  Interior parking lot landscaping areas shall be a minimum of 100 square feet
 in area and shall be a minimum of eight feet in width, as measured from back
  of curb to back of curb.
Landscape Material:
  Type: The primary plant materials used in parking lots shall be shade tree
 species in conformance sections 12-10-4 and 12-10-5 of this chapter.
  Ornamental trees, shrubbery, hedges, and other plant materials may only be
  used to supplement the shade tree plantings.
 Quantity: One shade tree shall be provided for every one hundred square feet
  of landscaping area.
  Ground Cover: A minimum of 50 percent of every interior parking lot
  landscaping area shall be planted with an approved ground cover in the
 appropriate density to achieve complete cover within two years. Mulch may be
  substituted for other ground cover if it is applied to 100 percent of the
  landscaping area at a thickness of at least two inches.
 
   B.   Perimeter Parking Lot Landscaping:
      1.   Purpose: Perimeter parking lot landscaping for all zoning lots is to
provide for the enhancement of parking lots by requiring a uniform scheme of
landscaping along public streets.
      2.   Applicability: Perimeter landscaping is required for parking lots
with ten or more spaces and located within a required yard and/or within 20
feet of a lot line.
      3.   Landscape Area: Where perimeter landscaping is required, it shall
comply with the following requirements:
Location:
 A perimeter landscape area shall be established along the end of the parking
  lot that is within a required yard and/or within 20 feet of a lot line.
Size:
  The perimeter landscape area shall at least five feet in width, as measured
 from the back of the parking lot curb and excluding any parking space
  overhang area.
Required Improvements:
 Shade Trees: One tree for every 40 feet of perimeter landscape area length.
  Trees may be clustered based on specific site requirements.
  Shrubs: One shrub, measuring a minimum of 18 inches at planting and not to
  exceed four feet at maturity, for every three feet of perimeter landscape
 area length, clustered or spaced linearly as determined by the zoning
  administrator. The landscape treatment shall run the full length of the
  parking lot area when abutting a residential use and 75 percent of the yard
  when abutting a nonresidential use.
  Ground Cover: Landscaped area outside of shrub masses shall be planted in
 turf or other ground cover approved by the zoning administrator. (Ord. Z-8-
  20, 2-18-2020)
 
12-10-9: LANDSCAPE BUFFERS:
   A.   Applicability: The regulations of this section shall establish the
dimensions and improvement requirements of landscape buffers as required for
transitions between uses.
   B.   General Restrictions:
      1.   Landscape buffers shall be reserved for the planting of material and
installation of fencing as required within this section.
      2.   Except as permitted in Section
12-10-9 (B)(3), no parking, driveways, sidewalks, accessory buildings or other
impervious surfaces shall be permitted, unless specifically authorized through
site plan review subject to section
12-3-2  of this title.
      3.   Landscape buffers may contain a pedestrian connection between
abutting districts provided that the proposed connection meets the requirements
set forth in Section
12-3-2  of this title.
      4.   Landscape buffers may be located within required yards or required
landscape yards as established in the applicable district regulations.
      5.   Where both landscape buffers and parking lot landscaping is
required, the more restrictive shall apply.
   C.   Size And Improvement Of Landscape Buffers: The size and required
improvement of landscape buffers shall be as follows:
R-3 Townhouse Residential, R-4 Central Core Residential, Or MH-1 Mobile Home Park
Districts:
 Buffer Width: Where a multiple-family or mobile home park development abuts a
 single- or two-family residential district or use, a landscape buffer a minimum of
 five feet in width shall be provided.
 Buffer Improvements: The landscape buffer shall include a solid wood, vinyl, or
 masonry fence, not exceeding six feet in height. The remaining landscape buffer area
 not covered by the fence shall be maintained as turf or other ground cover.
C-1 And C-2 Commercial Districts:
 Buffer Width: Where a lot in the C-1 neighborhood shopping district or C-2 limited
 office commercial district abuts a residential district or use, a landscape buffer a
 minimum of five feet in width shall be provided.
 Buffer Improvements: The landscape buffer shall include the following improvements:
    1.   Shade trees, a minimum of two and one-half inches in caliper, shall be
 planted on an average of one tree for every 30 feet of the yard length.
    2.   A solid wood, vinyl, or masonry fence eight feet in height shall be erected
 along one 100 percent of the yard length
    3.   The remaining landscape buffer area not planted with trees shall be
 maintained as turf or other ground cover.
C-3 and C-4 Commercial, M-1, M-2 Or M-3 Manufacturing Districts:
 Buffer Width: Where a lot in the C-3 general commercial district, C-4 regional
 shopping, M-1 limited manufacturing district, M-2 general manufacturing district, or
 M-3 special manufacturing district abuts a residential district or use, a landscape
 buffer a minimum of five feet in width shall be provided.
 Buffer Improvements: The landscape buffer shall contain the following improvements:
    1.   Shade trees, a minimum of two and one-half inches in caliper, shall be
 planted on an average of one tree for every 30 feet of the yard length.
    2.   A solid wood, vinyl, or masonry fence eight feet in height shall be erected
 along one 100 percent of the yard length
    3.   The landscape buffer area not planted with trees shall be maintained as turf
 or other ground cover.
I-1 Institutional District:
 Buffer Width: Where an I-1 institutional district abuts a residential district or
 use, a landscape buffer a minimum of five feet in width shall be provided.
    1.   Buffer Improvements: The landscape buffer shall contain the following
 improvements: Shade trees, a minimum of two and one-half inches in caliper, shall be
 planted on an average of one tree for every 30 feet of the yard length.
    2.   A solid wood, vinyl, or masonry fence eight feet in height shall be erected
 along one 100 percent of the yard length
    3.   The Landscape buffer area not planted with trees shall be maintained as turf
 or other ground cover. (Ord. Z-8-20, 2-18-2020; amd. Ord. Z-32-23, 11-20-2023)
 
12-10-10: FOUNDATION LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Applicability: For all new construction in the city, landscaping shall
be installed and maintained along the foundation of all structures constructed
after March 20, 2020.
      B.   Minimum Foundation landscaping area: Foundation planting
requirements apply to landscaping at full maturity.
      1.   Interior lots: All interior lots shall be improved with a minimum
landscape area around 25% of the foundation of the principal structures with
emphasis on street-facing elevations.
      2.   Corner lots: All corner lots shall be improved with a minimum
landscape area around 35% of the foundation of the principal and accessory
structures with emphasis on street-facing elevations.
      3.   All foundation landscaping areas shall project at least three feet
from the building elevation.
   C.   Relocation of displaced landscaping: When foundation landscaping is
removed for the purpose of installing pavement or other non-permeable surface,
the displaced landscaping shall be replanted elsewhere on site.
   D.   Minor Variation: A variation from the strict application of these
provisions may be sought pursuant to Section
12-3-6 (E), “Minor Variations”, of this title. (Ord. Z-8-20, 2-18-2020)
12-10-11: SCREENING OF REFUSE DISPOSAL DUMPSTERS, MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT AND
LOADING BERTHS:
   A.   Refuse Disposal Dumpsters: Refuse disposal dumpsters in all zoning
districts shall be screened on all sides by a solid wood or masonry fence to a
height of not less than six feet but not more than eight feet; provided,
however, this requirement shall not apply to recycling containers and devices.
   B.   Mechanical Equipment: Locating mechanical equipment within the
principal structure is strongly encouraged in order to minimize exterior visual
impacts. Mechanical equipment may be installed on the exterior of a building
subject to the following conditions and restrictions:
      1.   Applicability: Mechanical equipment must be screened when new
equipment is installed on the exterior of commercial, industrial, and
institutional developments, or residential developments with more than four
dwelling units. Screening is not be required when replacing an existing, non-
screened rooftop mechanical equipment in the same location with a new unit that
is either as tall as, or shorter than, the existing equipment. Routine
maintenance of unscreened mechanical equipment may be performed without
prompting the mandatory screening requirements.
      2.   Mechanical Equipment Installed On The Ground: Mechanical equipment
installed on the ground shall be screened on all sides.
         a.   Required Height: An enclosure shall completely screen the
mechanical equipment from public view and extend to a height of not less than
the maximum height of the mechanical equipment installed, including the height
of any concrete pad or base where the mechanical equipment is installed.
         b.   Required Landscaping: The enclosure shall be fully screened by a
minimum 3-foot-wide landscape bed with planting material proportionate to the
required height of the enclosure consisting of a combination of perennials and
shrubs.
         c.   Materials: The enclosure must be constructed of masonry,
concrete, or solid wood of a color compatible with the principal structure.
Additional considerations, including the installation of noise dampening
materials, may be required to reduce noise levels generated from large
mechanical equipment and minimize impact to surrounding properties pursuant to
Section
6-2-7 .
      3.   Rooftop-Installed Mechanical Equipment
         a.   Required Height: All rooftop mechanical equipment (except as
required by this code for venting) must be hidden so as not to be viewed from
six feet (6') above ground level from any adjacent property line or from the
sidewalk on the opposite of side of any abutting street. A sight line diagram
may be required to determine equipment is adequately screened.
         b.   Screening Materials: Screening must be continuous, permanent,
sound attenuating and noncombustible and a color and material compatible with
the principal structure. In order to comply with Section 6-2-7 of this Code,
additional considerations, including the installation of noise dampening
materials, may be required to reduce noise levels generated from large
mechanical equipment and minimize impact to surrounding properties.
      4.   Minor Variation: A variation from the strict application of these
provisions may be sought pursuant to Section
12-3-6E, "Minor Variations", of this title.
   C.   Loading Berths:
      1.   Loading berths in all zoning districts shall be screened as much as
possible while still allowing access to the use it is serving unless exempt
from this provision by the Zoning Administrator.
      2.   Such screening shall consist of a solid wood or masonry fence to a
height of not less than six feet but not more than eight feet or a continuous
evergreen or dense deciduous shrub hedge or a combination of the two. (Ord. Z-
8-20, 2-18-2020; amd. Ord. Z-19-24, 9-16-2024)
12-10-12: CHANGES TO APPROVED LANDSCAPE PLANS:
   A.   Any change to or deviation from an approved landscape plan shall
require the approval of the zoning administrator. Changes which do not conform
to this chapter shall be subject to the procedures for a variance as
established in section
12-3-6 , “Variations”, of this title.
   B.   Landscape improvements made to a lot that are not in conformance with
an approved landscape plan shall be a violation of this title and subject to
the procedures of
chapter 4 , “Enforcement And Penalties”, of this title. (Ord. Z-8-20, 2-18-
2020)
CHAPTER 11
SIGNS
SECTION:
12-11-1: Liberal Construction And Purpose
12-11-2: Signs Prohibited
12-11-3: Sign Permits
12-11-4: General Sign Standards
12-11-5: Sign Standards By Sign Type
12-11-6: Regulation By District Classification
12-11-7: Variations
12-11-8: Localized Alternative Sign Regulations
12-11-9: Enforcement
12-11-10: Signs Not Conforming To This Chapter
12-11-11: Revocation Of Permit
12-11-1: LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION AND PURPOSE:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter and any regulations imposed by this
chapter shall be liberally constructed in a manner which ensures the rights of
persons, groups, associations and entities as guaranteed by the United States
and Illinois Constitutions. It is not the intent of this chapter to infringe on
any such rights.
   B.   The purpose of this chapter is to provide a legal framework for the
comprehensive regulation of signs in the City of Des Plaines. It recognizes the
need for adequate identification, advertising, and communication within the
community, which is structurally sound, well maintained and attractive in
appearance. To achieve this purpose, this chapter is intended to control the
height, area, location and other similar aspects of signs and sign structures,
while also:
      1.   Preserving the noncommercial character of residential neighborhoods;
      2.   Providing reasonable yet appropriate conditions for identifying
businesses and services rendered in commercial, institutional and industrial
areas;
      3.   Reducing traffic hazards by restricting signs and lights which
exceed a viewer's capacity to receive information or which increases the
potential for accidents created by signage which distracts or obstructs a
viewer's vision; and
      4.   Protecting the health, safety and general welfare of the residents
of the City. (Ord. Z-24-05, 8-29-2005)
12-11-2: SIGNS PROHIBITED:
The following signs shall be prohibited:
   A.   Signs which move or give the appearance of movement, including, but not
limited to, signs which flutter, undulate, swing, rotate, oscillate or
otherwise move by natural or artificial means.
      1.   Temporary signs such as pennants, banners, and streamers shall not
be deemed to fall within this prohibition, provided a sign permit is first
obtained from the Zoning Administrator pursuant to section
12-11-3 of this chapter.
      2.   Time and temperature signs shall not be deemed to fall within this
prohibition.
      3.    Signs containing electronic message boards shall be subject to the
standards and regulations as set forth in subsection
12-11-5G of this chapter.
   B.    Roof signs, except for signs painted on flat roofs of an owner-
occupied building located in the M-2 General Manufacturing District. For the
purposes of this section, flat roofs are roofs that are not visible from grade
level and that contain interior (as opposed to perimeter) drainage.
   C.    Off premises signs, except as provided for in this chapter; however,
noncommercial off premises signs are permitted subject to any applicable size,
height or similar restrictions provided elsewhere in this chapter.
   D.    Signs which imitate traffic signs, including, but not limited to,
signs which incorporate the words "Stop", "Danger", "Warning", "Caution", or
"Go Slow", unless such language is part of a name of a business. (Signs which
are accessory to a parking lot shall not be deemed to fall within this
prohibition.)
   E.    Portable or wheeled signs, except for A-frame signs as permitted
pursuant to sections
12-11-5 and
12-11-6 of this chapter.
   F.    Signs placed on parked vehicles or trailers where the apparent purpose
is to advertise a product or to direct the public to a business or activity
located on or off the same premises.
   G.    Inflatable images such as balloons.
   H.    Marquees, except where permitted pursuant to sections
12-11-5 and
12-11-6 of this chapter. (Ord. Z-24-05, 8-29-2005; amd. Ord. Z-11-07, 3-19-
2007; Ord. Z-23-17, 11-6-2017; Ord. Z-17- 19, 7-1-2019)
12-11-3: SIGN PERMITS:
   A.   Scope: No sign, except as provided in subsection G of this section,
shall hereafter be erected, constructed, altered, or relocated without first
obtaining a permit from the Zoning Administrator.
   B.   Applications: Applications for a sign permit shall be filed with the
Zoning Administrator, on forms so provided, and in accordance with the
requirements of section
12-3-1, "Applications And Hearings", of this title.
   C.   Issuance Of The Permit:
      1.   The Zoning Administrator: Upon receipt of a fully complete sign
permit application, the Zoning Administrator shall examine the application and
all material attached thereto to determine its compliance with this chapter, as
well as, any other applicable City Code, ordinance, or law. The Zoning
Administrator shall take formal action on the application within thirty (30)
days of the date the application was filed. Except where needed to determine if
a sign meets the requirements set forth in this chapter, the content of
proposed signs is irrelevant and is not to be considered by any City official
or employee in any government action or permit review.
      2.   Approval By Electrical Inspector: Applications for a sign permit in
which electrical wiring and connections are to be used shall also be reviewed
and approved by the electrical inspector for the City of Des Plaines.
      3.   Billboard Permits: As stated in section
12-11-6 of this chapter, billboards are signs meeting IDOT requirements, within
six hundred sixty feet (660') of I-90 and I-294 and for which the total surface
area of the signs does not exceed one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet
per face and does not exceed two thousand four hundred (2,400) total square
feet for a double faced sign. As stated further in that section, the height of
the sign shall not exceed ninety nine feet (99') from the base of the pole to
the top of the structure or sixty five feet (65') from the surface of the
pavement of the lane closest to the structure, except as otherwise provided by
a limited variation ordinance.
         a.   Pursuant to the provisions of subsection
12-11-6B of this chapter, a permit shall be required for each billboard
erected.
   D.   Validity Of The Permit: If work authorized under a sign permit has not
been completed within six (6) months of the date of issuance, the sign permit
shall then become void.
   E.   Bond: (Rep. by Ord. Z-9-16, 6-6-2016)
   F.   Appeals:
      1.   Appeals From The Denial Of A Sign Permit: An appeal from the denial
of a sign permit shall be taken to the Planning and Zoning Board pursuant to
section
12-3-9, "Appeals", of this title.
      2.   Appeals Taken For The Failure To Issue A Sign Permit: Failure of the
zoning administrator to take formal action on a sign permit application within
the prescribed time set forth above, unless otherwise agreed to by the
applicant, shall be grounds for an appeal to the Planning and Zoning Board
pursuant to section
12-3-9, "Appeals", of this title.
   G.   Exempt Signs: The following signs shall be exempt from the permit
requirements set forth in this section; provided however, they meet the
remaining requirements of this chapter, as well as, any limitation set forth
herein.
      1.   Public service signs. Signs used for safety purposes relative to the
repair or maintenance of streets, sidewalks, or utilities in a public right of
way, provided such signs shall not exceed two (2) square feet in area.
      2.   Address signs. Address numbers not exceeding two (2) square feet in
area.
      3.   Governmental. Signs and public notices erected or required by
governmental bodies, or authorized for a public purpose by any law, statute, or
ordinance, or to promote the public good. Governmental signs and notices shall
be installed on public property or private property if the private property
owner consents to the installation of such governmental sign or notice.
      4.   Public information signs. Signs identifying the telephone,
restrooms, and similar facilities, providing no advertising matter accompanies
the sign.
      5.   Flags are exempt. Flagpoles accompanying such flags shall be limited
to a height of twenty feet (20') in residential districts and forty feet (40')
in nonresidential districts. The size of the flag shall be in proportion to the
height of the pole.
      6.   Memorial plaques. Memorial plaques and cornerstones when not
exceeding two (2) square feet in area when permanently affixed to a building or
premises.
      7.   Bulletin boards. Notice and bulletin boards for public, charitable,
religious, or similar type institution when not exceeding sixteen (16) square
feet and located on the same premises as the institution.
      8.   Time and temperature signs. Time and temperature signs containing
computer generated message such as a public service, time, temperature, and
date not exceeding eighteen (18) square feet.
      9.   Historical identification signs. Signs for property designated by
the federal, state, or local governments as a historical location, site, or
landmark, provided such sign does not exceed twelve (12) square feet.
      10.   Real estate signs. Real estate signs advertising one (1) to twenty-
four (24) residential units in a single development in the type and number
listed below:
         a.   Signs advertising the sale, lease, or rent of property, provided:
            (1)    No sign shall exceed eight (8) square feet in area,
            (2)    No sign shall be erected more than six feet (6') from the
finished floor and not displayed above the second floor of a multi-story
building,
            (3)    Not more than one sign per street frontage is displayed,
            (4)    Every sign is located on the same premises as the subject
property, and
            (5)    Every sign is removed seven (7) days after the closing or
execution of the lease.
         b.   Signs identifying a real estate open house, provided:
            (1)    No sign shall exceed six (6) square feet in area,
            (2)    Not more than four (4) signs per property shall be
displayed,
            (3)    The signs shall be displayed only between the hours of nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M.,
            (4)    The signs may be located at any intersection within one
square mile of the subject property, but only one sign per intersection per
property shall be allowed, and
            (5)    Every sign shall have attached to it identification denoting
the person or persons who are responsible for the placement and removal of the
signs.
      11.   Miscellaneous information matter. Matter appearing on gasoline
pumps, newspaper vending boxes, automatic teller machines, and other vending
machines, or matter appearing on or adjacent to entry doors such as "Push",
"Pull", "Open", and "Closed", or matter appearing on display windows or doors
denoting hours of operation, credit cards accepted, and similar information.
      12.   Temporary window signs. Except in residential districts, two (2)
signs per window with the total sign area for both signs not to exceed fifty
percent (50%) of the window surface area.
      13.   Temporary, personal message, celebration, special event and garage
sale signs on residentially zoned property, are subject to the following: The
mayor and city council specifically find and declare that proliferation of an
unlimited number and size of signs, particularly in residentially zoned areas
of the city would create ugliness, visual blight and clutter, tarnish the
natural beauty of the landscape and architectural environment, impair property
values, substantially impinge upon the privacy and special ambience of the
community and cause safety and traffic hazards to motorists, pedestrians and
children. Temporary personal message, celebration, special event and similar
signs are permitted subject to the following restrictions:
         a.   No such sign shall exceed sixty five (65) square feet in sign
surface area.
         b.   No more than two (2) temporary signs shall be placed on the
property at any one time.
         c.   No such sign shall be illuminated.
         d.   No such sign shall project higher than forty two inches (42")
above the ground level at the base of the sign.
         e.   No such sign shall be located within ten feet (10') of any other
lot, parcel or tract.
         f.   A temporary sign erected in connection with a rummage sale or
garage sale shall not be erected for a period longer than three (3) days, and
must be removed no later than nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. on the day the rummage
or garage sale expires.
      14.    Directional Signs. A maximum of three (3) directional signs shall
be allowed on lots zoned C-2, C-3, C-4 and M-2 and are subject to the following
additional restrictions:
         a.    The maximum allowable height for each directional sign is three
(3) feet from the established grade.
         b.    The maximum area for each directional sign shall be two (2)
square feet.
         c.    Directional signs may be internally illuminated, but shall not
be externally illuminated; however, a valid electrical permit shall be
required.
         d.    Each directional sign must be installed on private property,
must be setback at least two (2) feet from any property line and must be
adjacent to a vehicle entrance or exit.
         e.    All directional signs shall be accompanied with at least one
foot (1') of landscaping around the entire base of the sign. The plantings
shall consist of low-lying evergreen shrubs and perennials.
      15.   Employment Opportunity Signs. Signs advertising available positions
at a business and located on the same zoning lot as the business. Employment
opportunity signs are limited to one sign per business and must not exceed four
feet in height and 16 square feet in area. (Ord. Z-26-05A, 9-19-2005; amd. Ord.
Z-18-08, 7-7-2008; Ord. Z-14-15, 7-6-2015; Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015; Ord. Z-17-
19, 7-1-2019; Ord. Z-16-20, 8-3-2020)
12-11-4: GENERAL SIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Limitations On Location Of Signs:
      1.   No sign shall be erected or maintained at the intersection of any
streets in such a manner as to obstruct the free and clear vision of a driver
of a vehicle or a pedestrian.
      2.   No sign shall be erected or maintained so as to prevent the free
ingress or egress from any door, window, or fire escape, and no signs shall be
attached to a standpipe or fire escape.
      3.   No person shall permit, maintain, or display any sign painted
directly on an exterior wall, fascia or parapet of a building, fence, or
chimney; except however, existing signs advertising a business operating on the
same premises may be retained, provided the sign receives regular maintenance.
      4.   No sign shall be allowed or maintained if the sign shall, in any
way, violate the Illinois highway advertising control act of 1971, as amended.
Signs controlled by the provisions of the act, shall be in compliance therewith
and no such sign shall exceed a height of thirty five feet (35') above ground
level.
      5.   No person shall place, paste, print, or affix, in any manner, a
handbill, sign, poster, advertisement or notice of any kind in any public right
of way on any trees, light standards, telephone poles or other supporting
structure.
   B.   Illumination:
      1.   Location And Design Of Light Source: Whenever an external artificial
light source is used to illuminate a sign, such source shall be located,
shielded and directed so as to not be visible from any public street or private
residence. No receptacle or device housing a permitted light source which is
attached to the sign itself shall protrude more than fifteen inches (15") from
the face of the sign or building to which it is attached. If ground lighting is
used to illuminate a sign, the receptacle or device should not protrude more
than twelve inches (12") and must be fully screened from view by landscaping.
      2.   Level Of Illumination: In no event shall the illumination of any
sign, resulting from any internal or external artificial light source, exceed
one hundred (100) foot-candles at the sign face. All artificial illumination
shall be so designed, located, shielded, and directed as to prevent the casting
of direct light upon adjacent property or streets.
      3.   Signs Adjacent To Residential Areas: Signs located on a lot abutting
a residential district or a sign within one hundred feet (100') of any
residentially zoned area shall be so designed, located, shielded, and directed
so as to prevent the casting of direct light upon adjacent properties or
streets.
   C.   Sign Area Computation: The following principles shall control the
computation of sign area:
      1.   Computation Of Area Of Individual Signs: The area of a sign face
shall be computed by means of the smallest square, circle, rectangle, triangle,
or combination thereof that will encompass the extreme limits of the writing,
representation, emblem, color, or other display, together with any material or
color forming an integral part of the background or the display or used to
differentiate the sign from the backdrop or structure against which it is
placed, but not including any supporting framework or bracing unless such
framework or bracing is made part of the message or face of the sign.
      2.   Computation Of Area Of Multiple Faced Signs: The sign area for a
sign with more than one face shall be computed by adding together the area of
all sign faces visible from any one point. When two (2) identical sign faces
are placed back to back, so that both faces cannot be viewed from any point at
the same time, and when such sign faces are part of the same sign structure and
are not more than forty two inches (42") apart, the sign area shall be computed
by the measurement of one of the faces.
   D.   Construction And Design Standards: All signs shall meet the
construction and design standards set forth for signs in the city's building
code.
   E.   Litter Control: All signs and the premises surrounding the sign shall
be maintained in a clean, sanitary and inoffensive condition, and free and
clear of all obnoxious substances, rubbish and weeds.
   F.   Maintenance: Every sign established in the city shall, at all times, be
maintained in good structural condition, and be painted at least once every two
(2) years, including all metal parts and supports thereof that are not
galvanized or of rust resistant metals. The zoning administrator shall have the
authority to inspect any sign pursuant to section
12-11-9, "Enforcement", of this chapter and order any remedial action
authorized thereunder.
   G.   Landscaping Requirement: Pole and monument signs shall be required to
provide and maintain landscaping at the base of the sign. The landscaping
provided shall consist of a square, rectangle, oval or circle, whose area shall
be three feet (3') in width on each side of the sign's base.
   H.   Wind Pressure And Dead Load Requirements: All signs and sign structures
shall be designed and constructed to withstand wind pressures and dead loads as
required by the city's building code.
   I.   Identification And Marking: Each sign hereafter erected or remodeled
shall bear in a prominent position thereon a clearly legible identification
plate, stating the name of the person responsible for its construction and
erection. Electrical signs shall be marked with input amperes at full load
input. (Ord. Z-24-05, 8-29-2005)
12-11-5: SIGN STANDARDS BY SIGN TYPE:
   A.   Pole Signs:
      1.   Materials: All pole signs shall have a surface or facing of
incombustible material; provided, however, that combustible structural trim may
be used thereon.
      2.   Construction: All letters, figures, characters, or representations
in cutout or irregular form, maintained in conjunction with, attached to, or
superimposed on any sign shall be safely and securely built or attached to the
sign structure.
      3.   Setback: No pole sign shall be constructed closer than five feet
(5') from any property line. The setback distance shall be measured from the
outermost portion of sign to the property line. Where a public sidewalk is
constructed over a property line, the setback shall be five feet (5') measured
from the outermost portion of sign to the nearest edge of the sidewalk.
      4.   Supports: All ground signs shall be securely built, constructed and
erected upon posts and standards sunk at least three feet (3') below the
natural surface of the ground, and shall be supported and braced in the rear
thereof, extending from the top thereof to a point in the ground of at least a
distance equal to one-half (1/2) the height of such sign, measured along the
ground, from the posts or standards which the same is erected.
   B.   Monument Signs:
      1.   Materials: All monument signs shall have a surface or facing of
incombustible material; provided, however, that combustible structural trim may
be used thereon.
      2.   Construction: All letters, figures, characters, or representations
in cutout or irregular form, maintained in conjunction with, attached to, or
superimposed on any sign shall be safely and securely built or attached to the
sign structure.
      3.   Setback: No monument sign shall be constructed closer than five feet
(5') from any property line. The distance shall be measured from the outermost
portion of the sign to the property line. Where a public sidewalk is
constructed over a property line, the setback shall be five feet (5') measured
from the outermost portion of the sign to the nearest edge of the sidewalk.
      4.   Supports: All ground signs shall be securely built, constructed and
erected in conformance with the city's building code.
   C.   Wall Signs:
      1.   Materials: All wall signs shall have a surface or facing of
incombustible material; provided, however, that combustible structural trim may
be used thereon.
      2.   Projection Above Sidewalk And Setback: No wall sign shall be
permitted to extend more than fifteen inches (15") from the face of the wall
and shall not extend past the top of the wall, nor extend beyond the ends of
the wall to which the signs are attached.
      3.   Supports: All wall signs shall be safely and securely attached to
the building wall. The method of attachment must be in accordance with all
applicable sections of this chapter and the city's building code, details of
which must be shown on the permit plans and approved by the zoning
administrator.
      4.   Location: No wall sign shall cover wholly or partially any wall
opening, nor project beyond the ends or top of the wall to which it is
attached.
   D.   Awnings:
      1.   Materials: Awnings may be constructed of cloth or metal; provided,
however, all frames and supports shall be of metal.
      2.   Projection Above Sidewalk And Setback: All awnings shall be
constructed and erected so that the lowest portion thereof shall be not less
than eight feet (8') above the level of the sidewalk or public thoroughfare. No
awning shall be permitted to extend beyond a point two feet (2') inside the
curb line.
      3.   Supports: Every awning shall be securely attached to and supported
by the building. Posts or columns beyond the building line shall not be
permitted for awnings. No awning shall be attached to the wood jambs, frames or
other wood members of a building (frame buildings excepted) when such building
is less than ten feet (10') from public property.
   E.   Canopies:
      1.   Materials: Canopies may be constructed of cloth or metal hood;
provided, however, all frames and supports be of metal.
      2.   Projection Above Sidewalk And Setback: All canopies shall be
constructed and erected so that the lowest portion thereof shall be not less
than eight feet (8') above the level of the sidewalk or public thoroughfare. A
canopy shall not extend more than four feet (4') beyond the front of a building
or three feet (3') into the public right of way. No canopy shall be permitted
to extend beyond a point two feet (2') inside the curb line.
      3.   Supports: The framework of all canopies shall be designed by an
architect or structural engineer and approved by the zoning administrator and
in compliance with the city's building code.
   F.   Temporary Signs:
      1.   Duration: No temporary sign shall be erected and maintained for a
period in excess of 60 days, except as set forth in subsections below and
pursuant to section
12-11-6 of this chapter. At the expiration of said 60 days, or other applicable
duration, no sign shall be erected or maintained on the premises for a period
of 30 days.
         a.    Construction related and available space signs: For new
developments or existing properties with either (i) two thousand (2,000) square
feet of commercial space available for sale or rent; or (ii) more than twenty-
five (25) residential units located in the same development or subdivision are
offered for sale or for lease. Such signage must be located on the property on
which the new development or building available units or commercial space are
located. Two (2) construction related and available space signs may be
installed from the date a building permit for construction of the new
development, units, or space is issued by the city until the date a certificate
of occupancy is issued for the development, units, or commercial space by the
city. After a certificate of occupancy is issued, developments or existing
properties with either (i) two thousand (2,000) square feet of commercial space
available for sale or rent; or (ii) more than twenty-five (25) residential
units located in the same development or subdivision shall only be allowed one
(1) construction related and available space sign.
         b.    Seasonal retail signs: For approved seasonal sales pursuant to a
valid temporary event seasonal retail license issued in accordance with section
4-3-4 of the municipal code. Such signage shall be located on the licensed
property and shall be allowed from the date the temporary event seasonal retail
license is issued to the last date of the sale or ninety (90) days, whichever
comes first.
      2.   Weight Limitation: Any temporary sign, regardless of exempt status,
weighing in excess of fifty (50) pounds must be approved by the zoning
administrator and conform to the requirements of the city's building code.
      3.   Projection Above Sidewalk And Setback: No temporary sign shall
extend over or into any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public thoroughfare a
distance greater than four inches (4") from the wall upon which it is erected,
and shall not be placed or project over any wall opening.
      4.   Construction: Every temporary sign shall be securely fastened to a
wall, building, other support structure by means of wire, cable, string, rope
or other suitable material.
      5.   Limitation: The advertisement contained on any temporary sign shall
pertain only to the business industry or pursuit conducted on or within the
premises on which such sign is erected or maintained. This provision shall not
apply to signs of a civic, political or religious nature. Temporary signs are
permitted if they are in conjunction with a grand opening, special sale,
promotion or similar type event.
   G.   Electronic Message Boards:
      1.   Electronic Message Board Requirements And Limitations: Electronic
message boards shall be permitted only when incorporated within a new or
existing pole sign or monument sign (this shall not include billboards except
as permitted in accordance with subsection H of this section) or when embedded
within an electric vehicle charging port. The overall sign must comply with all
existing standards and regulations as set forth in this chapter. Electronic
message boards incorporated into an approved sign shall be subject to the
standards and regulations as set forth in section
12-11-6 of this chapter.
      2.   Electronic Message Board Standards: Monument or pole signs
containing electronic message boards shall be subject to the same standards as
set forth in subsections A, "Pole Signs", and B, "Monument Signs", of this
section.
      3.   Permitted Types: Video display signs.
      4.   Prohibited Types: The following types of electronic message boards
shall be prohibited:
         a.   Animated sign.
         b.   Flashing sign.
      5.   Permitted Districts: Electronic message boards shall be permitted in
the following districts under the following conditions:
         a.   C-1 Neighborhood Shopping District as a conditional use only.
         b.   C-2 Limited Office Commercial District as a conditional use only.
         c.   C-3 General Commercial District as a permitted use.
         d.   C-4 Regional Shopping District as a permitted use.
         e.   C-5 Central Business District as a conditional use only.
         f.   C-6 Casino District as a localized alternative sign regulation
plan.
         g.   M-1 Limited Manufacturing as a permitted use.
         h.   M-2 General Manufacturing as a permitted use.
         i.   M-3 Special Manufacturing as a permitted use.
         j.   I-1 Institutional as a permitted use.
         k.   R-1 Residential as a permitted use when on school property, City-
owned property, or Park District-owned property, subject to the standards found
in subsection
12-11-6B of this chapter.
      6.   Variations: All electronic message boards shall meet all
requirements stated above and where variations are requested, the following
standards shall apply:
         a.   Variations for overall height, setback and size of the monument
or pylon pole signs, shall be subject to the same standards set forth in
section
12-11-7, "Variations", of this chapter,except that no governmental agency shall
be limited to a maximum variation request for electronic message board portions
of proposed signs when it is to be used for the conveyance of public
information. All signs shall remain subject to all other applicable sign
standards and regulations relating to the applicable sign type and district.
      7.   Qualified EMB Property Exception: In lieu of any electronic message
board allowed under the other provisions of this subsection G, one electronic
message board shall be allowed as a conditional use pursuant to section
12-3-4, "Conditional Uses", of this title on any qualified EMB property subject
to development standards for "electronic message boards for qualified EMB
property" as written in subsection
12-11-6B of this chapter:
         a.   Occupies a parcel of land of not less than fifteen (15) acres
zoned C-2 or C-3 or contiguous parcels of land of not less than fifteen (15)
acres zoned C-2 or C-3 with either vehicular cross access easements or shared
parking agreements that are recorded with the Cook County Recorder of Deeds;
         b.   Is improved with multi-story, multi-tenanted office building(s)
that have more than four hundred thousand (400,000) square feet of rentable
space;
         c.   Has a combined frontage of at least two hundred (200) linear feet
on I-90 or I-294.
   H.   Electronic Message Board Billboard: A new electronic message board
billboard may be permitted subject to the standards and regulations for both
billboards generally and electronic message board billboards set forth in
section
12-11-6 of this chapter. The static billboard panels of a qualified billboard
may be converted to electronic message board panels only pursuant to an
electronic message board billboard permit issued by the City, and subject to
the standards and regulations for electronic message board billboards set forth
in section
12-11-6 of this chapter. For the purposes of this subsection, a qualified
billboard must meet the following criteria:
      1.   The billboard was erected prior to the effective date of this
subsection. If the billboard is relocated in accordance with subsection
12-11-10C of this chapter, the date the billboard was originally erected, prior
to relocation, will be determinative.
      2.   The billboard must be a legally conforming billboard. For the
purposes of this subsection only, an applicant for an electronic message board
billboard permit may establish that the existing billboard is legally
conforming by either:
         a.   Providing proof that the existing billboard was erected pursuant
to a valid permit issued by the City; or
         b.   Providing documentation to show that the existing billboard
conforms with all of the standards and regulations as set forth for billboards
in section
12-11-6 of this chapter except for the permit requirement.
         c.   Notwithstanding section
12-11-10 of this chapter, if a billboard is not legally conforming in
accordance with subsection H2a or H2b of this section, the removal and
replacement of the sign in the same location for the sole purpose of converting
the static panels to electronic message board panels is permitted only as a
conditional use pursuant to section
12-3-4 of this title, and subject to the standards and regulations for
electronic message board billboards as set forth in section
12-11-6 of this chapter.
      3.   The billboard must have a valid IDOT sign permit.
      4.   The billboard must be located within six hundred sixty feet (660')
of I-90 or I-294.
   I.    Portable A-Frame Signs:
      1.    Materials: A-frame signs shall be constructed of durable plastic,
metal, wood, or other approved non-combustible materials. The sign shall be
constructed so as to not blow away.
      2.    Location: An A-frame sign shall be located no farther than fifteen
(15) feet from the main customer entrance of the business advertised on the A-
frame sign and within such business' tenant frontage. A-frame signs located
within the public right-of-way shall only be approved when a license agreement
is executed between the sign owner and the zoning administrator. The A-frame
sign shall not be located within a path required for ADA accessibility and all
A-frame sign elements shall be located at least three (3) feet away from the
curb of any roadway.
      3.    Time and Duration: An A-frame sign shall only be displayed during
the hours of business operation. A sign permit is required for each A-frame
sign and each permit is valid for one (1) year.
   J.    Marquee Signs:
      1.    Materials: Marquee signs shall be constructed of metal, aluminum or
other durable, non-combustible materials and shall be attached to the primary
structure.
      2.    Location: A marquee sign shall be constructed above the main
customer entrance of a commercial theatre.
      3.    Projection Above Sidewalk and Setback: Marquee signs may be allowed
to project onto the public right-of-way subject to the approval of the zoning
administrator, but the edge of the sign shall be setback at least one foot (1')
from the curb of the roadway. (Ord. Z-24-05, 8-29-2005; amd. Ord. Z-10-11, 5-2-
2011; Ord. Z-8-14, 4-7-2014; Ord. Z-14-15, 7-6-2015; Ord. Z-9-16, 6-6-2016;
Ord. Z-21-17, 9-18-2017; Ord. Z-17-2018, 6-18-2018; Ord. Z-17-19, 7-1-2019;
Ord. Z-16-20, 8-3-2020; Ord. Z-55-21, 12-6-2021; Ord. Z-36-2022, 11-21-2022;
Ord. Z-52-21, 12-6-2021)
12-11-6: REGULATION BY DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION:
   A.   Residential Districts, Including The MH-1 Mobile Home Park District: It
shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain a sign in any
residential district or the MH-1 Mobile Home Park District, except as follows:
Sign Type Number, Area, Height,
          And Other Limitations
Sign Type                          Number, Area, Height,
                                   And Other Limitations
Exempt                             See subsection
                                   12-11-3G of this chapter.
                                   Two signs are permitted for new
                                   developments or existing properties with
                                   more than 25 residential units located
                                   in the same development or subdivision,
                                   construction related and available space
                                   signs may be installed as specifically
                                   permitted by section
                                   12-11-5.F of this chapter. Each sign
Construction related and available shall not exceed 64 square feet in area
space signs, temporary             and six feet in height. If such signs
                                   are affixed to a building, then the
                                   signs shall not be located above the
                                   second floor of the primary building and
                                   shall not cover any opening. Such
                                   signage shall not be externally or
                                   internally illuminated. One sign is
                                   permitted in instances as identified in
                                   section
                                   12-11-5.F of this chapter.
                                   One sign is permitted per the approved
                                   seasonal retail sales license. The sign
                                   shall not exceed 64 square feet in area
                                   and six feet in height. Such signage
Seasonal retail sign, temporary    shall not be externally or internally
                                   illuminated and are subject to
                                   additional regulations set forth in
                                   section
                                   12-11-5.F of this chapter.
                                   1 sign.
                                   The sign shall consist of no more than
                                   65 square feet in area and a height of
                                   no more than 5 feet. Such signage shall
Monument - entrance                not be externally illuminated.
                                   Internally illuminated signs shall
                                   comply with section
                                   12-12-10 of this title.
                                   Permitted for single-family residential
                                   developments.
                                   1 sign.
                                   The sign shall consist of no more than
                                   65 sq. ft. in area and a height of no
Monument - identification          more than 5'.
                                   Permitted for places of worship, multi-
                                   family residential buildings or
                                   complexes.
 
   B.   Commercial, Manufacturing And Institutional Districts: It shall be
unlawful for any person to construct or maintain a sign in any commercial
district, manufacturing district, or the I-1 Institutional District, except as
follows. A property may incorporate both wall and monument signs or wall and
pole signs. The use of monument signs in conjunction with pole signs is
prohibited; provided, however, if a property is eligible to contain two pole
signs or two monument signs, then the property may construct a combination of a
pole sign and a monument sign as long as each sign is at least 200 feet apart.
Monument or pole signs containing electronic message boards shall be subject to
the same standards as set forth in this subsection, except that only one
electronic message board will be permitted per lot. In the event that a single
business exists on multiple lots or in the case of a business park or retail
center, only one electronic message board will be permitted overall.
Sign Type Number, Area, Height, And Other Limitations2
Sign Type    Number, Area, Height, And Other Limitations2
             Awnings may display signage on up to 25% of the area of the front
             of the awning. The sign area of each awning sign shall be included
             in the calculation of the maximum wall sign area permitted on the
             building on which the awning sign is installed, as set forth in
Awnings      this section. Awning signs shall not be internally illuminated. If
             an awning is installed on a building that is located adjacent to a
             residential zoning district, any awning sign installed on a non-
             street facing facade of the building that faces the residential
             zoning district shall not be externally illuminated.
             Billboards shall be permitted only within the C-1, C-2, C-3, C-6,
             M-1, M-2 and I-1 Districts and located within 660 feet of I-90 and
             I-294 toll roads.
             Structure must be in compliance with the Illinois Department of
             Transportation regulations and a valid current IDOT permit must be
             presented with the application for city permits.
             In the C-6 District, the number of permits issued for billboards
             pursuant to subsection
             12-11-3.C.3, "Billboard Permits", of this chapter is specifically
             limited to one. In all other districts of the City combined, the
             total number of permits for billboards under subsection
             12-11-3.C.3, "Billboard Permits", of this chapter is specifically
             limited to 13; provided, however, the 13th billboard permit may be
             issued by the City only in accordance with Ordinance Z-53-21.
             In the C-6 District, a billboard may have three faces; provided,
             however, that two of the three faces shall not exceed 1,200 sq.
             ft., the third face shall not exceed 600 sq. ft, and the total
Billboards   sign face area shall not exceed 3,000 sq. ft. In all other
             districts of the City, the total surface area of the signs shall
             not exceed 1,200 sq. ft. per face and 2,400 total square feet for
             a double faced sign.
             Height of the sign shall not exceed 99 feet from the base of the
             pole to the top of the structure or 65 feet from the surface of
             the pavement of the lane closest to the structure, except as
             otherwise provided by a limited variation ordinance adopted by
             Council.
             All billboards must meet the spacing requirements as required by
             the Illinois Advertising Control Act.
             No portion of a billboard shall be allowed within 300 feet of a
             residential property line. This distance shall be measured at
             ground level from a line perpendicular to the closest part of the
             billboard to the residential property line.
             A billboard for which a permit record does not exist but otherwise
             meets all of development standards for billboards as set forth in
             this subsection B is a legally conforming billboard for the
             purposes of this chapter.
             1 sign not exceeding 12" in height shall be permitted on the front
             and side portions of any canopy. Freestanding canopies, such as
             those found at a gasoline service station, may only display
             signage on the vertical portion of the canopy. The sign area of
             canopy signs attached to a building shall be included in the
             calculation of the maximum wall sign area permitted on the
Canopies     building, as set forth in this section. If a canopy is installed
             on a building that is located adjacent to a residential zoning
             district, or if a freestanding canopy is located adjacent to a
             residential zoning district, any canopy sign installed on a non-
             street facing facade of the building or of the freestanding canopy
             that faces the residential zoning district shall not be
             illuminated.
             Two drive-through menu board signs are permitted adjacent or
             leading up to each ordering point for any lawfully established
Drive-       drive-through facility. The combined sign area of the drive
Through Menu through menu board signs shall not exceed 60 square feet. A drive-
Board Sign:  through menu board sign may not exceed six feet in height. A two-
             foot radius of landscaping shall be provided around the base of
             each a drive-through menu board sign.
             The electronic message board panel must not exceed the square
             footage of the static panel replaced by the electronic message
             board panel or 1,200 sq. ft., whichever is less.
             The electronic message board panel must face away from and may not
             direct light onto any residentially zoned lot or lot improved with
             residential structure.
             The electronic message board must be adequately screened from any
             residential zoning district.
             The electronic message board panel may only face the I-90 or I-294
             rights-of-way.
             The applicant must submit an affidavit stating that all required
             permits or approvals from IDOT, the FAA, or any other government
             or regulatory agency or body with proper jurisdiction, have been
             obtained for the proposed electronic message board billboard.
             The images and text displayed on the electronic message board may
             be changed no more frequently than once every 10 seconds or as
             established by Federal or State guidelines for digital signage
             along an interstate, whichever is greater. Each change must be
             completed in 1 second or less.
             Sounds, animation, moving video, flashing, blinking, spinning, or
             any other appearance of movement are prohibited.
             The sign must possess an ambient light sensor and utilize
             automatic dimming capabilities so that the maximum luminescence
             level is not more than 0.3 foot candle over ambient light levels
             measured as close to perpendicular to the sign face as possible
             and measured from the appropriate distance as set forth in the
             table below:
             Sign  Distance From
Electronic   Face  Which To Measure
message      Size
board        Under
billboards   300
             sq.
             ft.
             300 -
             385
             sq.   150'
             ft.   200'
             386 - 250'
             680   350'
             sq.
             ft.
             681 -
             1,200
             sq.
             ft.
             The applicant, with written permission from the landowner, must
             apply for and obtain the following permits from the City prior to
             performing any alterations to the existing billboard: 1) a
             building permit for the electronic message board panels and
             support structure; and 2) an electronic message board billboard
             sign permit. Plans prepared by a licensed structural engineer must
             be submitted with the permit application.
             City sponsored messages must be made available for display on the
             electronic message board on a regular rotation, as determined by
             agreement between the City and the applicant. City sponsored
             messages include without limitation Amber Alerts, FBI wanted
             messages, weather alerts, and messages promoting City sponsored
             events. The City sponsored messages will be displayed at no cost
             to the City.
             Electronic message boards shall not exceed 50% of the total sign
             area. When embedded within an electric vehicle charging port, an
             electronic message board may not exceed six square feet.
             Electronic message boards may comprise up to 100% of the total
             sign area of a drive-through menu board sign; provided, however,
             the sign must comply with the maximum sign area allowance for
             drive-through menu board signs.
             Excluding those electronic message boards embedded within electric
             vehicle charging ports and drive-through menu board signs, only 1
             electronic message board will be permitted per lot. In the event
             that a single business exists on multiple lots or in the case of a
             business park or retail center, only 1 electronic message board
             will be permitted overall.
             Location: The animated face of an electronic message board sign
Electronic   shall be a minimum of 250' away from a residence in the R-1, R-2,
message      and R-3 Residential Districts and shall be arranged to prevent
boards       direct glare onto any adjacent properties.
                1. Institutional District is exempt from this standard.
                2. LED illumination of the numerical pricing component of
             gasoline station signs are exempt from this location standard.
             Video display signs are permitted.
             The changeable copy shall be specific to the business in which the
             sign was intended.
             No sounds will be permitted.
             Automatic dimming: Electronic message board signs shall be
             equipped with light sensing devices or a scheduled dimming timer
             which automatically dims the intensity of the light emitted by the
             sign during ambient low light and nighttime (dusk to dawn)
             conditions. The signs shall not exceed 500 nits of intensity as
             measured at the sign surface during nighttime and low light
             conditions and 5,000 nits during daytime hours.
             Digital electronic message board displays shall not exceed 500 sq.
             ft. per side and shall not be more than 45' in height.
             Only 1 electronic message board will be permitted per qualified
             EMB property.
             The changeable copy may not be animated, however graphics of
             stationary objects with no movement or animation shall be allowed.
             The copy may be changed no more than once every 7.5 seconds or as
             established by Federal or State guidelines for digital signage
             along an interstate, whichever is greater.
             The changeable copy shall be specific to the businesses or
             organizations residing on the qualified EMB property. For this
             purpose, a "tenant" is a person(s) or entity with a lease for a
Electronic   term of at least 3 years, actually occupies space and has a fully
message      functioning office of at least 500 sq. ft.
boards for   The changeable commercial copy may be substituted at any time,
qualified    without any approval of the City, with a noncommercial message.
EMB property The purpose of this section is to prevent any inadvertent favoring
             of commercial speech over noncommercial speech or favoring of any
             particular noncommercial speech over any other noncommercial
             speech. This section prevails over any more specific provision to
             the contrary.
             No sounds will be permitted.
             Structure must be in compliance with the Illinois Department of
             Transportation regulations and if required a valid current IDOT
             permit must be presented with the application for City permits.
             Electronic message boards must be located between I-90 or I-294
             and the structures on the qualified EMB property.
             Electronic message board displays must be screened from any
             residentially zoned property.
Exempt       See subsection
             12-11-3G of this chapter.
             Buildings located on lots with frontage on an interstate highway
             shall be allowed a maximum of 1 sign, of up to 150 sq. ft., per
Interstate   building face that is visible from the interstate highway.
highway wall No more than 2 interstate highway wall signs are allowed per
sign         building and both signs on a single building shall be limited to
             identifying either the principal building tenant or identification
             of the building or group of buildings.
             Interstate highway wall signs must be individual letter signs.
             Only one marquee sign shall be allowed on a commercial theatre.
             Signage shall be allowed on each of the three projecting faces of
             the marquee sign; however, the front-facing main entrance sign
             panel shall not exceed 300 square feet and the side face panels
             shall not exceed 150 square feet. Electronic message board sign
             panels are allowed on all three sign faces, but shall not exceed
Marquee      30 percent of the respective sign face. Such signs are only
             allowed on commercial theaters located in C-3 and C-5 Districts.
             The maximum height of the marquee sign above finished grade shall
             be 30 feet and shall have a minimum height clearance of eight feet
             from finished grade. Marquee signs are subject to additional
             regulations set forth in section
             12-11-5.J of this chapter.
             Each lawfully established Class A Restaurant, Class B Restaurant,
             Tavern, Brewpub and Brewery may have one menu board wall sign. A
             menu board walls sign must be located within six horizontal feet
Menu Board   of the main customer entrance of the subject establishment and
Wall Sign:   shall not exceed five square feet in area. The menu board wall
             sign shall be attached to the subject building wall and be encased
             with permanent materials such as tempered glass, wood and metal.
             Such sign shall only be internally illuminated.
Monument:
  Lots       Maximum number: 1 sign.
  having     Maximum sign area: 80 sq. ft. for monument signs.
  more than
  75' of
  street
  frontage   Maximum height: 5'.
  on a
  single
  street or
  highway
  Lots       Maximum number: 1 sign.
  having     Maximum sign area: The area of a sign may be increased by 1 sq.
  more than  ft. for every 1' of street frontage over 12', provided, the
  120' of    maximum sign area shall not exceed 100 sq. ft.
  street
  frontage
  on a       Maximum height: 5'.
  single
  street
  Lots       Maximum number: 2 signs.
  having     Maximum sign area: The area of a sign may be increased by 1 sq.
  more than  ft. for every 1' of street frontage over 300' provided, the
  300' of    maximum sign area does not exceed 120 sq. ft. for any 1 sign or
  street     200 sq. ft. for both signs.
  frontage
  on a       Maximum height: A height allowance of 1' for every 3 additional
  single     feet of setback provided may be allowed provided, the maximum
  street or  height does not exceed 10'.
  highway
  Where a    Maximum number: 2 signs.
  lot fronts Maximum sign area: The area of a sign may be increased by 1 sq.
  on 2       ft. for every 1' of street frontage over 300' provided, the
  streets    maximum sign area does not exceed 120 sq. ft. for any 1 sign or
  and the    200 sq. ft. for both signs.
  frontage
  of the
  shortest
  side and   Maximum height: A height allowance of 1' for every 3 additional
  1/2 of the feet of setback provided may be allowed provided, the maximum
  longest    height does not exceed 10'.
  side
  exceeds
  300'
  Lots of 5  Maximum number: 3 signs.
  acres or   Maximum sign area: The maximum sign area shall not exceed 200 sq.
  more and   ft. for any 1 sign or 350 sq. ft. for all signs.
  having
  300' of
  street     Maximum height: A height allowance of 1 sq. ft. for every 3
  frontage   additional feet of setback provided may be allowed provided, the
  on a       maximum height does not exceed 10'.
  single
  street or
  highway
Pole:
  Lots       Maximum number: 1 sign.
  having     Maximum sign area: 75 sq. ft.
  more than
  75' of
  street
  frontage   Maximum height: 20'.
  on a
  single
  street or
  highway
  Lots       Maximum number: 1 sign.
  having     Maximum sign area: The area of a sign may be increased by 1 sq.
  more than  ft. for every 1' of street frontage over 120', provided, the
  120' of    maximum sign area shall not exceed 90 sq. ft.
  street
  frontage
  on a       Maximum height: 20'.
  single
  street
  Lots       Maximum number: 2 signs.
  having     Maximum sign area: The area of the sign may be increased by 1 sq.
  more than  ft. for every 1' of street frontage over 300' provided, the
  300' of    maximum sign area does not exceed 110 sq. ft. for any 1 sign or
  street     200 sq. ft. for both signs.
  frontage   Maximum height: A height allowance of 1' for every 3 additional
  on a       feet of setback provided may be allowed provided, the maximum
  single     height does not exceed 28'.
  street or  Minimum separation: 200' apart.
  highway
  Where a    Maximum number: 2 signs.
  lot fronts Maximum sign area: The area of the sign may be increased by 1 sq.
  on 2       ft. for every 1' of street frontage over 300' provided, the
  streets    maximum sign area does not exceed 110 sq. ft. for any 1 sign or
  and the    200 sq. ft. for both signs.
  frontage   Maximum height: A height allowance of 1' for every 3 additional
  of the     feet of setback provided may be allowed provided, the maximum
  shortest   height does not exceed 28'.
  side and
  1/2 of the
  longest    Minimum separation: 200' apart.
  side
  exceeds
  300'
  Lots of 5  Maximum number: 3 signs.
  acres or   Maximum sign area: The maximum sign area shall not exceed 200 sq.
  more and   ft. for any 1 sign or 550 sq. ft. for all signs.
  having     Maximum height: A height allowance of 1' for every 3 additional
  300' of    feet of setback provided may be allowed provided, the maximum
  street     height does not exceed 35'.
  frontage
  on a
  single     Minimum separation: 200' apart.
  street or
  highway
             A-frame signs shall be no more than three feet in height and no
             more than six square feet in area per face. The maximum allowable
             number of faces allowed per sign shall be two. Only one A-frame
             sign shall be allowed per business located on the ground floor of
Portable, A- a building. Multiple businesses that share the same address shall
Frame        either share the sign area within the one allowed A-frame sign or
             the A-frame permit issuance shall be based on a first-come-first-
             serve basis. Such signs are only allowed in C-3, C-4 and C-
             5 Districts and are subject to additional regulations set forth in
             section
             12-11-5.I of this chapter.
             No more than 1 sign may be erected at 1 location at any given time
Temporary:   and no more than 4 signs may be erected at 1 location over the
             course on any calendar year, except as provided in the
             subcategories below. No temporary sign shall exceed 64 sq. ft.
             Two signs are permitted where new developments or existing
             properties with either (i) 2,000 square feet of commercial space
             available for sale or rent; or (ii) more than 25 residential units
Construction located in the same development or subdivision, construction
and related  related and available space signs are permitted as set forth in
and          section
available    12-11-5.F of this chapter. Each sign shall not exceed 64 square
space signs, feet in area and six feet in height. If such signs are affixed to
temporary    a building, then the signs shall not be located above the second
             floor of the primary building and shall not cover any opening.
             Such signage shall not be externally or internally illuminated.
             One sign is permitted in instances as identified in section
             12-11-5.F of this chapter.
             One sign is permitted per the approved seasonal retail sales
Seasonal     license. The sign shall not exceed 64 square feet in area and six
retail sign, feet in height. Such signage shall not be externally or internally
temporary    illuminated and are subject to additional regulations set forth in
             section
             12-11-5.F of this chapter.
Wall signs1:
             Building elevations that do not face a street or public highway
             may have 1 wall sign. If a building is located adjacent to a
             residential zoning district, any wall sign installed on a non-
             street facing elevation of the building that faces the residential
             zoning district shall not be illuminated. The total sign area
             (including the area of any awning or canopy signs) permitted on
             any non-street facing elevation shall not exceed 1 sq. ft. of sign
             area per linear foot of horizontal building face. The total sign
  Non-street area (including the area of any awning or canopy signs) permitted
 facing     on an entire building (including all elevations) shall not exceed
  wall signs 125 sq. ft. unless the building is a shopping center or office
             building containing three or more businesses. Shopping centers may
             exceed 125 square feet in signage, but each tenant shall not
             exceed 125 square feet in total sign area. Office buildings
             containing three or more businesses are permitted to have up to
             200 square feet of wall signage for the entire building (for all
             elevations); provided however that no wall signs located on an
             office building shall face an abutting residentially zoned
             property. The total maximum number of wall signs permitted on an
             office building containing three or more businesses is three.
             Building elevations that face a street or public highway may have
             up to 2 wall signs. The total sign area (including the area of any
             awning or canopy signs) permitted on any street facing elevation
             shall not exceed 3 sq. ft. per linear foot of horizontal building
             face. The total sign area (including the area of any awning or
             canopy signs) permitted on an entire building (including all
  Street     elevations) shall not exceed 125 sq. ft. unless such building is a
 facing     shopping center or office building containing three or more
  wall signs businesses. Shopping centers may exceed 125 square feet in
             signage, but each tenant shall not exceed 125 sq. ft. in total
             sign area. Office buildings containing three or more businesses
             are permitted to have up to 200 square feet of wall signage for
             the entire building (for all elevations). The total maximum number
             of allowed wall signs on an office building containing three or
             more businesses is three.
Window       2 signs per window. Total sign area not to exceed 50% of window
(permanent)  surface area.
 
   Notes:
      1.   In the case where there are multiple uses in a single structure
(i.e., commercial strip shopping center) 1 wall sign is permitted for each
business, however the aggregate total square footage of all signs shall not
exceed the limits set forth in this section.
      2.   On parcels less than 5 acres, the total square footage area of all
signs shall not exceed 600 square feet; provided, however, that the calculation
of the maximum sign area shall not include the area of any static and
electronic message board billboards on the parcel."
(Ord. Z-24-05, 8-29-2005; amd. Ord. Z-11-07, 3-19-2007; Ord. Z-23-07, 9-17-
2007; Ord. Z-10-11, 5-2-2011; Ord. Z-27-11, 9-19-2011; Ord. Z-17-14, 8-4-2014;
Ord. Z-32-14, 12-15-2014; Ord. Z-14-15, 7-6-2015; Ord. Z-9-16, 6-6-2016; Ord.
Z-29-16, 12-5-2016; Ord. Z-21-17, 9-18-2017; Ord. Z-17-19, 7-1- 2019; Z-4-20,
1-21-2020; Ord Z-16-20, 8-3-2020; Ord. Z-52-21, 12-6-2021; Ord. Z-55-21, 12-6-
2021; Ord. Z-33-22, 11-7-2022; Ord. Z-36-22, 11-21-2022)
12-11-7: VARIATIONS:
A variation from the strict application of these provisions may be sought
pursuant to section
12-3-6, "Variations", of this title. However, no variation may be granted which
increases any dimension (height, length, width or area) to an amount over fifty
percent (50%) of the corresponding dimensions normally permitted by this
chapter. (Ord. Z-27-11, 9-19-2011)
12-11-8: LOCALIZED ALTERNATIVE SIGN REGULATIONS:
   A.   Authority: Commercial shopping centers and multi-building commercial or
institutional developments including, without limitation, office parks,
universities, colleges, medical centers, planned unit developments, may
establish a localized alternative sign regulation plan for their property
subject to review and approval by the Planning and Zoning Board pursuant to the
procedures for conditional uses found in section
12-3-4, “Conditional Uses”, of this title.
   B.   Application: Applications for a localized alternative sign regulation
plan shall be filed in accordance with the requirements of section
12-3-4, "Conditional Uses", of this title.
   C.   Sign Plan: No localized alternative sign regulation plan shall be
approved by a conditional use permit unless the regulations set forth in the
plan and made part of the conditional use permit are binding on all real
property and premises in the plan area.
   D.   Adherence: If approved, the localized alternative sign regulation plan
limits and controls the use and location of signs on the subject property and
must be observed by the persons affected in lieu of compliance with section
12-11-7 of this chapter.
   E.   Changes to Localized Alternative Sign Regulation Plans After Approval:
Any changes to signs on a property for which a local alternative sign
regulation plan has already been approved require the approval and recordation
of a new alternative sign regulation plan for the property as follows:
      1.   "Major Changes": Major changes are modifications that alter the
concept or intent of the Localized Alternative Sign Regulation or include signs
that do not meet the standards for the respective sign type(s) in the
underlying zoning district, including, without limitation, the following:
         a.   The addition of new signs that exceed or otherwise do not conform
to district regulations regarding sign type, quantity, size, location, or
design;
         b.   The relocation of any existing sign to a location that would not
be permitted by the regulations for the underlying district or sign type;
         c.   The increase in height or area of any existing sign beyond the
allowable limits of the underlying district or sign type; and
         d.   The conversion or replacement of any existing signs to a
different sign type, including but not limited to from unilluminated to
internal illumination or static to electronic messaging; provided, however,
that changes in material, color, or copy alone may be categorized as Minor
Changes upon a determination of the Director of Community and Economic
Development.
      Major changes require the submission by the applicant of a new local
alternative sign regulation plan application that will be processed and
approved in the same manner as required of an original application.
      2.   "Minor Changes": Minor changes are modifications that are not
defined as major changes, do not alter the concept or intent of a Localized
Alternative Sign Regulation, and conform with the sign regulations in the
underlying zoning district. The Director of Community and Economic Development
may approve minor changes to a local alternative sign regulation plan through
the administrative adjustment process without the review or approval of the
Planning and Zoning Board or City Council. The Department of Community and
Economic Development will maintain records of all approved minor changes to
local alternative sign regulation plans.
      3.   Recordation and Binding Effect: The amended local alternative sign
regulation plan must be recorded with the county recorder's office and is
binding on the applicants, their successors, grantees and assigns. (Ord. Z-16-
12, 6-4-2012; amd. Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015; Ord. Z-12-23, 7-17-2023)
12-11-9: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement Authority: The Zoning Administrator is hereby authorized to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Inspection: The Zoning Administrator may inspect, at such times as he
deems necessary, each sign or sign structure regulated by this chapter for the
purpose of ascertaining whether the sign is in compliance with this chapter or
any other relevant City Code, law or ordinance.
   C.   Unsafe And Unlawful Signs:
      1.   Duty To Remove Or Repair:
         a.   Should the Zoning Administrator find any sign regulated by this
chapter to be unsafe, unlawful, or a menace to the public, or constructed,
erected, or maintained in violation of the provisions of this chapter, he shall
cause notice to be given to the holder of the permit.
         b.   If the holder of the permit should fail to remove the sign or
bring the sign or other advertising structure into compliance, the Zoning
Administrator may cause, at the holder's or property owner's expense, the sign
or other advertising structure to be removed or brought into compliance.
         c.   If the holder or owner fails to pay the costs and expenses of
such repair or removal within thirty (30) days of the notice, then such costs
and expenses shall become a lien against the property. In addition, the Zoning
Administrator shall refuse to issue a sign permit to any holder or owner who
refuses to pay the costs and expenses assessed under this provision.
      2.   Unlawful Signs: Unlawful signs, regardless of type, shall be removed
within twenty four (24) hours of the time when notice was perfected.
      3.   Signs Causing Immediate Peril: The Zoning Administrator may cause
any sign or other advertising structure which is in immediate peril to persons
or property to be removed summarily without notice.
   D.   Signs No Longer In Use:
      1.   Removal: Any sign advertising a defunct business, or an unavailable
product or service, shall be taken down and removed by the owner, agent, or
person having the control of the premises upon which the sign is located.
      2.   Notice: The Zoning Administrator shall give notice to the owner or
to any person occupying the property that the sign on his premises is in
violation.
      3.   Failure To Comply: Failure to comply with the notice within the time
specified shall cause the Zoning Administrator to authorize removal. Expenses
related to removal shall be the responsibility of the owner of the premises
upon which such sign is located.
      4.   Lien: The Zoning Administrator shall notify the owner or occupant of
the premises of the total costs incurred for such repair or removal of the
sign. If the owner or occupant fails to pay the costs and expenses of such
repair or removal within thirty (30) days of the notice, then such costs and
expenses shall become a lien against the property. (Ord. Z-24-05, 8-29-2005)
12-11-10: SIGNS NOT CONFORMING TO THIS CHAPTER:
   A.   Authority To Continue: Any lawful sign located within the City at the
effective date hereof which does not conform to the provisions of this chapter,
may continue provided, the sign remains in conformance with the provisions of
this section.
   B.   Conditions Of Lawful Status: For the purposes of this chapter, legal
nonconforming status shall be conferred only on signs authorized by a sign
permit or variance of a preceding ordinance, Code, or law; or if no sign permit
was required under the applicable preceding laws, the sign was otherwise in
compliance with the requirements of the preceding ordinance, Code, or law.
(Ord. Z-24-05, 8-29-2005)
   C.   Loss Of Lawful Status: Legal nonconforming status shall terminate if a
sign is structurally altered such that its nonconforming aspects increase; or
the sign is relocated, replaced, or moved in any way; or the sign is damaged
and the cost of repair is fifty percent (50%) of its replacement value; or
where an application for development review is filed for the property on which
the sign is located. Upon the happening of any of the aforementioned events,
the sign shall be immediately brought into compliance with this chapter in
conjunction with a new sign permit or the sign shall be removed. For the
purpose of this subsection the changing of copy shall not be considered the
replacement of an existing legal nonconforming sign. Legal nonconforming status
shall not terminate for a billboard sign that is required to be removed by a
governmental agency for the purpose of roadway construction; provided, however,
that the relocated billboard sign shall be constructed no later than one year
after the removal of the original billboard sign, shall be located within five
hundred feet (500') of the location of the original billboard sign, and shall
conform to all of the standards and requirements for billboards set forth in
subsection
12-11-6B of this chapter, but shall not be subject to the limitation on the
number of billboards permitted. (Ord. Z-15-15, 5-4-2015)
   D.   Ordinary Maintenance And Repair: Nothing in this section shall relieve
the owner or beneficial user of a legal nonconforming sign, or the owner of the
property on which the legal nonconforming sign is located from the provisions
of this chapter regarding safety, maintenance, and repair. Normal maintenance,
including repainting, cleaning, or routine repair of a legal nonconforming sign
shall not be deemed to be a condition which triggers a loss of lawful status
described above, unless such maintenance increases, in fact, the nonconforming
aspects of the sign. (Ord. Z-24-05, 8-29-2005)
12-11-11: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
All rights and privileges acquired under the provisions of this chapter are
mere licenses and are revocable at any time by the City. Revocation of a sign
permit will be in accordance with chapter 4, "Enforcement And Penalties", of
this title. Except where needed to determine if a sign meets the requirements
set forth in this chapter, no official or employee of the City shall consider
the content of a proposed sign when considering granting of a permit or taking
any governmental action regarding the proposed sign. (Ord. Z-24-05, 8-29-2005)
CHAPTER 12
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
12-12-1: Application Of Performance Standards
12-12-2: Enforcement
12-12-3: Toxic Matter
12-12-4: Fire And Explosion Hazards
12-12-5: Glare Or Heat
12-12-6: Odor
12-12-7: Nuisance
12-12-8: Noise
12-12-9: Vibration
12-12-10: Light
12-12-11: Electromagnetic Interference
12-12-12: Water Pollution
12-12-13: Dust And Air Pollution
12-12-14: Outdoor Storage
12-12-1: APPLICATION OF PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
All uses shall comply with the performance standards established in this
chapter, unless any Federal, State, County, or local ordinance, law, or
regulation establishes a more restrictive standard, in which event the more
restrictive standard shall apply. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-12-2: ENFORCEMENT:
Enforcement of the performance standards shall be the duty of the Zoning
Administrator pursuant to chapter 4, "Enforcement And Penalties", of this
title. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-12-3: TOXIC MATTER:
The storage, handling, or transport of toxic substances shall comply with State
of Illinois rules and regulations regarding the storage, handling, or transport
of toxic material. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-12-4: FIRE AND EXPLOSION HAZARDS:
Materials that present potential fire and explosive hazards shall be
transported, stored and used only in conformance with all applicable Federal,
State, and local laws. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-12-5: GLARE OR HEAT:
Any operation producing intense glare or heat shall be performed within a
completely enclosed building or structure in such a manner as not to create a
public nuisance or hazard along lot lines. No objectionable or annoying glare
or heat resulting from plant operations which is perceptible beyond the lot
lines shall be created. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-12-6: ODOR:
Emission of noxious, objectionable or annoying odor in such quantities as to be
detectable at any point along a lot boundary is prohibited. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-
1998)
12-12-7: NUISANCE:
No use shall be operated or maintained which creates an environmental detriment
or public nuisance, including, but not limited to, visual clutter created by
excessive signage, lighting, or outdoor storage; noise or odors as defined
herein; or other noise and odors such as those created by pets or garbage.
(Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-12-8: NOISE:
Any activity or operation of any use producing noise shall be operated in
compliance with section
6-2-7 of the City Code. (Ord. Z-23-14, 10-20-2014)
12-12-9: VIBRATION:
No earthborne vibration from any operations of any use shall be detectable at
any point off the zoning lot on which the use is located. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-
1998)
12-12-10: LIGHT:
All structures, properties and off-street parking areas with outdoor lighting
shall limit light spillage onto adjacent property. Maximum horizontal foot-
candles as given off by the neighboring property as measured at the abutting
property line in the following districts shall not exceed: (Ord. Z-36-18, 12-3-
2018)
 
Districts                                 Foot-Candles
Single-family residential districts       0.1
Multiple-family residential districts     0.2
Commercial districts                      2.0
Manufacturing and institutional districts 5.0
 
(Ord. Z-14-15, 7-6-2015)
12-12-11: ELECTROMAGNETIC INTERFERENCE:
Electromagnetic interference from any operations of any use in any district
shall not adversely affect the operation of any equipment located off the
zoning lot on which such interference originates. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-12-12: WATER POLLUTION:
All uses shall comply with the state of Illinois rules and regulations
regarding prevention of water pollution. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-12-13: DUST AND AIR POLLUTION:
   A.   Dust and other types of air pollution borne by the wind from sources
such as storage areas, yards, roads, conveying equipment and the like within
lot boundaries shall be kept to a minimum by appropriate landscaping,
screening, sheltering, paving, oiling, fencing, wetting, collecting or other
acceptable means.
   B.   No person shall cause or allow the emission of fugitive particulate
matter across lot lines which is visible by an observer looking generally
toward the zenith, beyond the property line. This requirement shall not apply
when the wind speed is greater than 40.2 kilometers per hour (25 miles per
hour). Determinations of wind speed for the purposes of this rule shall be by a
one hour average or hourly recorded value at the nearest official station of
the U.S. weather bureau or by wind speed instruments operated on the site.
(Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-12-14: OUTDOOR STORAGE:
Outdoor storage of fuel, raw materials and products within two hundred feet
(200') of a residential district, shall be enclosed by a fence, wall or plant
materials adequate to conceal such storage from adjacent properties and public
right of way. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
CHAPTER 13
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
12-13-1: Definitions Generally
12-13-2: Rules For Generic Use Definitions
12-13-3: Definition Of Terms
12-13-1: DEFINITIONS GENERALLY:
The terms and words defined in this chapter shall have the meanings herein
ascribed to them.
   A.   Undefined Terms: Any words not defined in this chapter shall be
construed as defined in normal dictionary usage.
   B.   Tense And Form: Words used or defined in one tense or form shall
include other tenses and derivative forms.
   C.   Number: Words in the singular number shall include the plural number,
and words in the plural number shall include the singular number.
   D.   Gender: The masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter. The
feminine gender shall include the masculine and neuter. The neuter gender shall
include the masculine and feminine.
   E.   Time: The time within which any act required by this title is to be
performed shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last
day, unless the last day is a Saturday or Sunday or a holiday declared by the
United States Congress or the Illinois General Assembly, in which event it
shall also be excluded. The word "day" shall mean a calendar day, unless
otherwise indicated.
   F.   Person: The word "person" includes individuals, firms, partnerships,
joint ventures, trusts, trustees, estates, corporations, associations, and any
other similar entities.
   G.   Captions, Illustrations, And Tables: In case of any difference of
meaning or implication between the text of this title and any caption,
illustration, or table, the text shall control and no caption, illustration, or
table shall be construed to limit the scope or intent of the text of this
title. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-13-2: RULES FOR GENERIC USE DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Purpose Of Generic Use Definitions: Certain terms in this chapter are
defined to be inclusive of many uses in order to eliminate overly detailed
listings of uses in the zoning districts established by this title. These terms
shall be referred to in this title as "generic" definitions.
   B.   Components Of Generic Use Definitions: A generic definition has three
(3) components: 1) a brief listing of examples of uses intended to be included
within the scope of the definition; 2) an identification (where appropriate) of
certain uses that are not meant to be included by the term; and 3) a statement
that for the purposes of each zoning district, any other uses specifically
listed within the particular zoning district shall not be construed as falling
within the generic definition.
   C.   Uses Not Listed Or Not Within Scope Of Generic Use Definitions: A use
that is not specifically listed in a zoning district or does not fall within a
generic definition as defined in this chapter, or as interpreted by the Zoning
Administrator pursuant to section
12-3-8 of this title, is prohibited. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-13-3: DEFINITION OF TERMS:
For the purposes of this title, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
ACCESSORY OFF SITE PARKING LOT: A lot of record used for off street vehicle
parking or storage that does not abut the lot of record on which the primary
use is located. The accessory off site parking lot and the lot on which the
primary use is located must be under the same ownership. Such use shall only be
utilized for establishments located within the City of Des Plaines. “Accessory
off-site parking lot” shall not include any use that is otherwise listed
specifically in a zoning district as an allowable conditional use. No signage
shall be allowed on an accessory off site parking lot except for a 24-square-
foot ground sign identifying the off site primary use. Such sign shall not
exceed four feet in height and may be internally illuminated.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure which is detached from a principal structure
and is located on the same zoning lot and incidental and subordinate to the
principal structure. Accessory structures are characterized by having a solid
or semi- open roof, and include, but are not limited to, detached garages,
carports, pergolas, sheds, greenhouses, and gazebos. Accessory structures may
not exceed the height of the principal structure.
ACCESSORY USE: A use which is located on the same zoning lot as a principal use
and is incidental and subordinate to the principal use.
ADHERED MASONRY VENEER: Masonry veneer secured and supported through the
adhesion of an approved bonding material applied to an approved backing.
ALLEY: A public right-of-way which affords a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
ALTERNATIVE TOBACCO ESTABLISHMENTS: An establishment, the principal use or
purpose of which is for the retail sales of electronic cigarettes, nicotine and
non-nicotine vapor related items, nicotine salts, non-cannabis fragrances, vape
machines/pens, and liquid nicotine/e-juice. In terms of primary use, the
majority of the floor area of the use and/or sales of all aforementioned items
shall constitute this use. “Alternative tobacco establishments” do not include
any use otherwise listed specifically in a zoning district as a permitted or
conditional use. This definition does not include the uses of any cannabis
business establishment. This use shall follow the off-street parking regulation
for a retail establishment.
ANCHORED MASONRY VENEER: Masonry veneer secured with approved mechanical
fasteners to an approved backing.
ANIMAL CLINIC: A use or structure intended or used primarily for the testing
and treatment of animals on an emergency or outpatient basis. Animal clinic
shall not include the boarding or training of animals and shall not provide
outdoor runs or kennels. "Animal clinic" shall not include any use that is
otherwise listed specifically in a zoning district as a permitted or
conditional use.
ANIMAL HOSPITAL: A use or structure intended or used primarily for the testing
and treatment of the disorders of animals, including the indoor boarding of
animals for such purpose, but not the training or grooming of animals. "Animal
hospital" shall not include any use that is otherwise listed specifically in a
zoning district as a permitted or conditional use.
ANTENNA: An apparatus, freestanding or attached to the exterior of a building,
together with any supporting structure, for sending or receiving
electromagnetic waves. (See section
12-8-3, "Antenna Regulations", of this title.)
ARBOR: A freestanding, doorway-type structure comprised of two sides attached
by an arched or flat top, intended for aesthetic purposes, and typically
located adjacent to gardens, landscaping, walkways, or entryways. The height of
an arbor is measured from the immediately adjacent finished grade to the
highest point of the arbor.
ARTISANAL RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS: On-site production and/or sale of small goods
by hand manufacturing, involving the use of hand tools and small-scale, light
mechanical equipment all conducted within a completely enclosed building with
no outdoor operations or storage. Typical uses include woodworking and cabinet
shops, ceramic studios, stain-glass painting, jewelry manufacturing and similar
types of arts and crafts or very light manufacturing uses that have no negative
external impacts on surrounding properties. Instructional classes may be an
allowable accessory use to the primary use of selling and making small
commodities. This land use shall follow the off-street parking requirement of
retail establishments unless otherwise stated in this title.
ASSISTED LIVING: A facility for adults in need of some protective oversight or
assistance due to functional limitation that provides a living arrangement
integrating shelter, food and other supportive services to maintain a
functional residential status. "Assisted living" shall not include any use that
is otherwise listed specifically in a zoning district as a permitted or
conditional use.
AUTO BODY REPAIR: A building, property, or activity the principal use of which
is automotive body repair or auto detailing other than those types of repairs
permitted at automobile filling stations and auto service repair
establishments. "Auto body repair" shall not include any use that is otherwise
listed specifically in a zoning district as a permitted or a conditional use.
AUTO FILLING STATION: A building, property, or structure the principal use of
which dispenses or offers for retail sale of automotive fuels or oils and
incidental convenience goods; having pumps and storage tanks thereon, and where
battery, tire and other similar services, are rendered, but only if rendered
wholly within lot lines. "Auto filling station" shall not include an auto body
repair establishment, car washes, or any use that is otherwise listed
specifically in a zoning district as a permitted or a conditional use.
AUTO SERVICE REPAIR: A building, property, or activity the principal use of
which is the repair or replacement of parts, oils, coolants, lubricants, tires,
and other similar services. "Auto service repair", shall include, but is not
limited to, muffler shops, oil change shops, car care centers, tire centers and
other uses similar in nature and impact. "Auto service repair" shall not
include an auto body repair establishment, car washes, or any use that is
otherwise listed specifically in a zoning district as permitted or a
conditional use.
AWNING: A rooflike cover, often constructed of fabric, metal, or glass,
designed and intended for protection from the weather or decoration, that is
installed on a wall or roof of a structure, extends away from the structure,
and hangs over a window, door, sidewalk, or area adjacent to the structure.
BALLOON: An inflated nonporous object filled with heated gas or a gas lighter
than air.
BASEMENT: That portion of a structure located partly or completely below the
established grade.
BED AND BREAKFAST: An owner occupied detached single-family dwelling where
short term lodging and morning meals are provided for compensation.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets and
public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, bulkhead lines or shorelines
of waterways, or corporate boundary lines of the City of Des Plaines.
BODY ART ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment licensed under the Illinois Department
of Public Health that conducts physical body adornment activities, including,
but not limited to, the following techniques: body piercing, tattooing,
cosmetic tattooing, branding and scarification. This definition does not
include practices that are considered medical procedures by the Illinois State
Medical Board, such as implants under the skin, which shall not be performed in
a body art establishment. “Body art establishment” shall not include any use
that is otherwise listed specifically in a zoning district as a permitted or
conditional use.
BREWERY: Any class of brewer or craft brewer licensed to manufacture beer under
the Illinois Liquor Control Act of 1934, 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et
seq. When a brewery is the principal use, it may include one or more of the
following uses as accessory uses: a) a tavern; b) a Class A restaurant; and c)
an establishment that sells at retail goods, products, and merchandise related
to marketing or promoting the brewery or its accessory uses.
BREWPUB: A Class A restaurant or tavern that includes a brewery as an accessory
use and that satisfies the definition of "brew pub" set forth in the Illinois
Liquor Control Act of 1934, 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq. A
brewpub may also include, as an accessory use, an establishment that sells at
retail goods, products, and merchandise related to marketing or promoting the
brewpub.
BRICK: Masonry unit containing calcium silicate, clay, shale, or concrete.
BUILDING: Any structure built for the support, shelter, or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels, or movable property of any kind, and which is
permanently or temporarily located on the same zoning lot.
BUILDING COVERAGE: The percentage of the surface area of a zoning lot that is
occupied by principal buildings and any accessory buildings and structures. All
areas of buildings or structures covered by a roof are included in building
coverage.
BUILDING, DETACHED: A building surrounded by open space on the same lot.
BUILDING ENVELOPE: The area of a lot remaining after the application of the
minimum open space or minimum setback and the minimum height requirements of
this title upon which a building or structure may be constructed.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the mean elevation of the finished
lot grade at the front of building to the top of the highest roof beams on a
flat or shed roof, the deck level of a mansard roof, and the average distance
between the eaves and the ridge level for gable, hip, and gambrel roofs.
Excluded elements are mechanical and elevator penthouses, chimneys, air
conditioners, church spires and steeples and similar appurtenances. All
excluded elements cannot exceed the maximum height of the respective or
underlying zoning district by more than twenty five feet (25').
BUILDING LINE: The line established in the subdivision by agreement or
otherwise, designating the required distance of the front line of any structure
or building from the street line of the street in front of such building or
structure, shall be known as the building line.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A nonaccessory building in which a principal use of the
lot, on which it is located, is conducted.
BULK: The term used to indicate the size and setbacks of buildings or
structures and the location of same with respect to one another, and includes
the following:
   A.   Size and height of buildings.
   B   .Location of exterior walls at all levels in relation to lot lines,
streets, or other buildings.
   C.   Gross floor area of buildings in relation to lot area (floor area
ratio).
   D   .All open spaces allocated to buildings.
   E   .Amount of lot area provided per dwelling unit.
BULLETIN BOARD: A sign used to announce meetings or programs to be held on the
premises of a church, school, auditorium, library, museum, community recreation
center, or similar noncommercial places of public assembly.
CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment that operates as either a
cannabis craft grower, cannabis cultivation center, cannabis dispensary,
cannabis infuser, cannabis processor or a combination of two or more of the
aforementioned uses.
CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER: A facility licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other
similar activities to make cannabis available for sale at an authorized
cannabis dispensary or use by a cannabis processor. The maximum allowable size
of a cannabis craft grower shall comply with the Illinois Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act.
CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER: A facility licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, dry, cure, package, transport, and perform other
similar activities to provide cannabis and cannibals-infused products to
cannabis business establishments.
CANNABIS DISPENSARY: A facility licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation that will acquire cannabis from an
authorized cannabis cultivation center, cannabis craft grower, cannabis
processor or other cannabis dispensaries for the purpose of selling or
dispensing cannabis or other related authorized products as permitted by the
Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act or the Illinois Compassionate Use of
the Medical Cannabis Program Act. This land use definition shall include
registered medical cannabis dispensing organizations that are defined under the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act.
CANNABIS INFUSER: A facility licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture
to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a product
formulation to create a cannabis-infused product.
CANNABIS PROCESSOR: A facility licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce cannabis
concentrate or incorporates cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a product
formulation to create a cannabis product.
CANOPY: A rooflike cover that is entirely horizontal and either: a) is
installed on a wall of a structure, extends away from the wall on which it is
installed, and hangs over a window, door, sidewalk, or area adjacent to the
wall; or b) is freestanding and installed over an outdoor service area, such as
at a gasoline service station. A marquee is not a canopy.
CAR WASH: A building or portion thereof where facilities for washing, cleaning
and detailing automobiles are provided that involve machine or hand operated
mechanical devices or equipment. "Car wash" shall not include any use that is
otherwise listed specifically in a zoning district as a permitted or a
conditional use.
CARPORT: An accessory structure with a permanent roof and three or fewer walls
that is generally used for storing motor vehicles, boats, equipment and other
items.
CASINO: A facility at which lawful gambling is authorized pursuant to an
owner’s license issued by the Illinois gaming board in accordance with the
Illinois Gambling Act, 230 ILCS 10/1 et seq.
CENTER, ADULT DAY SERVICE: Any place other than a family home that provides
daytime meal services, transportation, health monitoring, personal care, and
recreational/therapeutic activities for adults during any part of a day not
exceeding thirteen (13) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period.
CENTER, CHILDCARE: Any place other than a family home in which persons receive
childcare services during any part of a day not exceeding thirteen (13) hours
in any twenty four (24) hour period.
CHILD HOME CARE: A home occupation where a family home is used to receive not
more than eight (8) children for care during any part of the day not exceeding
twelve (12) hours in any twenty four (24) hour period. The maximum eight (8)
children includes the family's natural or adoptive children under the age of
eighteen (18) and those children who are in the home under full time care. (See
section
12-8-9, "Child Home Care", of this title.)
COLLEGE/UNIVERSITY: A privately owned or publicly owned institution providing
full time or part time education beyond the high school level, including any
lodging rooms or housing for students or faculty.
COMMERCIAL INDOOR RECREATION: Public or private recreation facilities, tennis
courts, ball courts, racquet courts or other courts, swimming pools, bowling
alleys, skating rinks, or similar uses that are enclosed in buildings and are
operated on a commercial or membership basis, and primarily for the use of
persons who do not reside on the same lot as the recreational use. "Commercial
indoor recreation" shall include, but not be limited to, health and fitness
clubs or any accessory use, such as snack bars, pro shops, and locker rooms
that are designed and intended primarily for the use of patrons of the
principal recreational use. "Commercial indoor recreation" shall not include
commercial theaters, commercial art galleries, community and recreation
centers, or any use that is otherwise listed specifically in a zoning district
as permitted or a conditional use.
COMMERCIAL MOBILE RADIO AND WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE FACILITY: An
unmanned facility consisting of antennas, equipment, and equipment storage
shelter used for the reception, switching, and/or transmission of wireless
telecommunications including, but not limited to, paging, enhanced specialized
mobile radio, personal communication services, cellular telephone, and similar
technologies. A commercial mobile radio service facility may either be
freestanding, roof mounted, or building mounted. (See section
12-8-5, "Commercial Mobile Radio and Wireless Telecommunications Service
Facilities", of this title.)
COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE SALES AND LEASING: An establishment, the principal use
or purpose of which is the sale or rental of multi- passenger buses and
limousines, large trucks, construction or agricultural equipment, aircraft, or
similar large vehicles and vehicular equipment. "Commercial motor vehicle sales
and leasing" may include accessory car wash, auto detailing, body and service
repair areas all of which may only be conducted within the primary building or
structure. "Commercial motor vehicle sales and leasing" shall not include any
use otherwise listed specifically in a zoning district as a permitted or
conditional use. The display of motor vehicles for sale or for lease shall be
allowed in all required yards but may not be in conflict with other provisions
of this title.
COMMERCIAL OUTDOOR RECREATION: Public or private swimming pools, tennis courts,
ball fields, and ball courts that are not enclosed in buildings and are
operated on a commercial or membership basis, and primarily for the use of
persons who do not reside on the same lot as the recreational use. "Commercial
outdoor recreation" shall include any accessory uses, such as snack bars, pro
shops, and clubhouses that are designed and intended primarily for the use of
patrons of the principal recreational use. "Commercial outdoor recreation"
shall not include skateboarding courses, water slides, mechanical rides, go-
cart or motorcycle courses, raceways, drag strips, overnight camping, or gun
firing ranges, or any use that is otherwise listed specifically in a zoning
district as a permitted or a conditional use.
COMMERCIAL PARKING GARAGE: A privately or publicly owned and used structure
used for parking or storage of automobiles, generally available to the public
and involving payment of a charge for such parking or storage.
COMMERCIAL PARKING LOT: An area reserved or used for parking or storage of
automobiles, either privately or publicly owned, and generally available to the
public and involving payment of a charge for such parking or storage.
COMMERCIAL SCHOOL: An establishment, the principal use or purpose of which is
teaching the skills needed to perform a particular professional job or trade
including, but not limited to, schools of construction or building trade,
cosmetology, cooking, motor vehicle repair, computer training facilities,
vocational schools, administrative business training facilities and similar
fields. "Commercial schools" do not include any use otherwise listed
specifically in a zoning district as a permitted or conditional use.
COMMERCIAL STORAGE FACILITY: A commercial land use consisting of the rental of
fully enclosed interior building space for the storage of personal property
(miniwarehouse). An industrial warehouse shall not be considered commercial
storage facility. "Commercial storage facility" shall not include any use that
is otherwise listed specifically in a zoning district as a permitted or a
conditional use.
COMMERCIAL THEATER: A building in which plays, choirs, movies, comedy acts and
other dramatic performances are given for payment. Accessory uses that are
allowed to take place inside of the building include: concession stands,
ancillary bar and restaurant and video arcade areas.
COMMERCIAL TRUCK PARKING LOT: An area reserved or used for parking or storage
of commercial trucks, trailers, tractors, and commercial vehicles and involving
payment for such parking or storage. A "commercial truck parking lot" does not
include an associated on site office or building. "Commercial truck parking
lot" shall not include any use that is otherwise listed specifically in a
zoning district as a permitted or conditional use.
COMMERCIALLY ZONED ASSEMBLY USES: A use that is primarily for the purpose of
the assembly of people, which can contain a combination of uses that take place
in both principal and accessory structures. Such uses include: commercial
theater, banquet halls, nightclubs, church, synagogue, temple, meeting house,
mosque, or other place of worship. For allowable accessory uses, refer to the
specific land uses defined in this chapter. Such uses shall adhere to the off
street parking requirements under "assembly uses".
COMMUNITY CENTER: A place, structure, area or other facility used for and
providing programs, information and services generally open to the public and
designed to accommodate and serve significant segments of the community.
CONGREGATE HOUSING: Rental housing which provides a living arrangement of self-
contained units that integrate shelter, food service and other services for
independent adults who do not require twenty four (24) hour oversight. Services
may include meals, laundry, transportation, housekeeping and organized
activities which create opportunities for socialization.
CONSUMER LENDER: Any establishment that provides services directly to consumers
and that satisfies any one or more of the following criteria: a) requires a
license under one or more of the following State Statutes: the Currency
Exchange Act, 205 Illinois Compiled Statutes 405/0.1 et seq.; the Sales Finance
Agency Act, 205 Illinois Compiled Statutes 660/1 et seq.; the Consumer
Installment Loan Act, 205 Illinois Compiled Statutes 670/1 et seq.; or the
Payday Loan Reform Act, 815 Illinois Compiled Statutes 122/1 et seq.; b) acts
as a facilitator subject to the Tax Refund Anticipation Loan Reform Act, 815
Illinois Compiled Statutes 177/1 et seq.; or c) performs other transactions or
services that are determined by the Zoning Administrator to be substantially
similar to those regulated by the State Statutes set forth in items a) and b)
of this definition. Factors that the Zoning Administrator shall consider to
make a determination pursuant to item c) of this definition include, without
limitation, the amount of any principal balances involved in a transaction, the
manner by which any interest payments are calculated, the number and value of
any applicable fees or other charges, the duration of any payment schedules and
the distribution of payments therein, and the nature of any collateral.
CONTRACTOR'S STORAGE YARD: Land that is used for the storage of contractor's
construction equipment, equipment parts, materials and supplies, and parking of
wheeled construction equipment. A "contractor's storage yard" does not include
an associated on site office or building. "Contractor's storage yard" shall not
include any use that is otherwise listed specifically in a zoning district as a
permitted or conditional use.
CONVENIENCE MART FUELING OR CHARGING STATION: A building, property or structure
where the direct retail sale of food items such as cereals, grains, produce,
baked goods, dairy products, canned and frozen prepared food products,
beverages, cleaning supplies, pet food and supplies, household goods, books and
magazines, and other sundry items as well as dispensed automotive energy in the
form of fuel, electricity, or a combination of both. Oils and auto accessories
may also be available to be purchased by the consumer. “Convenience mart
fueling or charging station” may also include, as a secondary principal use, a
Class B restaurant as defined herein. “Convenience mart fueling and charging
station” shall not include auto body repair establishments, auto filling
stations, auto service repair, car washes, or any use of other type that is
otherwise listed specifically in a zoning district as a permitted or
conditional use.
CONVENIENCE RETAIL: A building or portion thereof, generally of small size and
character, where the direct retail sale of food items such as meats, cereals,
grains, produce, baked goods, dairy products, canned and frozen prepared food
products, beverages, cleaning supplies, pet food and supplies, pharmaceuticals,
over the counter medicines, personal products, household goods, books and
magazines, plants, and other sundry items are available to be purchased by the
consumer. "Convenience retail" shall include, but not be limited to, a grocery
store, a food and drug store, meat or fish market, fruit and vegetable market,
retail bakery, convenience store and other uses similar in nature and impact.
"Convenience retail" shall not include a supermarket, grocery mart, or
wholesale club store or any use of other type that is otherwise listed
specifically in a zoning district as a permitted or conditional use.
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW APPROVAL: Shall consist of site plan review, zoning
certificates, conditional use permits, planned unit developments, variations,
amendments to the ordinance or map, administrative interpretations, and appeals
from administrative determinations as provided in this title.
DISTILLERY: Any class of distiller or craft distiller licensed to manufacture
spirits by distillation under the Illinois Liquor Control Act of 1934, 235
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq. When a distillery is the principal use,
it may include one or more of the following accessory uses: a) a tavern; b) a
Class A restaurant; and c) an establishment that sells at retail goods,
products, and merchandise related to marketing or promoting the distillery or
its accessory uses.
DISTRIBUTION FACILITY: A building, area, or portion thereof designed to
accommodate large scale trucking operations, including local, intrastate, or
interstate motor carriers, for the transfer, loading and unloading of goods.
"Distribution facility" may include facilities for the temporary storage of
loads prior to shipment.
DOMESTIC PET SERVICE: An establishment where the grooming of domestic animals,
the accessory sale of miscellaneous domestic pet food and other items, and the
temporary boarding of domestic animals is permitted.
DORMITORY: A building or portion thereof that contains living quarters for
students, staff, or members of an accredited college, university, boarding
school, theological school, hospital, religious order, or comparable
organization; provided that said building is owned or managed by said
organization and contains not more than one cooking and eating area.
DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITY: An accessory facility, structure or portion thereof
that is designed, intended or used for transacting business with customers
located in motor vehicles. "Drive-through facility" shall not include an
automobile filling station or any use that is otherwise listed specifically in
a zoning district as a permitted or a conditional use.
DWELLING: A residential building or portion thereof. "Dwelling" shall not
include a hotel, motel, boarding house, rooming house, dormitory, nursing home,
or institution.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A residential building containing three (3) or more
dwelling units, including what is commonly known as an apartment building or
condominium, but not including group, row or town houses.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED: A residential building containing not more
than one dwelling unit entirely surrounded by open space on the same lot.
DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE (ATTACHED SINGLE-FAMILY): A residential building containing
dwelling units, each of which has primary ground floor access to the outside
and are attached to each other by party walls without openings.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A residential building containing two (2) dwelling units
entirely surrounded by open space on the same lot.
DWELLING UNIT: A room or group of contiguous rooms that include facilities used
or intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating, and that are
arranged, designed or intended for use exclusively as living quarters.
EASEMENT: The right to use or benefit from the land of another, for a
restricted purpose, without compensating the owner.
ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING SPACE: A marked parking space in a public or private
off-street parking facility that provides for the charging of electric
vehicles. Electric vehicle charging spaces may fulfill up to five percent of an
off-street parking requirement and may be adjacent to electric vehicle supply
equipment. "Electric Vehicle Charging Space" does not include off-street
parking directly adjacent to private residential driveways or in private
residential garages, where charging technology may also be installed.
ELECTRIC VEHICLE SUPPLY EQUIPMENT: The conductors and charging port connectors,
attachment plugs, and all other fittings, devices, power outlets, or apparatus
installed specifically for the purpose of delivering electrical energy to a
vehicle parked in an electric vehicle charging space.
ERECT: To construct or allow to be constructed, but it shall not include any
activity when performed as an incident to the change of advertising message or
normal maintenance of a sign or sign structure.
FACE BRICK: A brick unit generally 75/8" x 35/8" x 21/4" in size and masonry
veneer made especially for the decorative facing of exterior elevations.
FAMILY:
   A.   Two (2) or more persons, each related to the other by blood, marriage,
or adoption, together with usual domestic servants and not more than one bona
fide guest, all living together as a single housekeeping unit and using common
kitchen facilities (that is, a related family); or
   B.   Three (3) or fewer persons, all of whom are not necessarily related to
each of the others by blood, marriage, or adoption, all living together as a
single housekeeping unit and using common kitchen facilities (that is, an
unrelated family). For purposes of this title, however, an unrelated family
shall not include persons living together in a residential care home.
FENCE: A structure used as a barrier or boundary to enclose, divide, or screen
a piece of land. The term “fence” includes fences, walls, and other structural
or artificial barriers that function as a wall or a fence. For the purposes of
this Title, the term “fence” does not include arbors, trellises, or naturally
growing shrubs, bushes, and other foliage. Fences must be made of wood, vinyl,
metal, masonry, or combination thereof. The height of a fence is measured from
the immediately adjacent finished grade to the highest point of the fence.
FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: A building, property or activity, the principal use or
purpose of which is the provision of financial services, including, but not
limited to, banks, credit unions, savings and loan institutions, and mortgage
companies. "Financial institution" shall not include consumer lenders or any
use or other type of institution that is separately listed as a permitted or
conditional use in a zoning district.
FLOOR AREA: The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of the
building, or portion thereof, devoted to such use, including accessory storage
areas located within selling or working space such as counters, racks, or
closets, and any basement floor area devoted to retailing activities, to the
production or processing of goods, or to business or professional offices.
"Floor area" for purposes of measurement for off street parking spaces shall
not include: floor area devoted primarily to storage areas, food preparation
areas, bathrooms, mechanical rooms, hallways, stairwells and elevators. Food
preparation areas shall not be exempt from food processing establishment uses.
No more than 10% of the entire combined floor area may be reduced for rooms
devoted primarily to storage areas.
FOOD PROCESSING ESTABLISHMENT: Establishments producing or processing foods and
certain related products. Includes: a) bakery products, sugar and confectionery
products (except facilities that produce goods only for on site sales with no
wider distribution); b) dairy products processing; c) fat and oil products (not
including rendering plants); d) fruit and vegetable canning, preserving, and
related processing; e) grain mill products and byproducts; f) meat, poultry,
and seafood canning, curing, and byproduct processing (not including facilities
that also slaughter animals); and g) miscellaneous food preparation from raw
products, including catering services that are independent from food stores or
restaurants.
FRONTAGE: The length of the property line of any one premises parallel to and
along each public right-of-way it borders.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building or an accessory portion of the principal
building that is intended for and used for storing the privately owned motor
vehicles, boats, and trailers of the family or families resident upon the
premises, and in which no business, service or industry connected directly or
indirectly with motor vehicles, boats and trailers is carried on, nor any other
commercial activity not permitted as a home occupation.
GOVERNMENT FACILITY: A building or structure owned and operated by a Municipal,
State, Federal, or other taxing body institution in which governmental services
are provided or conducted.
GROCERY, RETAIL: A building or portion thereof where the direct retail sale of
food items such as meats, cereals, grains, produce, baked goods, dairy
products, canned and frozen prepared food products, beverages, cleaning
supplies, pet food and supplies, pharmaceuticals, over the counter medicines,
personal products, household goods, books and magazines, plants, and other
sundry and similar items are available to be purchased by the consumer.
"Grocery retail" shall include, but not be limited to, grocery stores,
supermarkets, meat or fish markets, fruit and vegetable markets, and other uses
similar in nature and impact. "Grocery retail" shall not include any use of
other type of establishment that is otherwise listed specifically in a zoning
district as a permitted or conditional use.
HISTORICAL MARKER: A type of memorial sign limited in content to the
identification of a historical building or structure or the site of a
historical event.
HOME OCCUPATION: An accessory use of a dwelling unit that is used for a gainful
activity involving the provision, assembly, processing or sale of goods and/or
services that is incidental and secondary to the use of a dwelling unit, but
excluding the provision of shelter or lodging. (See section
12-8-8, "Home Occupations", of this title.)
HOSPITAL: An institution licensed by State law providing health services and
medical or surgical care to patients and injured persons.
HOTEL: A building in which lodging is offered with or without meals principally
to transient guests and that provides a common entrance, lobby, halls and
stairways.
INSTITUTIONALLY ZONED ASSEMBLY USES: A use that is primarily for the purpose of
the assembly of people, which can contain a combination of uses that take place
in both principal and accessory structures. Such uses include: commercial
theaters, banquet halls, event spaces, churches, synagogues, temples, meeting
houses, mosque, or other place of worship. Institutional Zoned Assembly Uses do
not include nightclubs. Such uses must adhere to the off street parking
requirements under "assembly uses".
LEASING/RENTAL AGENTS, SMALL EQUIPMENT: An establishment, the principal use or
purpose of which is the rental of equipment which includes, without limitation,
the following general items: (i) personal hand and power tools; (ii) small-
scale air compressors; (iii) trailers with 1,900-pound capacity or less; (iv)
lawn and garden equipment; (v) residential generators; (vi) floor and carpet
cleaners; (vii) heaters and fans; (viii) ladders; (ix) painting equipment; (x)
wallpaper equipment; and (xi) party/event equipment. “Leasing/rental agents,
small equipment” does not include any use otherwise listed specifically in a
zoning district as a permitted or conditional use. All small rental equipment
must be stored indoors at all times either in a showroom or storage area in
compliance with the other provisions of this title. This use shall follow the
off-street parking regulations for motor vehicle sales and vehicle leasing/
rental agent establishments to accommodate employee, guest, and related vehicle
parking.
LEASING/RENTAL AGENTS, LARGE EQUIPMENT: An establishment, the principal use or
purpose of which is the rental of large commercial equipment including, without
limitation, the following example items: (i) aerial equipment such as cranes,
boom lifts, scissor lifts, and material lifts; (ii) air equipment such as
large-scale portable or stationary air compressors; (iii) compaction equipment
such as large-scale soil or pavement roller machinery; (iv) earth-moving
equipment such as excavators, loaders, skid steers, bulldozers, backhoes, and
graders; (v) material handling equipment such as forklifts and telehandlers;
(vi) roadwork equipment such as arrow or message board panels and road paving/
maintenance machinery; (vii) trenching equipment such as trenchers and trench
boxes; (viii) miscellaneous equipment such as utility task vehicles, tractors,
trailers in excess of 1,900-pound capacity, commercial generators, and portable
welding machines. "Leasing/rental agents, large equipment" does not include any
use otherwise specifically listed in a zoning district as a permitted or
conditional use. The display of large equipment for lease is only allowed
indoors or in the rear yard and must comply with and may not conflict with the
other provisions of this title. The parking requirements for this use to
accommodate employee, guest, and related vehicle parking are the same as the
off-street parking regulations for motor vehicle sales and vehicle leasing/
rental agent establishments.
LEASING/RENTAL AGENTS, MOVING VEHICLE: An establishment the principal use or
purpose of which, or the secondary principal use or purpose of which, is the
leasing or rental of moving vehicles. “Leasing/rental agents, moving vehicle”
shall not include any use otherwise listed specifically in a zoning district as
a permitted or conditional use. The display of moving vehicles for lease shall
be allowed in all required yards but may not be in conflict with other
provisions of this title. This use shall follow the off-street parking
regulation for automotive sales lots to accommodate employee, guest, and
related vehicle parking.
LEASING/RENTAL AGENTS, VEHICLE (NON-MOVING): An establishment the principal use
or purpose of which is for the lease or rental of motorized vehicles,
including, but not limited to, automobiles, personal trucks, recreational
vehicles, snowmobiles, boats, and motorcycles. “Leasing/rental agents, vehicle
(non-moving)” shall include accessory car wash and auto detailing, all of which
must take place within the primary building or structure. “Leasing/rental
agents, vehicle (non-moving)” shall not include any use otherwise listed
specifically in a zoning district as a permitted or conditional use. The
display of motor vehicles for lease shall be allowed in all required yards but
may not be in conflict with other provisions of this title. This use shall
follow the off-street parking regulation for automotive sales lots to
accommodate employee, guest, and related vehicle parking.
LINEAR FRONTAGE: The front yard and corner side yard abutting a public right-
of-way from one side lot line to another.
LIVERY SERVICE: A central facility where any privately-owned transportation
vehicle is intended to be used for the transportation of persons. This use
includes the activities of distribution, dispatch, storage, loading of fleet
vehicles and ancillary commercial offices. This definition includes uses such
as private ambulance services; private bus services; limousine services; and
taxi services. This definition does not include the uses of commercial truck
parking lot; contractor's storage yard and salvage yards. An inherent
characteristic of this use is the parking of operable vehicles, which are owned
and advertised under the same business entity, which is considered a primary
facet of the use; as a primary use, this area is not to be construed as outside
storage. This use shall follow the off- street parking regulation for offices
to accommodate employee, guest and livery service related vehicle parking.
LOGO: A business trademark or symbol.
LOT: A zoning lot, except as the context shall indicate a lot of record.
LOT AREA: The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side and rear
lot lines.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the intersection of two (2) streets, the
interior angle of such intersection not exceeding one hundred thirty five
degrees (135°).
LOT DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the rear
lot line of a lot measured within the lot boundaries.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot having a pair of opposite lot lines along two (2)
more or less parallel public or private streets, and which is not a corner lot.
On a "through lot" both street lines shall be deemed front lot lines.
LOT LINE, FRONT: That boundary of a lot which is along an existing or dedicated
public street, or where no public street exists, is along a private street or
public way; provided, however, when a property contains two (2) property lines
that abut a dedicated public street, a private street or public way and the
length of the two (2) property lines are within ten percent (10%) difference of
each other, the Director of Community and Economic Development or his/her
designee shall determine which property line is the front lot line. The front
lot line determination for corner lots shall take the location of abutting
buildings into consideration when assigning such regulation.
LOT LINE, REAR: That boundary of a lot which is most distant from, and is, or
is most nearly, parallel to, the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or a rear
lot line.
LOT OF RECORD: An area of land designated as a lot on a plat of subdivision
recorded or registered, pursuant to statute, with the Recorder of Deeds, or an
area of land divided and recorded under a metes and bounds description with the
Recorder of Deeds.
LOT WIDTH: The mean horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot
measured within the lot boundaries.
LOT, ZONING: A single tract of land located within a single block, which is
developed or built upon as a unit, under single ownership or control.
Therefore, a "zoning lot or lots" may or may not coincide with a lot of record.
MANUFACTURING, HEAVY: The assembly, fabrication or processing of goods and
materials using processes that ordinarily have greater than minimal impacts on
the environment, or that ordinarily have significant impacts on the use and
enjoyment of adjacent property in terms of noise, smoke, fumes, visual impact,
odors, glare, or health and safety hazards, or that otherwise do not constitute
"light manufacturing". Heavy manufacturing generally includes processing and
fabrication of large or bulky products made from extracted or raw materials or
products involving flammable or explosive materials and processes that require
extensive floor areas or land area for the fabrication and/or incidental
storage of the products. "Heavy manufacturing" shall not include any use that
is otherwise listed specifically in a zoning district as a permitted or
conditional use.
MANUFACTURING, LIGHT: The assembly, fabrication or processing of goods and
materials using processes that do not create noise, smoke, fumes, odors, glare
or health or safety hazards outside of the building or lot where such assembly,
fabrication, or processing takes place, where such processes are housed
entirely within a building. Light manufacturing generally includes processing
and fabrication of finished products predominantly from previously prepared
materials and includes processes that do not require extensive floor areas or
land areas. "Light manufacturing" shall not include any use that is otherwise
listed specifically in a zoning district as a permitted or conditional use.
MANUFACTURING SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT: A building, property, or activity of which
the principal use or purpose is the provision of industrial oriented services
directly to manufacturing establishments. This term shall include, but will not
be limited to, tool shops, machine repair and service shops, blade sharpening
shops and similar establishments. "Manufacturing service establishments" shall
not include any use or other type of establishment that is otherwise listed
specifically in a zoning district as a permitted or conditional use.
MARQUEE: Any fixed hood (other than a canopy or awning) which is supported
solely by the building to which it is attached consisting of metal or other
incombustible material, and which includes a sign or advertising announcement.
(Marquees are prohibited.)
MASONRY: Natural or manufactured building units or materials of clay, shale,
concrete, glass, gypsum, stone or other approved units bonded together with or
without mortar, grout or other accepted methods of joining.
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT: As defined in
title 4, chapter 13 of the City Code.
MEDIA BROADCAST STATIONS: A building or portion thereof used for the production
and broadcast of media related programming. This term shall include, but will
not be limited to, radio and television broadcasting stations and other uses
similar in nature and impact.
MEDIA PRINT ESTABLISHMENTS: A building or portion thereof used for the
production and distribution of newspapers, periodicals, magazines, journals, or
other print media forms. "Media print establishments" shall not include any use
that is otherwise listed specifically in a zoning district as a permitted or
conditional use.
MEMBERSHIP ORGANIZATION: Lands, buildings, or portions of a premises owned or
operated by an organization of professional, business, trade, civic, social,
fraternal, political, or religious nature operating on a membership basis and
engaged in promoting the interest of their members. "Membership organizations"
shall not include any use that is otherwise listed specifically in a zoning
district as a permitted or conditional use.
MEMORIAL PLAQUE: A plaque designating names of buildings and/or date of
erection and other items such as architect, contractor, or others involved in
the building's creation, cut into or attached to a building surface and
measuring no more than eight (8) square feet in area.
MOBILE HOME: Any vehicle or similar portable structure used or so constructed
as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon the public streets or highways
and designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling for one or more
persons.
MOBILE HOME PARK: An area of land upon which two (2) or more occupied mobile
homes are harbored for charge and including any building, structure, tent,
vehicle, or enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the park. (See
subsection
12-7-5B, "Mobile Home Park District", of this title.)
MOBILE HOME PARKING SLIP: An area within a mobile home park designed for the
use or occupancy of one mobile home.
MOTEL: An establishment consisting of a group of attached or detached living or
sleeping accommodations for transient guests with bathrooms and closet space,
located on a single zoning lot and where access to the sleeping accommodations
is directly from the outside. A "motel" furnishes customary hotel services such
as maid service and laundering of linen, telephone and secretarial or desk
service, and the use and upkeep of furniture. "Motel" shall not include any use
that is otherwise listed specifically in a zoning district as a permitted or
conditional use.
MOTOR VEHICLE SALES: An establishment, the principal use or purpose of which is
the sale of motorized vehicles, including, but not limited to, the sale of
automobiles, personal trucks, recreation vehicles, snowmobiles, boats, and
motorcycles. "Motor vehicle sales" shall include accessory car wash, auto
detailing, body and service repair areas all of which must take place within
the primary building or structure. "Motor vehicle sales" shall not include
"commercial motor vehicle sales" or any use otherwise listed specifically in a
zoning district as a permitted or conditional use. The display of motor
vehicles for sale shall be allowed in all required yards but may not be in
conflict with other provisions of this title.
NIGHTCLUB: An establishment characterized by any or all of the following
characteristics: primarily operated in the night and early morning hours;
having a capacity of one hundred (100) or more people; which may or may not
serve food to patrons; has a disc jockey and/or live entertainment; and has an
area(s), permanent or temporary, set aside as a dance floor for the purpose of
dancing by the patrons of the establishment.
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE: A structure lawfully established prior to effective
date hereof which renders the structure nonconforming, which does not conform
to the requirements of these regulations for the zoning district in which it is
located.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use lawfully established prior to and being conducted on
the effective date hereof, or amendment thereto which renders the use
nonconforming, which does not conform to the requirements of these regulations
for the zoning district in which it is located.
NONCONFORMITY: A building, use, structure, lot, or sign which does not meet the
minimum requirements of this title.
OFFICE: A use or structure where business or professional activities are
conducted and/or business or professional services are made available to the
public, including, but not limited to, tax preparation, accounting,
architecture, legal services, medical clinics and laboratories, dental
laboratories, psychological counseling, real estate and securities brokering,
and professional consulting services, but not including drive- through service
windows, the cutting and styling of hair, or recreational facilities or
amusements. "Office" shall not include any use that is otherwise specifically
in a zoning district as a permitted or conditional use.
OFFICE BUILDING, MULTI-TENANT: A permanent building (i) that contains at least
three tenants and (ii) at least 67% of which is used by office use businesses.
Ancillary uses allowed within an office building include: brewpub, commercial
indoor recreation uses, class A and B restaurants and specialty food stores and
other uses listed as permitted within the Commercial District Use Matrix in
subsection 7.3.k of this title. This land use shall follow the off street
parking requirement of office unless otherwise stated in this title.
ORDINANCE: This ordinance and any and all amendments thereto as and when such
amendments become effective. Unless the context specifically requires
otherwise, all references to this ordinance shall be deemed to refer to any
certificate, permit, approval, resolution or ordinance granted or adopted
pursuant to this ordinance.
OUTDOOR BULK MATERIAL FACILITY: An establishment used or occupied for the
primary purposes of outdoor construction material storage, acceptance and
transfer of landscape debris and stone or concrete crushing operations. This
definition does not include the uses of warehouse, trade contractors,
commercial storage, contractor's storage yard and commercial truck parking lot.
"Outdoor bulk material facility" does not include any use otherwise listed
specifically in a zoning district as a permitted or conditional use.
PARK: A tract of land dedicated to, set aside, and maintained for recreational
use by the general public and may include, without limitation, active
recreation areas such as field game areas, court game areas, crafts, playground
apparatus, passive recreation areas, such as turf, trees, and picnicking areas,
and/or other facilities, such as swimming pools and recreation centers.
Concession sales, indoor and outdoor art, craft, and plant shows, exhibits, and
sales, and temporary or seasonal tree sales are considered accessory uses for
parks of over five acres in size.
PARKING PAD: An off street parking area adjacent to a driveway which provides
parking for a single motor vehicle.
PATIO: A dust-free, impervious hard surface constructed at finished grade,
separate from an off-street parking area, driveway or other hard surface, that
is designed and intended for outdoor recreational purposes for people and not
for the parking or storage of vehicles.
PERFORMANCE STANDARD: A criterion established to control noise, odor, smoke,
toxic or noxious matter, vibration, fire and explosive hazards, and glare or
heat generated by or inherent in uses of land or buildings. (See chapter 12,
"Environmental Performance Standards", of this title.)
PLACES OF WORSHIP: A church, synagogue, temple, meeting house, mosque, or other
place of religious worship, including any accessory use of the structure, such
as a school, childcare center or dwelling.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: A development occurring on a parcel under single
ownership or unified control which is developed as a unit and includes two (2)
or more principal buildings or uses, and is processed under the planned
development procedure of this title. (See section
12-3-5, "Planned Unit Developments", of this title.)
PREMISES: A contiguous parcel of land with its appurtenances and buildings that
functions as a unit. For the purpose of this title, an out parcel along the
perimeter of a shopping center or similar multi-tenant use, that contains a
freestanding building and a parking area separate from the shopping center as
indicated on an approved site plan shall be considered a premises separate from
the premises of the shopping center.
PUBLIC HEARING: A meeting conducted pursuant to the provisions of the Illinois
Open Meetings Act at which members of the general public must be permitted to
give testimony, evidence or opinions relevant to the subject matter.
PUBLIC MEETING: A meeting conducted pursuant to the provisions of the Illinois
Open Meetings Act at which members of the general public, as opposed to the
applicant for relief and members of the committee, board or commission or
officer, have no right (but may be given the opportunity) to offer testimony,
evidence or opinions.
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION CENTER: A building or portion thereof used as a terminus
for rail or bus passenger service. This term shall include, but not be limited
to, train and bus stations and other uses similar in nature and impact. "Public
transportation center" shall not include maintenance barns, rail yards, or any
use that is otherwise listed specifically in a zoning district as a permitted
or conditional use.
PUBLIC UTILITIES: A building or portion thereof used for providing, monitoring,
and housing utilities for public consumption or use. This term shall include,
but not be limited to, operations providing water, sewer, gas, public works
facilities, and other uses similar in nature and impact. "Public utilities"
shall not include any use that is otherwise listed specifically in a zoning
district as a permitted or conditional use.
PUBLIC WAY: Any sidewalk, street, alley, highway, or other public thoroughfare.
RAILROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY: A strip of land with tracks and auxiliary facilities for
track operation, but not including freight depots or stations, loading
platforms, train sheds, warehouses, car or locomotive shops or car yards.
REAR YARD COVERAGE: The amount of impervious surface as a percentage of the
total rear yard area. To determine rear yard coverage for a detached single-
family residential property, the area of the rear yard shall be the horizontal
distance of the lot taken from the rear-most elevation of the principal
building multiplied by the distance from the rear-most elevation of the
principal structure to the rear lot line. For irregularly shaped lots, the area
of the rear yard shall start from the rear-most elevation of the principal
building and cover all areas of the property from this elevation to the rear
lot line(s) of the subject property. Any improvement that contains a dust-free
hard surface and any building or structure with a roof shall count towards the
rear yard coverage; provided, however, that improvements constructed of
permeable elements, the design and installation of which have been approved by
the Community and Economic Development Director, will not count toward rear
yard coverage.
RECREATION CENTER: A place, structure, area or other facility used for and
providing recreation programs and facilities generally open to the public and
designed to accommodate and serve significant segments of the community.
"Recreation center" shall not include any use that is otherwise listed
specifically in a zoning district as a permitted or conditional use.
RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT: A facility, structure, or device, including play
houses, swing sets, trampolines, sand boxes, game courts, or other similar
features, intended for recreational and athletic use.
RECYCLING CENTER: A structure designed or intended for the depositing or
collection of clean, source separated and recyclable papers, glass, metals or
plastics, and having mechanical facilities for the processing of such
materials. "Recycling center" shall not include any use that is otherwise
listed specifically in a zoning district as a permitted or conditional use.
RESEARCH, TESTING AND DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIES: A building, property, or
structure in which are located facilities for scientific research,
investigation, testing, or experimentation, but not facilities for the
manufacture or sale of products, except as incidental to the main purpose of
the building, property or structure. "Research and development industries"
shall not include any use that is otherwise listed specifically in a zoning
district as a permitted or conditional use.
RESIDENTIAL CARE HOME: A dwelling unit shared by unrelated persons, exclusive
of staff, who require assistance and/or supervision and who reside together in
a family type environment as a single housekeeping unit. Residential care home
shall not include a home for persons who are currently addicted to alcohol or
narcotic drugs or are criminal offenders serving on work release or
probationary programs. (See section
12-8-10, "Residential Care Homes", of this title.)
RESIDENTIAL CARE HOME, LARGE: A residential care home for six (6) to ten (10)
persons, exclusive of staff, who require assistance and/or supervision and who
reside together in a family type environment as a single housekeeping unit.
RESIDENTIAL CARE HOME, SMALL: A residential care home for five (5) or fewer
persons, exclusive of staff, who require assistance and/or supervision and who
reside together in a family type environment as a single housekeeping unit.
RESIDENTIAL DRIVEWAY: An approved hard surface that allows for a vehicular
connection from an off street parking space, including a garage, carport,
parking pad, or approved parking area, to a street or alley.
RESIDENTIAL WALKWAY: A dust-free, impervious hard surface constructed at
finished grade that connects with and diverges from other dust-free hard
surfaces, structures, and other yard features to provide paved pedestrian
access on a residential property.
RESIDENTIALLY ZONED ASSEMBLY USES: A use that is primarily for the purpose of
the assembly of people for a non-commercial purpose, which can contain a
combination of uses that take place in both principal and accessory structures.
Such uses include: community center, membership organizations, church,
synagogue, temple, meeting house, mosque, or other place of worship. For
allowable accessory uses, refer to the specific land uses defined in this
chapter. Such uses shall adhere to the off street parking requirements under
"assembly uses".
RESTAURANT: An establishment whose principal business is the sale of edible,
prepared foodstuffs and/or beverages for consumption on or off the premises.
Restaurants are further defined by class as follows:
   A.   Class A restaurants are those restaurants whose design or principal
method of operation includes any two (2) of the following characteristics:
      1.   Customers are provided with an individual menu, are served their
food or beverages by waitstaff, in nondisposable containers, at the same table
at which such items are consumed.
      2.   Cafeteria type operations where foods or beverages are generally
consumed within the restaurant building.
      3.   Carryout service is not the predominant type of service available.
   B.   Class B restaurants are those restaurants not falling within the
classification of Class A and having characteristics of offering food service
over a counter or through a drive-through facility, having a limited menu of
items already prepared and held for service, or prepared, fried, or grilled
quickly, or heated in a microwave oven.
      1.   Lunchrooms, cafeterias, and coffee shops providing service intended
for employees, students, and guests within an educational, office, medical, or
industrial building, are not, only for purposes of this definition, considered
to be restaurants, but rather uses incidental to the permitted uses.
RETAIL GOODS ESTABLISHMENT: A building, property, or activity, the principal
use or purpose of which is, the sale of goods, products, or merchandise
directly to the consumer. "Retail goods establishment" shall include, but not
be limited to, department stores, hardware stores, apparel stores, art
galleries, and other uses similar in nature and impact. "Retail goods
establishment" shall not include any use or other type of establishment that is
otherwise listed specifically in a zoning district as a permitted or
conditional use.
RETAIL SERVICES ESTABLISHMENT: A building, property, or activity, the principal
use or purpose of which is the provision of personal services directly to the
consumer. The term "retail services establishment" shall include, but not be
limited to, barbershops, beauty parlors, laundry and dry cleaning
establishments (plant off premises), tailoring shops, shoe repair shops and the
like. "Retail services establishment" shall not include any use or other type
of establishment that is otherwise listed specifically in a zoning district as
a permitted or conditional use.
SALVAGE YARD: An open area where discarded, used, or secondhand materials
including motorized vehicles and buses are bought, sold, exchanged, stored,
baled, packed, disassembled, or handled including, but not limited to, scrap
iron, other metals, paper, rags, rubber tires, auto parts, and glass. All
related activities, including accessory activities shall be conducted on the
zoning lot. Salvage yard includes wrecking yards, but does not include
landfills, waste transfer stations, motor vehicle sales, auto service repair,
auto filling station establishments and vehicle storage establishments, or uses
carried on entirely within enclosed buildings. In addition, "salvage yard"
shall not include any use that is otherwise listed specifically in a zoning
district as a permitted or conditional use.
SETBACK: A line establishing the minimum distance required between a building
or structure and the front, rear, or side lot lines, as measured from the
front, rear, or side lot line.
SHOOTING RANGE, INDOOR: The use of a structure for archery and/or the
discharging of firearms for the purposes of target practice, military/law
enforcement training, or temporary competitions. An "indoor shooting range" may
include accessory firearm sales, subject to the Des Plaines city code
regulations relating to firearms dealers.
SHOPPING CENTER: A development in which at least three (3) commercial units are
constructed with individual entrances and share improvements such as common
walls and a common off-street parking lot. A shopping center typically contains
a unified architectural site design and may be located adjacent to one or more
outlots for freestanding businesses on separate lots. This land use shall
follow the off street parking requirement for shopping center; provided
however, commercially zoned assembly uses located within a shopping center
shall separately follow the off street parking requirements identified in
section
9-7 of this title.
SIGN: Any object, device, or structure, or part thereof, which is used to
advertise, identify, display, direct, or attract attention to an object,
person, institution, organization, business, product, service, event or
location by any means, including words, letters, figures, designs, symbols,
fixtures, colors, illumination, or projected images. Signs do not include the
flag or emblem of any nation, state, city, or organization; works of art which
in no way identify a product; scoreboards located on athletic fields.
SIGN, AWNING: A sign that is mounted or painted on or attached to an awning. No
such sign shall project vertically above or horizontally beyond the physical
dimensions of such awning.
SIGN, CANOPY: A sign that is painted on, printed on or attached to a canopy.
SIGN, CONSTRUCTION RELATED AND AVAILABLE SPACE, TEMPORARY: A temporary sign or
banner used to identify the name of a specific construction project occurring
on the subject lot or to advertise the lease or sale of available commercial or
residential space at the property.
SIGN, DIRECTIONAL: An on premises sign designed to guide vehicular and/or
pedestrian traffic by using such words as "Entrance", "Exit", "Parking", "One-
Way", or similar directional instruction, but not including any advertising
message.
SIGN, DIRECTORY: A secondary sign on which the names and locations of occupants
or the use of a building or property are identified.
SIGN, DRIVE-THROUGH MENU BOARD: A freestanding or wall sign displaying items or
services available at a drive-through facility and located on the same zoning
lot of the subject business.
SIGN, ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARD:
   A.   Electronic Message Board: A sign whose informational content can be
changed or altered by manual or electric, electromechanical or electronic
means.
   B.   Animated Sign: A sign, or display, manifesting either kinetic or
illusionary motion occasioned by natural, manual, mechanical, electrical or
other means. This sign type is prohibited.
   C.   Flashing Sign: An illuminated sign exhibiting a preprogrammed
repetitious cyclical interruption of illumination from one or more sources in
which the duration of the period of illumination (on phase) is either the same
as, or less than, the duration of the period of darkness (off phase), and which
the intensity of illumination varies from zero (off) to one hundred percent
(100%) (on during the programmed cycle). This sign type is prohibited..
   D.   Video Display Sign: A sign, or display that utilizes full motion video
technology or other electronic means to create the illusion of movement.
SIGN FACE: That part of the sign which is or can be used to identify, to
advertise, to communicate information, or for visual representation which
attracts the attention of the public for any purpose. The term sign face
includes any background or surrounding material, panel, trim or ornamentation,
color, and direct or self-illumination that differentiates the sign from the
building, structure, backdrop surface or object upon or against which it is
placed. The term sign face does not include any portion of the support
structure for the sign, provided that no message, symbol, or any of the
previously described elements of a sign face is placed on or designated as part
of the support structure.
SIGN, GOVERNMENT: Any temporary or permanent sign erected and maintained for
any official governmental purpose.
SIGN GRAPHICS: Any lettering, numerals, figures, designs, symbols or other
drawings or images used to create a sign.
SIGN HEIGHT: The distance from the mean elevation of the adjacent finished
grade to the highest point of a sign as measured from the bottom of finished
grade at the base of the sign.
SIGN, IDENTIFICATION: A sign giving the name, trademark or other readily
recognized symbol or address, or any combination thereof, of a building,
business, development or establishment on the premises where it is located.
SIGN, MARQUEE: A permanent sign structure that projects from the primary
building elevation of a commercial theatre over the public sidewalk. The three
(3) projecting faces of this structure are each allowed to contain signage.
SIGN, MENU BOARD WALL: A sign box that displays a menu for a class A
restaurant, class B restaurant, tavern, brewpub and brewery and hangs on the
exterior wall of the subject business. The menu board wall sign area shall not
be counted towards the maximum allowable signage.
SIGN, MONUMENT: Any sign, other than a pole sign placed upon or supported by
the ground independently of any other structure. The width of the base of a
monument sign shall be at least 75% of the width of the sign face to which it
is attached.
SIGN, NONCONFORMING: Any sign which was lawfully erected in compliance with
applicable regulations of the city of Des Plaines and maintained prior to the
effective date hereof, and which fails to conform to all applicable standards
and restrictions of this title. (See section
12-11-10 of this title.)
SIGN, POLE: A sign erected and maintained on a freestanding mast or pole and
not attached to any building, but not including monument signs. The pole or
mast supporting such sign shall not exceed two feet in width per pole or mast
unless otherwise directed by a licensed structural engineer.
SIGN, POLITICAL: A sign that advertises a candidate or issue to be voted upon
on a definite election day.
SIGN, PORTABLE: Any sign designed to be transported or movable, including, but
not limited to:
   A.   Signs with wheels or with wheels removed;
   B.   Signs with chassis or support constructed without wheels;
   C.   Signs designed to be transported by trailer, wheels or boat.
   D.    Signs painted, mounted or affixed on a motor vehicle or boat or
trailer for advertising purposes, parked on or off public right of way or
shore, and visible from the public right of way or shore, except signs
identifying the related business when the motor vehicle or boat or trailer is
being used in the normal day to day operations of that business. (Portable
signs are prohibited, except as specifically permitted in sections
12-11-5 and
12-11-6 of this title.)
SIGN, PORTABLE A-FRAME: A portable sign constructed of an A or T frame and is
intended to advertise a specific business or businesses in a pedestrian
environment.
SIGN, PUBLIC SERVICE: A sign or device displaying only the time, temperature,
stock market quotations or civic messages.
SIGN, ROOF: A sign that is mounted or painted on the roof of a building, or
that is wholly dependent upon a building for support and that projects above
the roof. (Roof signs are prohibited, except as permitted by subsection
12-11-2B of this title.)
SIGN STRUCTURE OR SUPPORT: Any structure that supports or is capable of
supporting a sign, including decorative cover.
SIGN, TEMPORARY: A sign, banner, pennant, valance or advertising display
constructed of cloth, fabric or other lightweight temporary material with or
without a structural frame intended for a limited period of display.
SIGN, VEHICULAR: Signs on parked vehicles or boats or trailers visible from the
public right-of-way where the primary purpose of the vehicle or boat or trailer
is to advertise a product or to direct people to a business or activity located
on the same or nearby property. For the purpose of this title vehicular signs
shall not include business logos, identification or advertising on vehicles
primarily used for other business purposes. (Vehicular signs are prohibited.)
SIGN, WALL: A flat sign or solid face construction which is placed against a
building or other structure and attached to the exterior front, rear or side
wall of any building or other structure.
SIGN, WINDOW: A sign that is applied or attached to or suspended from the
exterior or interior of a window or located within the interior of a structure
so that its message can be read from the exterior of the structure.
SPECIALTY FOOD STORE: A building or portion thereof where the direct retail
sale of prepared food items, either for immediate consumption on premises or to
carry out, are available. "Specialty food" items include ice cream and frozen
yogurt stores, bakery and bagel shops, coffee and tea shops, confectionery and
candy shops, and other stores selling similar items. "Specialty food store"
shall not include any use that is otherwise listed specifically in a zoning
district as a permitted or conditional use.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor next above, or if there is no floor above, the space
between the floor and the ceiling next above. A basement shall be counted as a
story for the purposes of this zoning ordinance when more than one-half (1/2)
of such basement height is above the established curb level or above the
finished lot grade level at the front of the building where curb level has not
been established.
STREET: A public right-of-way which affords a primary means of access to
abutting property.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires permanent
or temporary location on the ground or attachment to something having a
permanent or temporary location on the ground.
STUDIOS, ARTIST, DANCE AND MUSIC: Uses that focus on providing education,
individual or group instruction or training in music, dance, drama, fine arts,
or similar activities. Also includes the working place of painters, sculptors,
photographers, or similar artists.
TAVERN: An establishment serving alcoholic beverages in which the principal
business is the sale of such beverages at retail for consumption on the
premises and where food and snacks may be made available for consumption on the
premises.
TEMPORARY CLASSROOM STRUCTURE: A temporary structure that is (i) detached from
a principal structure, (ii) located on the same zoning lot as, and is
incidental and subordinate to, a public or private elementary, middle, or high
school, and (iii) used solely as an educational classroom facility. Temporary
classroom structures must comply with the Temporary Uses section of this title.
TRADE CONTRACTOR: A building or portion thereof where building and construction
trade services are provided to the public. "Trade contractor" shall include,
but will not be limited to, contractor offices, including landscaper's
showrooms, construction supplies and storage including plumbing, heating, air
conditioning, and building equipment, materials, sales, and other uses similar
in nature and impact. "Trade contractor" shall not include any use that is
otherwise listed specifically in a zoning district as a permitted or
conditional use.
TRANSITIONAL TREATMENT FACILITIES: A facility licensed by the State of Illinois
that provides supervision, counseling and therapy through a temporary living
arrangement for individuals recovering from addiction to alcohol or narcotic
drugs in order to facilitate their transition to independent living. Residents
of this facility have been previously screened in another treatment setting and
are determined to be sober/drug free but require twenty four (24) hour staff
supervision and a peer support structure in order to strengthen their recovery/
sobriety. "Transitional treatment facility" shall not include any facility for
persons awaiting adjudication by any court of competent jurisdiction or any
facility for persons on parole from correctional institutions.
TRELLIS: A freestanding structure with latticework intended primarily to
support vines or climbing plants. The height of a trellis is measured from the
immediately adjacent finished grade to the highest point of the trellis.
UNIFIED CONTROL: The combination of two (2) or more tracts of land wherein each
owner has agreed that his tract of land shall be developed as part of a planned
unit development and shall be subject to the control of this title applicable
to the planned development.
USE: The purpose or activity for which the land, or building thereon, is
designed, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained, and
shall include any manner of performance of such activity with respect to the
performance standards of this zoning ordinance.
USE, PRINCIPAL: The primary use of land or buildings as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use.
USE, SECONDARY PRINCIPAL: A use, subordinate to the primary use, that is
established on a lot or structure subsequent to or at the same time as the
primary use but which is not accessory to the primary use.
USE, TEMPORARY: A use that is established for a fixed period of time with the
intent to discontinue such use upon the expiration of such time. (See section
12-8-11, "Temporary Uses", of this title.)
VEHICLE, COMMERCIAL: Any vehicle operated for the transportation of persons or
property in the furtherance of any commercial enterprise, for-hire or not-for-
hire. This definition shall not include a commuter van, a vehicle currently
being used for ride-sharing, or a recreation vehicle that is not being used
commercially.
VEHICLE, MOVING: A motorized vehicle or similar means of transportation used
primarily for the purpose of non-commercial moving of personal property from
one location to another. Moving vehicles are typically leased and used on a
short-term basis and may include but are not limited to box trucks, pick-up
trucks, cargo vans, and small trailers.
VEHICLE, RECREATIONAL: A motorized or towable vehicle designed for temporary
living for recreational purposes. This may include a motorhome, camper van/
truck/bus, camper trailer, travel trailer, destination trailer, and fifth-
wheel trailer, but does not include boats/personal watercraft on trailers,
utility trailers. As differentiated from a mobile home, a recreational vehicle
is not intended for permanent occupancy or as a permanent residence.
VEHICLE TOWING ESTABLISHMENTS: A building, property, or activity, the principal
use of which is the retrieving or securing of distressed, disabled, abandoned,
or illegally parked motorized vehicles. "Vehicle towing establishments" shall
not include any use that is otherwise listed specifically in a zoning district
as a permitted or conditional use.
WAREHOUSE: A building or portion thereof used for the storage of goods and/or
materials. This term shall include, but not be limited to, commercial storage
facilities, and other uses similar in nature and impact.
WHOLESALE GOODS ESTABLISHMENT: A building, property, or activity, the use or
purpose of which is the sale of goods, products, or merchandise, in bulk
quantities to retailers or persons who will in turn sell the goods, products or
merchandise directly to the consumer. "Wholesale goods establishment" shall not
include any use or other type of establishment that is otherwise listed
specifically on a zoning district as a permitted or conditional use.
YARD: An open space on a zoning lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed from
its lowest level to the sky. A "yard" extends along a lot line and at right
angles to such lot line to a depth or width specified in the yard regulations
for the zoning district in which such zoning lot is located.
YARD, CORNER SIDE: A yard which adjoins a public right-of-way and is not the
designated front yard. A corner side yard setback assignment shall extend along
the length of such assigned lot line from the front yard setback back to the
rear lot line. Note, corner side yards are strictly for corner lots that are
located within the R-1, R-2, R- 3 and R-4 zoning districts.
YARD FEATURE: Objects and features, including gazing balls, bird baths,
statues, wishing wells, ornamental lights, and other similar features, intended
to be used for aesthetic purposes.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending along the full length of the front lot line
between the assigned side/corner side lot lines. On corner lots, the front lot
line shall be the shorter of the two (2) lot lines separating the property from
the streets.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending along the full length of the rear lot line between
the side lot lines and directly opposite from the front yard.
YARD, SIDE: A yard extending along a side lot line from the front yard to the
rear yard. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-1998; amd. Ord. Z-22-01, 12-3-2001; Ord. Z-33-03,
11-17-2003; Ord. Z-2-05, 2-7-2005; Ord. Z-17-05, 7-18-2005; Ord. Z-21-05, 8-15-
2005; Ord. Z-35-06, 9-18-2006; Ord. Z-11-07, 3-19-2007; Ord. Z-1-10, 3-15-2010;
Ord. Z-12-11, 5-2-2011; Ord. Z-28-11, 9-19-2011; Ord. Z-7-13, 5-20-2013; Ord.
Z-3-14, 2-3-2014; Ord. Z-8-14, 4-7-2014; Ord. Z-7-14, 5-5-2014; Ord. Z-13-14,
5-5-2014; Ord. Z-23-14, 10-20-2014; Ord. Z-14-15, 7-6-2015; Ord. Z-6-16, 4-4-
2016; Ord. Z-9-16, 6-6-2016; Ord. Z-23-17, 11-6-2017; Ord. Z-10-18, 5-21-2018;
Ord. Z-17-18, 6-18-2018; Ord. Z-23-18, 8-20-2018; Ord. Z-28-18, 9-4-2018; Ord.
Z-31-18, 10-15-2018; Ord. Z-35-18, 12-3-2018; Ord. Z-36-18, 12-3-2018; Ord. Z-
13-19, 6-3-2019; Ord. Z-15-19, 7-1-2019; Ord. Z-17-19, 7-1-2019; Ord. Z-31-19,
12-2-2019; Ord. Z-3-20, 1-6-2020; Ord. Z-4-2020, 1-21-2020; Ord. Z-16-20, 8-3-
2020; Ord. Z-22-2020, 9-21-2020; Ord. Z-55-21, 12-6-2021; Ord. Z-3-22, 2-22-
2022; Ord. Z-6-22, 4-4-2022; Ord. Z-19-22, 7-18-2022; Ord. Z-20-22, 8-1-2022;
Ord. Z-24-22, 8-1-2022; Ord. Z-38-22, 12-29-2022; Ord. Z-40-22, 1-17-2023; Ord.
Z-6-23, 4-3-2023; Ord. Z-17-23, 8-21-2023; Ord. Z-27-23, 10-2-2023; Ord. Z-11-
24, 6-17-2024; Ord. Z-12-24, 6-17-2024; Ord. Z-3-25, 3-3-2025)
CHAPTER 14
MINIMUM SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
12-14-1: Minimum Submission Requirements; Waivers
12-14-2: Minimum Submission Requirements For Site Plan Review
12-14-3: Minimum Submission Requirements For Zoning Certificates
12-14-4: Minimum Submission Requirements For Conditional Uses
12-14-5: Minimum Submission Requirements For Planned Unit Developments
12-14-6: Minimum Submission Requirements For Variations
12-14-7: Minimum Submission Requirements For Amendments
12-14-8: Minimum Submission Requirements For Administrative Interpretations
12-14-9: Minimum Submission Requirements For Building Design Review
12-14-1: MINIMUM SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS; WAIVERS:
As provided for in subsection
12-3-1A3 of this title, the minimum submission requirements for development
approval applications are set forth below. The zoning administrator shall have
the authority, pursuant to subsection
12-3-1A8 of this title, to waive any of the following submission requirements
when, in his judgment, such waiver is appropriate in light of the nature and
extent of the relief being sought or in light of special circumstances making
compliance with those provisions either unnecessary or unduly burdensome. (Ord.
Z-8-98, 9-21-1998)
12-14-2: MINIMUM SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR SITE PLAN REVIEW:
   A.   A completed application containing the applicant's name, address, and
proof of interest in the subject property, and the owner's name and address, if
different than the applicant, and the owner's signed consent to the filing of
the application;
   B.   The street address and legal description of the subject property;
   C.   The zoning classification and present use of the subject property;
   D.   A plan depicting the following elements:
      1.   Elevation contours;
      2.   Existing and proposed easements and rights of way on the site and on
adjacent properties for a distance of fifty feet (50') of the adjacent site's
boundaries;
      3.   Existing and proposed structures on the site and on adjacent
properties for a distance of fifty feet (50') of the adjacent site's
boundaries;
      4.   Existing and proposed landscaping and paving for the site;
      5.   Existing and proposed signage on the site and on adjacent properties
for a distance of fifty feet (50') of the site's boundaries; and
      6.   Scale, north arrow, and dimensions;
   E.   Such other and further information or documentation as the zoning
administrator may deem to be necessary or appropriate for a full and proper
consideration and deposition of the particular application. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-
1998)
12-14-3: MINIMUM SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR ZONING CERTIFICATES:
   A.   A completed application containing the applicant's name, address, and
proof of interest in the subject property, and the owner's name and address, if
different than the applicant, and the owner's signed consent to the filing of
the application;
   B.   The street address and legal description of the subject property;
   C.   The zoning classification and present use of the subject property; and
   D.   Such other and further information or documentation as the zoning
administrator may deem to be necessary or appropriate for a full and proper
consideration and deposition of the particular application. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-
1998)
12-14-4: MINIMUM SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR CONDITIONAL USES:
   A.   A completed application containing the applicant's name, address, and
proof of interest in the subject property, and the owner's name and address, if
different than the applicant, and the owner's signed consent to the filing of
the application;
   B.   The names and addresses of all professional consultants advising the
applicant with respect to the proposed development;
   C.   The street address and legal description of the subject property;
   D.   The zoning classification and present use of the subject property;
   E.   Three (3) copies of a current property survey locating permanent
structures, six (6) copies of a proposed site plan showing the intended use,
and six (6) copies of a traffic study indicating the impact caused by the
intended use. Submitted along with the plans shall be a written description of
the proposed use;
   F.   The particular provision of this title authorizing the proposed
conditional use, and a written statement addressing each of the standards set
forth in subsection
12-3-4E, "Standards For Conditional Uses", of this title, and such additional
standards, if any, as may be imposed by the specific provisions of this title
authorizing such conditional use. The statement shall state specifically how
the proposed conditional use relates to and meets each such standard; and
   G.   Such other and further information or documentation as the zoning
administrator may deem to be necessary or appropriate for a full and proper
consideration and deposition of the particular application. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-
1998)
12-14-5: MINIMUM SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS:
   A.   Preapplication Conference Stage (Optional):
      1.   Survey And Map: A topographic survey and location map.
      2.   General Site Information: Data regarding site conditions, land
characteristics, general land use, zoning, available community facilities and
utilities, existing covenants, and other related general information about land
uses within two hundred feet (200') of the proposed site perimeter.
      3.   Conceptual Plan: A scaled drawing of the site, in simple sketch
form, showing the proposed location and extent of the land uses, major streets,
lots, and other features as they are related to the site.
      4.   Legal Description: A property survey and legal description of the
site proposed for development.
      5.   Tentative Engineering Site Plan: Tentative engineering site plans
for water supply, sewage disposal and surface drainage.
   B.   Preliminary Plat Review Stage:
      1.   Application: A completed application containing the applicant's name
(including the beneficial owners of a land trust), address, and proof of
interest in the subject property, and the owner's name and address, if
different than the applicant, and the owner's signed consent to the filing of
the application.
      2.   Legal Description: A legal description of the site proposed for
development and the street address of the subject property. The title under
which the proposed development is to be recorded, with names and addresses of
owners, and notation stating acreage. Owners shall include beneficial owners of
any land trust.
      3.   Development Concept Plan: Six (6) copies of a development concept
plan of the planned unit development prepared at a scale not less than one inch
equals two hundred feet (1"=200'), intended to show the basic concept, scope,
character, and nature of entire proposed planned unit development. The
submission may be composed of one or more sheets and drawings, and shall
include:
         a.   Boundary lines - bearings, distances and acreage.
         b.   Easements - location, width and purpose.
         c.   Existing land use adjacent to the site.
         d.   General conditions on adjoining land - actual direction and
gradient of ground slope, including any embankments or retaining walls;
character and location of major buildings, railroads, power lines, towers and
other nearby nonresidential land uses or adverse influences; for owners of
adjoining platted land refer to subdivision plat by name, recording date and
number and show approximate percent built up, typical lot size, and dwelling
type.
         e.   Zoning on and adjacent to the tract.
         f.   Proposed public improvements - highways and other collector roads
planned by public authorities for future construction on or near the tract.
         g.   Utilities on, adjacent to, the tract - location, size and invert
elevation of sanitary and storm sewers; location and size of water mains;
location of gas lines, fire hydrants, electric and telephone lines and
streetlights; direction and distance to, and size of nearest water mains and
sewers adjacent to the tract showing invert elevation of sewers.
         h.   Ground elevation on the tract and on the first fifty feet (50')
on all adjacent tracts of land showing one foot (1') contours for land which
slopes less than one-half percent (1/2%) along with all breaks in grades, at
all drainage channels or swells, and at selected points not more than one
hundred feet (100') apart in all directions; for land that slopes more than
one-half percent (1/2%) showing two foot (2') contours. Any land within the
100-year floodplain within the project area shall be identified on these plans.
         i.   Open space - all parcels of land intended to be dedicated for
public use or reserved for the use of all property owners, with the purpose
indicated.
      4.   Schedule: Development schedule indicating:
         a.   Stages in which project will be built, with emphasis on area,
density, use and public facilities, such as open space to be developed with
each stage. Each stage shall be described and mapped as a unit of the project.
Overall design of each unit shall be shown on the plan and through supporting
graphic material.
         b.   Anticipated dates for beginning and completion of each stage.
      5.   Typical Floor Plans And Elevations: Six (6) copies of typical floor
plans and elevation plans for all prototype buildings shall be submitted to
permit an understanding of the style of the development, the design of the
building, and the number, size, and type of dwelling units.
      6.   Preliminary Engineering Site Plan: Three (3) copies of preliminary
engineering site plans and feasibility reports for:
         a.   Roads, including classification, width of right of way, width of
pavement, and construction details.
         b.   Sidewalks.
         c.   Sanitary sewers.
         d.   Storm drainage.
         e.   Water supply system.
         f.   Street lighting.
         g.   Public utilities.
      7.   Landscaping Plans: Six (6) copies of a landscaping plan depicting
the location of all buffer and transitional landscaping areas for the planned
unit development and a typical perimeter landscaping cross section plan for the
site.
      8.   Traffic Analysis: Six (6) copies of a traffic study indicating the
impact caused by the planned unit development on the street and highway systems
operating in the city will be required.
      9.   Additional Surveys And Studies: If requested by the zoning
administrator, the following additional surveys and studies shall be provided:
         a.   Market Survey: Documentation indicating the extent of market
demand for the uses proposed in the planned unit development including analysis
of demographics, sales potentials, competitive alignment, assessment of market
share and market positioning of each component of the planned unit development.
         b.   Fiscal Impact Analysis: A study indicating the fiscal impact of
the planned unit development on major taxing bodies which shall include, but
not be limited to, the municipal corporation, school district(s), and other
taxing bodies. Information will include detailed estimates on: expected
population of the development; the operating cost to be incurred by each taxing
body; any additional major capital investments required, in part or in whole,
because of the planned unit development; revenue generated for each taxing body
by the planned unit development to offset service and fiscal demands created by
the planned unit development. The study should include a cash flow analysis
based on the proposed staging of the planned unit development.
         c.   Community Impact Analysis: A study of the impact caused by the
planned unit development on planning and development, infrastructure and
utilities, transportation, community character, social and development
character, and fiscal impact within the city will be required.
         d.   Environmental Analysis: A study analyzing the major impacts of
the planned unit development on the environment and all major negative impacts
shall be disclosed. Generally, these impacts would include effects on discrete
ecosystems, and effects on sensitive land areas, such as floodplains, wetlands,
forests, aquifer recharge areas, historic buildings or structures, or prairie
landscapes, and mineral resource reserves.
      10.   Miscellaneous: Such additional documents as may be required by the
zoning administrator. The zoning administrator shall inform the applicant of
such requirements after the preapplication stage.
   C.   Final Plat Review Stage:
      1.   Final Detailed Plan: Six (6) copies of a final plat, suitable for
recording with the Cook County recorder's office, shall be prepared by the
petitioner. The final plat of the planned unit development shall include, but
not be limited to:
         a.   Proof of final approval of engineering site plans.
         b.   An accurate legal description of the entire area under immediate
development within the planned unit development.
         c.   If subdivided lands are included in the planned unit development,
a subdivision plat of all subdivided lands in the same form and meeting all the
requirements of a normal subdivision plat in accordance with the city's
subdivision provisions.
         d.   An accurate legal description of each separate unsubdivided use
area, including open space.
         e.   Designation of the location of all building envelopes, and a
designation of the specific internal uses to which each building shall be put.
         f.   General location, purpose, and height of each building, including
construction details, showing centerline elevations, pavement type, curbs,
gutters, culverts, etc., and a street numbering designation shall be furnished
for each building.
         g.   Certifications, seals, and signatures required for the dedication
of land and recording of the document.
         h.   Tabulation on each separate subdivided use area, including land
area, number of buildings, floor area, building height, the amount and location
of common open space, the hours of operation, number of employees, and specific
uses, and the number of dwelling units per acre.
         i.   Construction schedule.
         j.   Service facilities. Provide information on all service
facilities, driveways, private streets, paths and off street parking
facilities.
         k.   Covenants. Proposed agreements, provisions, or covenants which
will govern the use, maintenance, and continue protection of the planned unit
development and any of its common open space. Proposed condominium declaration
and bylaws of condominium form of ownership or homeowners' association if it is
to be used in the planned unit development.
      2.   Architectural Plans: One copy of preliminary architectural plans for
all primary buildings shall be submitted in sufficient detail to permit an
understanding of the style of the development, the design of the building, and
the number, size, and type of dwelling units.
      3.   Landscape Plan: Three (3) copies of a detailed landscape planting
plan for the site including a plant list containing the common and botanical
names, sizes at the time of installation, and quantities of all plants,
permanent signs and street fixtures. A "typical" planting detail may be
provided for any area such as a building foundation that will use a specific
planting layout in more than one location on the site.
      4.   Environmental Analysis: If requested by the zoning administrator,
the specific impacts of the planned unit development on the environment shall
be analyzed and all major negative impacts shall be disclosed. Generally, these
impacts would include effects on discrete ecosystems, any deterioration in the
groundwater or surface water quality, and effects on sensitive land areas, such
as floodplains, wetlands, forests, aquifer recharge areas, historic buildings
or structures, or prairie landscapes, and mineral resource reserves. (Ord. Z-8-
98, 9-21-1998)
12-14-6: MINIMUM SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR VARIATIONS:
   A.   A completed application containing the applicant's name, address, and
proof of interest in the subject property, and the owner's name and address, if
different than the applicant, and the owner's signed consent to the filing of
the application;
   B.   The address and legal description of the subject property;
   C.   The names and addresses of all professional consultants advising the
applicant with respect to the proposed development;
   D.   Two (2) copies of a property survey, certified by a registered land
surveyor, showing existing lot lines and dimensions as well as lot area, all
easements, all public and private rights of way and all streets across and
adjacent to the subject property;
   E.   A statement indicating the specific provision of this title from which
a variation is sought, and also containing all the circumstances, factors, and
arguments that the applicant offers in support of the proposed variation,
including an explanation of how the application satisfies each standard set
forth in subsection
12-3-6H, "Findings Of Fact For Variation", of this title;
   F.   A description, plan or graphic representation of any development or
construction that will occur or any use that will be established or maintained
if the requested relief is granted;
   G.   A letter of acknowledgment from each adjacent property owner indicating
that he or she has notice of the proposed variance; and
   H.   Such other and further information or documentation as the zoning
administrator may deem to be necessary or appropriate for a full and proper
consideration and deposition of the particular application. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-
1998)
12-14-7: MINIMUM SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR AMENDMENTS:
   A.   A completed application containing the petitioner's name, address, and
interest in the petition and the names, address and interest of every person,
firm, corporation, or governmental agency represented by the petitioner in the
petition;
   B.   The precise wording of the proposed amendment, together with concise
explanation of its presumed effect;
   C.   A statement containing all the circumstances, factors, and arguments
that the petitioner offers in support of the proposed amendment, including an
explanation of how the petition satisfies each of the standards set forth in
subsection
12-3-7E, "Standards For Amendments", of this title;
   D.   In the event that the proposed amendment would result in the
reclassification of any property:
      1.   A statement specifying the names of the owners of the land proposed
to be reclassified. (Owners of a majority of the land must be parties to a
petition to reclassify land.);
      2.   The street address of the land proposed to be reclassified;
      3.   A legal description of the land proposed to be reclassified; and
      4.   The present zoning classification and use of the land proposed to be
reclassified; and
   E.   Such other and further information or documentation as the zoning
administrator may deem to be necessary or appropriate for a full and proper
consideration and deposition of the particular application. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-
1998)
12-14-8: MINIMUM SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR ADMINISTRATIVE INTERPRETATIONS:
   A.   A completed application containing the applicant's name, address, and
proof of interest in the subject property, and the owner's name and address, if
different than the applicant, and the owner's signed consent to the filing of
the application;
   B.   The specific provision or provisions of this title for which an
interpretation is sought;
   C.   The facts and the specific situation giving rise to the request for
interpretation;
   D.   The precise interpretation claimed by the applicant to be correct;
   E.   When a use interpretation is sought:
      1.   The use permitted pursuant to the present zoning classification of
the subject property that is claimed by the applicant to include, or to be most
similar to, the proposed use;
      2.   A statement containing all the circumstances, factors, and arguments
that the applicant offers in support of the proposed use interpretation,
including an explanation of how the petition satisfies each of the standards
set forth in subsection
12-3-8E, "Standards For Use Interpretations", of this title; and
      3.   Such other and further information or documentation as the zoning
administrator may deem to be necessary or appropriate for a full and proper
consideration and deposition of the particular application. (Ord. Z-8-98, 9-21-
1998)
12-14-9: MINIMUM SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDING DESIGN REVIEW:
   A.   Full Color Building Elevations: Three (3) copies. The elevations
submitted with the application must be legible and to scale. Measure height
from top of curb to roof peak, midpoint of sloped roof, and from eaves. Show
the following:
      1.   All sides of the proposed building(s), labeled according to which
direction the building faces (i.e., north face, south face, etc.);
      2.   Primary, secondary and tertiary building massing;
      3.   A clear identification of all building materials and textures to be
used on the facades;
      4.   Adjoining buildings (side or rear) in outline form;
   B.   City Of Des Plaines Material Data Sheet: Three (3) copies;
   C.   Landscape Plan: Three (3) copies of a detailed landscape planting plan
for the site including a plant list containing the common and botanical names,
sizes at the time of installation, and quantities of all plants, permanent
signs and street fixtures. A "typical" planting detail may be provided for any
area such as a building foundation that will use a specific planting layout in
more than one location on the site;
   D.   Plat Of Survey: Three (3) copies of a current property survey locating
permanent structures; and
   E.   Site Plan: Three (3) copies of a proposed site plan showing the
intended use. (Ord. Z-11-14, 4-7-2014)
TITLE 13
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
13-1-1: Definitions
13-1-2: Subdivision Required
13-1-3: Fees
13-1-4: Penalties
13-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this title the definitions contained herein shall be
observed and applied, except when the context clearly indicates otherwise.
Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words used in the
singular number shall include the plural number, and the plural the singular.
The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary; the word "may" is
permissive.
ALLEY: A public right of way which affords a secondary means of vehicular
access to the rear or side of property abutting on a street.
APPLICANT: The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his representative.
ARTERIAL STREET: A street used or intended to be used for heavy traffic, of
considerable continuity and used primarily as a traffic artery between areas of
the city for through movements of vehicles.
BLOCK: A group of lots existing within well defined boundaries, usually being
an area surrounded by streets or other physical barriers, and having an
assigned number or letter through which it may be identified.
BOND: Any form of security including a cash deposit, surety bond, collateral,
property, or instrument of credit in a form satisfactory to the city attorney.
BUILDING: Any structure built for the support, shelter, or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or movable property of any kind and includes any
structure.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: A line nearest the front of and across a lot or parcel
establishing the minimum open space to be provided between the front line of a
building or structure and the line of the fronting street right of way.
COLLECTOR STREET: A street designed for carrying traffic from minor streets to
the major system of arterial streets.
CROSSWALK: A strip of land dedicated for public usage, reserved across a block
for the purpose of providing pedestrian access to adjacent areas.
CUL-DE-SAC: A street having one open end and being permanently terminated by
vehicle turnaround at the other end.
DIRECTOR OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT: The administrative official responsible for
administering and enforcing the city's subdivision regulations.
EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner of the use of land for a specific
purpose.
EXTRATERRITORIAL PLAT APPROVAL JURISDICTION: The unincorporated area within one
and one-half (11/2) miles of the corporate limits of the city and not included
in any other municipality or as otherwise set forth in the applicable state
statutes.
FINAL PLAT: The map or plat of record of a subdivision and any accompanying
material, as described in these regulations.
FLOODPLAIN: Those areas so designated, described and/or mapped according to
title 14, chapter 1 of this code.
FRONTAGE: The side of a lot abutting on a street or way and ordinarily regarded
as the front of the lot, but it shall not be considered as the ordinary side of
a corner lot.
FRONTAGE STREET: A minor street auxiliary to and located on the side of an
arterial street for control of access and for service to the abutting
development.
GRADE: The slope of any portion of the earth's surface or any improvements
placed thereon, specified in percent.
IMPROVEMENTS, PUBLIC: Any facility or infrastructure: (i) for which the city or
other governmental body may ultimately assume ownership or the responsibility
for maintenance and operation, or (ii) which is privately owned but constructed
for public use or benefit, including, without limitation, stormwater detention
facilities, water and sewer mains, and roads.
LOT: The basic unit of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended to be the
unit by which such land would be individually developed and transferred.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the intersection of two (2) streets, the
interior angle of such intersection not exceeding one hundred thirty five
degrees (135°).
LOT DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the rear
lot line of a lot measured within the lot boundaries.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot having a pair of opposite lot lines along two (2)
or more or less parallel public or private streets, and which is not a corner
lot. On a through lot, both street lines shall be deemed front lot lines.
LOT OF RECORD: An area of land designated as a lot on a plat of subdivision
recorded or registered, pursuant to statute, with the recorder of deeds or the
registrar of titles of Cook County.
LOT, REVERSED CORNER: A corner lot, the street side lot line of which is
substantially a continuation of the front lot line of the first lot to its
rear.
LOT WIDTH: The mean horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot
measured within the lot boundaries.
NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION: A subdivision whose intended use is other than
residential, such as commercial or industrial.
OFF SITE: Any premises not located within the area of the property to be
subdivided, whether or not in the same ownership of the applicant for
subdivision approval.
OWNER: Any person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or
corporations, trust, or any other legal entity having legal title to or
sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to be subdivided under these
regulations.
PRELIMINARY PLAT: The preliminary drawing or drawings described in these
regulations, indicating the proposed manner or layout of the subdivision to be
submitted to the planning and zoning board for approval.
REGISTERED ENGINEER: An engineer properly licensed and registered in the state
of Illinois.
REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR: A land surveyor properly licensed and registered in
the state of Illinois.
RESUBDIVISION: A change in a map or an approved or recorded subdivision plat if
such change affects any street layout on such map or area reserved thereon for
public use, or any lot line; or if it affects any map or plan legally recorded
prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling subdivisions.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a street,
crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline,
water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, shade trees, or for another special
use. The usage of the term "right of way" for land platting purposes shall mean
that every right of way hereafter established and shown on a final plat is to
be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such right of way
and not included within the dimensions or areas of such lots or parcels. Rights
of way intended for streets, crosswalks, water mains, sanitary sewers, storm
drains, shade trees, or any other use involving maintenance by a public agency
shall be dedicated to public use by the maker of the plat on which such right
of way is established.
ROAD RIGHT OF WAY: The distance between property lines measured at right angles
to the centerline of the street.
SALE OR LEASE: Any immediate or future transfer of ownership, or any possessory
interest in land, including contract of sale, lease, devise, intestate
succession, or transfer, of an interest in a subdivision or part thereof,
whether by metes and bounds, deed, contract, plat, map, lease, devise,
intestate succession or other written instrument.
SKETCH PLAT: A sketch preparatory to the preparation of the preliminary plat to
enable the subdivider to save time and expense in reaching general agreement
with the planning and zoning board as to the form of the plat and the
objectives of these regulations.
SUBDIVISION: Any change, resubdivision or rearrangement in the boundary or
division lines of a parcel of property or public thoroughfare. Subdivision
includes the division or development of residential and nonresidential zoned
land, whether by deed, metes and bounds description, devise, intestacy, lease,
map, plat or other recorded instrument.
SUBDIVISION PLAT: The final map or drawing, described in these regulations, on
which the subdivider's plan of subdivision is presented to the planning and
zoning board and the city council for approval and which, if approved, may be
submitted to the county clerk or recorder of deeds for filing. (Ord. M-21-78,
7-3-1978; amd. Ord. M-23-91, 6-17-1991; Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015; Ord. M-30-22,
11-7-2022)
13-1-2: SUBDIVISION REQUIRED:
The sale of a zoning lot, as defined by section
12-13-3 of the zoning code, which is in a nonresidentially zoned area, and
which is not a "lot of record", as defined by section
12-13-3 of the zoning code, is prohibited.
Any such zoning lot must be subdivided pursuant to this title to create
appropriate lots of record before the sale can be completed. (Ord. M-20-95, 4-
17-1995)
13-1-3: FEES:
Any person who files a request for subdivision with the city, as set forth in
this title, shall pay a subdivision filing fee to the city at the time of
filing, as indicated below:
   A.   Filing fee for each subdivision which shall be paid at the time of
filing with city council:
 
1 acre or less                      $250.00 plus $3.00 per lot
More than 1 acre but less than 5    $300.00 plus $3.00 per lot
More than 5 acres but less than 10  $350.00 plus $3.00 per lot
More than 10 acres but less than 20 $500.00 plus $3.00 per lot
More than 20 acres                  $650.00 plus $3.00 per lot
 
(Ord. M-64-01, 11-5-2001)
   B.   Additional fees which shall be paid upon final approval by the city
council:
      1.   Engineering subdivision reviewing fee: Two percent (2%) of estimated
value of improvements.
      2.   Engineering inspection fee: Three percent (3%) of estimated value of
improvements.
      3.   Acreage fee for each subdivision:
         $55.00 per acre for water
         110.00 per acre for sewer
      4.   Prior to the recording of the final plat, the subdivider shall file
a performance and completion bond (subdivisions improvement bond) in the amount
of one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the city engineer's estimate of
the improvements cost. (Ord. M-12-94, 2-7-1994)
13-1-4: PENALTIES:
Whoever shall sell or offer for sale or lease any lot or block subject to these
regulations or any additions thereto, or any resubdivision of any lot or block
therein before all requirements of this title have been complied with or any
person who violates, disobeys or omits, neglects or refuses to comply with or
who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this title shall be
fined as provided in the general penalty in section 1-4- 1 of this code for
each offense. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist after
notification thereof shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. M-29-82, 4-5-
1982; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PROCEDURES AND PLATS
SECTION:
13-2-1: Subdivision Application Procedure
13-2-2: Tentative Plat
13-2-3: Planning And Zoning Board's Procedure
13-2-4: Final Plat And Supporting Documents
13-2-5: Final Plat Requirements
13-2-6: Variations By Planning And Zoning Board
13-2-7: Approval Of Final Plat By Planning And Zoning Board
13-2-8: Final Plat Approval By City Council; Completion And Acceptance Of
Public Improvements
13-2-9: Amendments To Final Plat
13-2-10: Time Limits For Approval
13-2-1: SUBDIVISION APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Submission: Any owner of land within the city, or within one and one-
half (1½) miles of the corporate limits, wishing to divide the land into two
(2) or more tracts, sites or lots for the purpose of building, improvement,
sale or assessment, either immediate or future, or a resubdivision for any such
purpose shall submit the following to the planning and zoning board through the
Department of Community and Economic Development:
      1.   One copy of a completed subdivision application form.
      2.   The required filing fee as established by resolution of the city
council.
      3.   Eight (8) copies, or in a volume and format determined by the
director of Community and Economic Development, of a tentative plat meeting
those specifications as set forth in section
13-2-2 of this chapter and/or a final plat meeting those specifications set
forth in section
13-2-4 and
13-2-5 of this chapter, if the applicant is choosing to file tentative and
final plat applications concurrently.
   B.   Application: The application form provided by the Department of
Community and Economic Development shall be completed and signed by the owner
of the property at the time of application, or the property owner shall provide
written consent. Proof of ownership in the form of a copy of a torrens
certificate, deed or title and trust company policy shall be provided at the
time of application.
Whenever the owner or applicant of any real estate for which a subdivision is
requested is a land trust, the application form shall be signed by the trust
officer of the institution holding the trust. The application shall be
accompanied by a full disclosure in writing of the names of the beneficiaries
under said trust at the time of such application and within twelve (12) months
immediately preceding the filing of such application. Any such application
shall be accompanied by a certified copy of the trust agreement and a
certificate of the trustee that the beneficiaries are as stated by the owner or
applicant.
   C.   Timing: An application for subdivision must be received no later than
thirty (30) working days prior to the next scheduled planning and zoning board
meeting to be placed on the agenda for that meeting. Persons wishing to review
a project informally may do so with the director of Community and Economic
Development during normal working hours or with the planning and zoning board
at any meeting. Information review of projects at regular planning and zoning
board meetings will be accomplished as time permits.
   D.   Review: The director of Community and Economic Development shall refer
a copy of the proposed tentative and/or final plat submittals to the heads of
appropriate city departments for their review and written comments. These
reviews will be included in the file of the proposed subdivision for
consideration by the planning and zoning board.
   E.   Notification: A conspicuous sign shall be posted on the subject
property at least seven (7) days prior to the planning and zoning board meeting
at which the plat will be considered for tentative approval. Such sign shall
indicate that the property is subject to being subdivided and refer all
inquiries to the Department of Community and Economic Development. (Ord. M-21-
78, 7-3-1978; amd. Ord. M-23-91, 6-17-1991; 2002 Code; Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015;
Ord. M-29-22, 11-7-2022)
13-2-2: TENTATIVE PLAT:
Each tentative plat submittal will include the following specifications:
   A.   Scale: Each tentative plat shall be drawn to the scale of not less than
one hundred feet to one inch (1" = 100'). The tentative plat shall show the
boundaries of the property to be subdivided, section and half section lines,
existing permanent buildings, watercourses and other existing features
pertinent to proper subdivision.
   B.   Municipal Boundaries: All corporate boundary lines within or adjacent
to the proposed subdivision shall be so designated.
   C.   Streets: The widths of roads, streets, with their names and alleys;
dimensions of lots and blocks and building lines shall be shown. The full
widths of streets bounding the proposed subdivision, with their names and the
widths and names of intersecting streets in the property immediately adjacent
shall be shown. All streets shall be carried to the boundaries of the proposed
subdivision.
   D.   Names: The name of the proposed subdivision with the name of the owner,
sponsor or trustees shall be shown.
   E.   Utility Easements: Tentative approval of utility easements by all
privately owned utility companies shall be indicated via written
correspondence. The Planning and Zoning Board may waive this requirement,
conditioned upon the subdivider obtaining approval through the Final Plat
process.
   F.   Dedication Of Land: Proposed dedications of land for public use shall
be shown.
   G.   Utility Poles, Cables And Structures: All existing and proposed utility
poles, cables and structures to include sanitary and storm sewers, water and
gas mains and other underground lines and cables shall be shown. The size of
sewer and water mains shall be shown. This requirement may be waived by the
planning and zoning board with the recommendation of the city engineer. (Ord.
M-21-78, 7-3-1978; amd. Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015; Ord. M-29-22, 11-7-2022)
13-2-3: PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD'S PROCEDURE:
The planning and zoning board shall approve or disapprove the tentative plat;
provided however, that if the tentative plat is not satisfactory as originally
presented, the board may cause the subdivider to make such changes as may be
required by the board and thereupon approve the same. If the applicant submits
the tentative and final plat applications separately, upon approval of the
tentative plat, the applicant will receive a tentative plat checklist granting
approval of the tentative plat. If the applicant has submitted both
applications concurrently, pursuant to all Final Plat requirements of this
title, the board may proceed to considering the final plat.
   A.   The applicant will be instructed by the planning and zoning board to
collaborate with the city engineer in the preparation of applicable cost
estimates, plans, specifications and contracts for required public
improvements.
   B.   One copy of the approved plat shall thereupon be returned to the
subdivider and one copy shall be retained by the Department of Community and
Economic Development. Such approval shall be effective for no more than twelve
(12) months from the date approval was granted. If a final plat has not been
submitted for approval within such twelve (12) month period, the tentative plat
must be resubmitted to the planning and zoning board as if such plat had never
been approved. (Ord. M-21-78, 7-3-1978; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-
2015; Ord. M-29-22, 11-7-2022)
13-2-4: FINAL PLAT AND SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS:
After the planning and zoning board has approved the tentative plat, the
subdivider shall submit to the planning and zoning board a final plat as
described in section
13-2-5 of this chapter, together with the following supporting documents:
   A.   Engineering plans and profiles approved by the city engineer in
accordance with the standards for subdivision engineering plans on file in the
office of the city engineer.
The following statement, signed by a professional engineer properly registered
in Illinois and the owner, or the owner’s duly authorized agent, shall be
included on the grading plan:
To the best of our knowledge and belief, the drainage of surface waters will
not be changed by the construction of this subdivision or any part thereof, or,
that if drainage will be changed, reasonable provision has been made for
collection and diversion of such surface waters into public areas, or drains
approved for use by the city engineer, and that such surface waters are planned
for in accordance with generally accepted engineering practices so as to reduce
the likelihood of damage to adjoining properties because of the construction of
this subdivision.
   B.   A statement signed by the Director of Public Works and Engineering
approving an estimate of the cost of the public improvements including cost of
engineering and inspection.
   C.   The required financial guarantees securing completion of public
improvements pursuant to Section
13-2-8 of this Code.
   D.   Any transfer of subdivision ownership by a developer to another
developer for completion of the subdivision shall require:
      1.   That the new owner/developer shall comply with all requirements of
an original subdivision letter of credit.
      2.   That the original letter of credit by the prior owner/developer
shall not be released until the subsequent letter complies with subsection D1
of this section, and that the proper transfer tax certification has been
applied to the proper documents. (Ord. M-21-78, 7-3-1978; amd. Ord. M-53-79,
12-3-1979; Ord. M-63-83, 12-5-1983; Ord. M-74-94, 11-21-1994; 2002 Code; Ord.
Z-29-15, 10-5-2015; Ord. M-30-22, 11-7-2022)
13-2-5: FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS:
The final plat to be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Board shall be in
strict accordance with the approved tentative plat and shall be drawn on
tracing cloth to a scale of not less than one hundred feet to one inch (1" =
100'). The final plat shall meet the following requirements: (Ord. M-9-13, 4-1-
2013; amd. Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
   A.   Name: The name of the proposed subdivision shall be shown.
   B.   Date: The date of preparation and a proper north sign shall be shown.
   C.   Survey: A correct survey of the property proposed to be platted, shall
be shown.
   D.   Legal Description: A legal description of the property shall be given
which includes references to the section, township and range. Government
section lines and corners, half section lines, the location and dimension of
all streets, with their names, alleys and all other lands to be dedicated to
public use; and the lines and dimension of abutting roads and streets, with
their names, and alleys shall be shown.
   E.   Street Names: All streets shall be named in conformity with the street
naming plan of the City or with adjoining streets. In the case of diverging
streets, the name shall be repeated.
   F.   Lot Lines: All lot lines shall be shown, lots and blocks numbered or
lettered; building lines and easements shall be shown and determined by
measurement.
   G.   Dimensions: All necessary dimensions both linear and angular shall be
shown. Linear dimensions shall be shown in feet and decimals of a foot, and all
deflection angles, radii, arcs and central angles of all corners along the
property line of each street shall be shown.
   H.   Monuments: The description and location of all survey monuments erected
in the subdivision shall be shown. The monuments shall be either iron pipe not
less than one inch (1") in diameter and thirty inches (30") long, or stone or
concrete not less than four inches (4") in diameter and twenty four inches
(24") long. Permanent monuments shall be erected at all street corners, at all
points where street lines intersect the exterior boundaries of the subdivision
and at angle points and points of curve in each street.
   I.   Street Connections: Provision shall be made for direct connections with
the existing streets in adjoining subdivisions.
   J.   Dedication Of Lands For Public Use: The plat shall have lettered upon
it a statement of dedication properly conveying all lands dedicated for such
public uses as streets, public schools, parks or any other public use, and
there shall be attached to the plat a certificate of title certifying the
ownership of all such lands to be so dedicated by the plat. (Ord. M-9-13, 4-1-
2013)
   K.   Certificates, Seals And Signatures: All proper certificates, seals and
signatures as required by law shall be shown, including the certificate signed
by the Mayor, Planning and Zoning Board Chairman (if involved), Director of
Finance, and City Engineer. The Director of Finance block shall read as
follows:
      I certify that there are no delinquent or current unpaid special
assessments on the property shown on this plat.
Additionally, IDOT, Maine Township, or Cook County will be required to sign the
plat if subdivision has access onto public right-of-way controlled by one of
the respective entities. Though no signature is required, the Cook County
Clerk's Office shall stamp the plat of subdivision to certify there are no
delinquent taxes on the property. (Ord. Z-17-18, 6-18-2018)
   L.   Right-Of-Way Widths: Rights-of-way for section line streets shall be
not less than one hundred feet (100') wide; half section line streets not less
than eighty feet (80') wide and secondary and residential streets not less than
sixty six feet (66') wide. Cul-de-sacs shall have a minimum right of way radius
of sixty feet (60').
   M.   Alleys: Where alleys are provided they shall be not less than sixteen
feet (16') wide.
   N.   Easements: Where no alleys are platted, easements not less than five
feet (5') wide shall be provided across the rear of all lots for any or all
public utilities. The easements shall be so laid out that a proper continuity
may be had for the utilities from block to block. Certificates of approval of
easement provisions by all private utility companies shall be lettered upon the
plat. The following statement shall also be lettered upon the plat:
Public utility easements provided, shall be for the use of Municipal sewer and
water lines, storm drainage and public utility lines, lines for any cable
television franchise granted by the city, and other municipal uses.
   O.   Setback Lines: Setback lines shall be shown to be in compliance with
the zoning code relating to setbacks, open space and yards for the particular
zoning district within which the subdivision is to be located.
   P.   Block Sizes:
      1.   No block shall be more than one thousand two hundred feet (1,200')
long nor less than two hundred fifty feet (250') wide. A block terminating in a
cul-de-sac shall have a maximum length of six hundred feet (600').
      2.   The city council may, by ordinance, vary the maximum length of a
cul-de-sac. Such a variance to the maximum length shall only be granted based
upon a determination by the city council of special circumstances. The special
circumstances may be determined on a case by case basis to grant a variance to
subsection P1 of this section.
      3.   Such a variation may not be an amendment depending on circumstances
as determined by the city council.
   Q.   Streets Along Railroads: Streets platted along railroad rights of way
shall be so laid out that the nearest street line of the street shall be not
less than one hundred twenty five feet (125') from the nearest line of the
railroad right of way. The intervening area shall be dedicated for park
purposes wherever practicable.
   R.   Lot Depths: The minimum depth of lots shall be one hundred twenty five
feet (125'). No lots with double frontage (through lots) shall be platted;
provided, however, the double frontage lots may be approved if the city council
finds that by covenant or otherwise all structures on any block of the double
frontage lots will be required to face or front on one of the two (2) streets
and that no vehicular access shall be permitted from any of the lots to the
street upon which the structures do not front. Any such lot with double
frontage shall not receive a driveway permit for a driveway to the street upon
which the improvements do not front. Notwithstanding any other provision of
this ordinance, the minimum depth of lots set forth in this section shall not
apply to any residential planned unit development that is exclusively developed
as a townhouse development.
   S.   Lot Areas: The minimum lot area in subdivisions lying within the city
limits shall be not less than those specified by the zoning code for the
district in which the subdivision is located. Those lots fronting on cul-de-
sacs or at the curve of a curvilinear street may reduce the required frontage
from fifty five feet (55') to thirty five feet (35') provided a full fifty five
feet (55') of width is available at the building line.
Outside the corporate limits the minimum area of each lot shall be not less
than the minimum areas specified by the zoning ordinance of Cook County for the
district in which such lots are located. (Ord. M-9-13, 4-1-2013)
   T.   Zoning Variations: The planning and zoning board shall not approve a
plat not in conformity with the zoning code. In the event a variation as to
zoning requirements has been granted by the planning and zoning board on the
property covered by the plat, a statement lettered to this effect shall appear
on the face of the plat containing the date of expiration and other pertinent
information as outlined in section
13-2-6 of this chapter. (Ord. M-9-13, 4-1-2013; amd. Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
   U.   Large Lots: Owners wishing to subdivide into tracts larger than normal
lots shall plat the same of such shape and dimensions that the future streets
may be laid out along the lot lines.
   V.   Lot Frontages: All lots shall front upon a dedicated, public street. In
the case of a residential planned unit development that is exclusively
developed as a townhouse development, buildings may be allowed to front on
either a public street or alley, a private street or alley, or private
courtyard. (Ord. M-9-13, 4-1-2013)
   W.   Utilities: All utility lines, including, but not limited to, electric,
telephone and gas shall be placed underground in all subdivisions. The
requirement for underground utilities in subdivisions of less than five (5)
lots may be waived by the city council upon a recommendation of the planning
and zoning board. (Ord. M-9-13, 4-1-2013; amd. Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
13-2-6: VARIATIONS BY PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD:
   A.   The planning and zoning board may recommend variations from these
requirements in specific cases which do not affect the general plan or the
spirit of this title and which meet the requirements of subsection B of this
section, so long as the said variations do not alter the requirements of the
zoning code, unless a zoning variation shall be granted by the planning and
zoning board or city council. All such variation recommendations shall be
communicated to the city council in writing with the reasons therefore before
the final approval of the plat by that body.
   B.   The planning and zoning board may recommend a variance from these
regulations when, in its option, undue hardship may result from strict
compliance. In recommending any variance, the planning and zoning board shall
prescribe only conditions that it deems necessary to or desirable for the
public interest. In making its findings, as required hereinbelow, the planning
and zoning board shall take into account the nature of the proposed subdivision
and the existing use of land in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside
or work in the proposed subdivision and the probable effect of the proposed
subdivision upon traffic conditions in the vicinity. No variance shall be
recommended unless the planning and zoning board finds: (Ord. M-21-78, 7-3-
1978; amd. Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
      1.   That there are no special circumstances or conditions affecting said
property such that the strict application of the provisions of this title would
deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of his land.
      2.   That the variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of
a substantial property right of the petitioner.
      3.   That the granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property in the territory in which said
property is situated. (Ord. M-21-78, 7-3-1978)
   C.   Subdivision plats of property having received approval of a zoning
variation by the planning and zoning board or city council shall contain the
following statement: (Ord. M-21-78, 7-3-1978; amd. Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
      Zoning variation granted                 for zoning case number
                to allow the construction of                 on lot(s)
              expires                .
   (Ord. M-21-78, 7-3-1978)
13-2-7: APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT BY PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD:
When the planning and zoning board has approved the final plat the following
official stamp shall be stamped or lettered upon the final plat, signed by the
chair of the planning and zoning board and attested by its secretary:
Approved by the city planning and zoning board of the city of Des Plaines, Cook
County, Illinois, this        day of         ,          A.D.
Signed:                              chair
Attested:                            secretary
The planning and zoning board shall then transmit the approved final plat to
the city council together with a letter of transmittal calling the city
council's attention to all variations, if any, recommended by the board and
setting forth its reasons for approving the same, and conveying to the city
council such other information concerning the final plat as the board may deem
necessary.
With the approved final plat, the planning and zoning board shall also transmit
to the city council the subdivider's agreement with respect to improvements,
the city engineer's approval of improvements and all plans, specifications,
estimates, completion bonds and all other documents, certificates and papers
pertaining to the final plat and the subdivision platted thereon. (Ord. M-21-
78, 7-3-1978; amd. Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
13-2-8: FINAL PLAT APPROVAL BY CITY COUNCIL; COMPLETION AND ACCEPTANCE OF
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   City Council Approval: When the city council is satisfied with the
final plat and with all improvements, conditions, variations, public ways and
recorded easements and documents pertaining to the subdivision platted thereon,
the city council shall, by resolution, approve said plat and authorize and
direct the mayor to affix the name of the city. The approval shall be attested
by the city clerk and sealed with the corporate seal of the city.
   B.   Financial Guarantees Securing Completion of Public Improvements:
      1.   Financial Guarantees Required. Prior to the execution of, and as a
condition precedent to the recording of, any final plat of subdivision, the
subdivider must deposit the following financials guarantees in the form of a
letter of credit or a subdivision bond (each in a form to be approved by the
City Attorney), or cash:
         a.   Guarantee of Completion: the subdivider must deposit a financial
guarantee with the City to guarantee completion of all public improvements as
determined by the Director of Public Works and Engineering in an amount equal
to one hundred and twenty-five percent (125%) of the approved engineer's
estimate of cost for the public improvements, with the following terms as
follows:
            (1)   An expiration date not less than three years from the date of
issuance or an express provision that such guarantee will not expire prior to
completion and acceptance of the public improvements by the City Council;
provided, however, the amount of the letter of credit must be increased by an
amount not less than twenty-five percent (25%) over the original issue amount
each time the letter of credit is renewed, except when renewed for the purpose
of satisfying the maintenance warranty requirement pursuant to Subsection B.1.c
of this Section;
            (2)   That the financial or insurance company issuing the surety
shall give written notice by certified or registered mail to the City Clerk not
less than thirty (30) days before the expiration of the surety, which surety
shall not expire absent such notice;
            (3)   That failure of the subdivider to complete the required
subdivision public improvements secured by such guarantee of completion prior
to the scheduled completion date shall be considered a default by the
subdivider and the issuing institution and the guarantee will be forfeited to
the City;
            (4)   That the financial guarantee shall be irrevocable;
            (5)   That (in the case of payout instrument) the principal amount
of the instrument will not be discharged or reduced by the issuer except upon
written certificate of the City Manager or the City Council, as applicable,
that such surety may be discharged or reduced in a specified amount in
accordance with subsection b below; and
            (6)   That the issuer will pay all attorney's fees and other costs
incurred by the City in enforcing collection of such guarantee of completion in
the event that the issuer fails to honor the City's demand for payment under
the terms of such guarantee.
         b.    Guarantee of Completion Reduction Requests. Prior to the
completion and acceptance of all of the public improvements, the guarantee of
completion submitted in accordance with this Subsection may be reduced or
partially discharged as follows:
            (1)   The subdivider must have submitted a written request to the
City with supporting documentation for the reduction;
            (2)   The Director of Public Works and Engineering, or their
designee, must have inspected and approved the completed public improvements
and the usual and customary waivers of lien for the applicable public
improvements, and recommend that the surety be reduced accordingly;
            (3)   Upon the receipt of the recommendation of the Director of
Public Works and Engineering, the City Council may authorize the reduction of
said guarantee of completion;
            (4)   One reduction request will be processed by the City every
eight months, beginning with the date the guarantee was first deposited with
the City with no additional fees due from the subdivider. A four hundred
dollars ($400.00) administrative processing fee will be charged by the City for
each additional surety reduction request during any eight-month period.
         c.   Maintenance Warranty.
            (1)   At the same time the subdivider deposits the guarantee of
completion, the subdivider must also deposit with the City a maintenance
warranty in the form set forth for the guarantee of completion in Subsection
B.1.a of this Section and in an amount equal to ten percent the guarantee of
completion; provided, however, that any amount over fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) may be deposited at a later date but, in any event, must be
deposited prior to the City's final acceptance of the public improvements and
the release of the guarantee of completion.
            (2)   The maintenance warranty may not be reduced and must be kept
on file with the City for eighteen (18) months following final acceptance of
the public improvements by the City.
            (3)   The maintenance warranty shall secure the guaranty and
warranty of the subdivider that all of the public improvements will remain free
from any and all defects of any kind; shall be in accordance with the approved
plans and specifications; and shall function as intended and designed, as of
the date of final acceptance and for a period of eighteen (18) months
thereafter. Only ordinary wear and tear is excluded from the scope of this
warranty and guarantee.
      2.   Final Acceptance of the Subdivision Public Improvements; Release of
Guarantee of Completion:
         a.   When (i) all required public improvements are completed and
approved by the Director of Public Works and Engineering, (ii) a certification
of completion from the project engineer has been received, (iii) all lien
waivers have been received, and (iv) the maintenance warranty required by this
subsection has been received, the Director of Public Works and Engineering
shall submit to the city council a final report stating a request to accept the
public improvements as complete and in conformance with description, plans and
specifications submitted to and approved by the City. Upon subdivision
completion and acceptance of the final report of the Director of Public Works
and Engineering, the City Council will accept the public improvements pursuant
to a formal resolution.
         b.   Upon final acceptance of the public improvements by the City
Council in accordance with this subsection, the Director of Public Works and
Engineering may recommend to the City Council release the remaining guarantee
of completion, which release will be approved by resolution.
      3.   Interest and Bond Forfeiture: All interest on any cash portion of
the guarantee of completion or maintenance warranty shall be forfeited if
construction of the public improvements has not commenced within one year of
the date of recording of the subdivision plat. If construction of the public
improvements has not commenced within eighteen (18) months of the date of the
recording of the subdivision plat, the city council may confiscate the ten
percent (10%) maintenance warranty and the guarantee of completion. (Ord. M-43-
80, 10-6-1980; amd. Ord. M-23-91, 6-17-1991; Ord. M-74-94, 11-21-1994; Ord. M-
37-96, 8-19-1996; 2002 Code; Ord. M-30-22, 11-7-2022)
13-2-9: AMENDMENTS TO FINAL PLAT:
Any changes, variations, amendments, to the approved final plat of subdivision
shall require: (Ord. M-29-82, 4-5-1982; amd. Ord. M-23-91, 6-17-1991)
   A.   Approval by the planning and zoning board and the city council in the
same manner as such final plat of subdivision.
   B.   Written recommendation and approval by the director of community
development and city engineer, prior to resubmission to the planning and zoning
board and city council. (Ord. M-29-82, 4-5-1982; amd. Ord. M-23-91, 6-17-1991;
Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
   C.   No right, title or interest of the city in any duly granted easement
may be waived, released, canceled or otherwise altered without prior city
council approval. (Ord. M-29-82, 4-5-1982; amd. Ord. M-23-91, 6-17-1991)
13-2-10: TIME LIMITS FOR APPROVAL:
   A.   The planning and zoning board shall approve or disapprove the
application for preliminary approval within ninety (90) days from the date of
the application or the filing by the applicant of the last item of required
supporting data, whichever date is later, unless such time is extended by
mutual consent. If such plat is disapproved, then within ninety (90) days the
planning and zoning board shall furnish to applicant in writing a statement
setting forth the reason for disapproval and specifying with particularity the
aspects in which the proposed plat fails to conform to the ordinances including
official map. Preliminary approval shall not qualify a plat for recording.
   B.   Application for final approval of a plat shall be made not later than
twelve (12) months after preliminary approval has been granted.
   C.   The applicant may elect to have final approval of a geographic part or
parts of the plat that received preliminary approval, and may delay application
for approval of other parts until a later date or dates beyond twelve (12)
months with the approval of the planning and zoning board; provided, all
facilities required to serve the part or parts for which final approval is
sought have been provided. In such case only such part or parts of the plat as
have received final approval shall be recorded.
   D.   A building permit for development on the subject property shall not be
issued until the final plat is recorded.
   E.   When a person submitting a plat of subdivision or resubdivision for
final approval has supplied all drawings, maps and other documents required to
be furnished in support thereof, and if all such material meets all municipal
requirements, the corporate authorities shall approve the proposed plat within
sixty (60) days from the date of filing the last required document or other
paper or within sixty (60) days from the date of filing application for final
approval of the plat, whichever date is later. The applicant and the corporate
authorities may mutually agree to extend the sixty (60) day period.
   F.   The final plat and all drawings, documents, agreements, and other
corresponding items required by the city to be recorded shall be recorded
within 18 months of city council approval of the final plat.
   G.   If within 18 months of city council approval of the final plat,
improvement agreements, plans, specifications and estimates, the subdivider has
failed to deposit tree planting fees, bonds, letter of credit or escrow monies
covering the cost of improvements as per the city engineer’s estimate and
approved plans and specifications, all prior planning and zoning board and city
council preliminary and final approvals shall become null and void. (Ord. M-29-
82, 4-5-1982; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015; Ord. Z-15-20, 6-1-2020)
CHAPTER 3
DESIGN IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
13-3-1: Improvement Of Roadways
13-3-2: Additional Improvements Within City Limits
13-3-3: Additional Improvements Outside City Limits
13-3-4: Public Improvements, Approval By Engineer
13-3-5: Inspection At Subdivider's Expense
13-3-1: IMPROVEMENT OF ROADWAYS:
The subdivider shall improve all streets within or adjacent to the subdivision
with curb, gutter and pavement at his own expense in accordance with the
following requirements: (Ord. M-21-78, 7-3-1978)
   A.   Residential And Commercial Streets: The minimum width of the roadway so
improved shall be twenty eight feet (28') back to back of curb, except those
streets designated by the planning and zoning board as major streets, which
major streets shall have a minimum width of thirty four feet (34'). Cul-de-sacs
shall have a minimum roadway radius of forty five feet (45'). (Ord. M-13-85, 2-
18-1985; amd. Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
   B.   Industrial Streets: The minimum width of the roadway for industrial
streets as measured back to back of curb shall be twenty eight feet (28').
Major streets, when so designated by the planning and zoning board, shall have
a minimum width of thirty four feet (34') as measured back to back of curb.
(Ord. M-21-78, 7-3-1978; amd. Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
   C.   Conformance With State Regulations: Design of residential and
industrial streets shall conform with section 7, pavement design, of the design
manual, Illinois department of transportation, bureau of design, latest issue.
Calculations and information as required by said section 7, pavement design,
shall be submitted to the city engineer for review and approval. Permitted base
course materials are limited to portland cement concrete, bituminous aggregate
mixture and aggregate base course type B only. Permitted surface course
materials are limited to class I bituminous concrete binder and surface courses
with a marshall stability of one thousand seven hundred (1,700) only. All
methods of construction shall conform to the state of Illinois "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", latest issue. (Ord. M-63-83,
12-5-1983)
13-3-2: ADDITIONAL IMPROVEMENTS WITHIN CITY LIMITS:
The subdivider of any proposed subdivision lying within the city limits shall
also provide at his own expense, public improvements as follows:
   A.   Curb And Driveway Approaches: All streets must be provided with
concrete curb and driveway approaches of a type, size and specifications
approved by the city director of engineering. The engineering department shall
inspect approaches upon a minimum twenty four (24) hours' advance notice.
   B.   Public Sidewalks: Public sidewalks must be provided throughout the
entire subdivision. The sidewalks must be constructed of one course concrete,
not less than five feet (5') wide and not less than four inches (4") in
thickness, consisting of a mixture approved by the city director of
engineering, except that such thickness shall be six inches (6") where said
sidewalk crosses a driveway on top of an approved subbase of compacted CA-6 or
other materials previously approved by the city engineering department. Public
sidewalks which cross utility lines must be reinforced with three-fourths inch
(3/4") rods at least ten feet (10') long.
Note: The ten foot (10') length of rebar installation when not practical to
remove existing sidewalks shall be reduced to that length of sidewalk being
placed or replaced and such rebar shall be doweled into the existing/abutting
sidewalks.
Note: IDOT and CCHD rights of way require a minimum of five inch (5") thickness
of all sidewalks on an approved subbase. (Ord. M-48-07, 8-20-2007)
   C.   Street Trees: Street trees shall be planted throughout the entire
subdivision according to the following standards:
      1.   Trees shall be planted at least thirty feet (30') from street
intersections, and at least fifteen feet (15') from driveways and alleys.
      2.   No tree shall be planted closer than ten feet (10') of a utility
pole.
      3.   Spacing of trees shall be thirty five feet (35') minimum and fifty
feet (50') maximum and shall be determined by the director of public works.
      4.   There shall be no trees planted on parkways less than three feet
(3') in width.
      5.   There shall be no tree plantings on city property unless approved by
the director of public works. (Ord. M-21-78, 7-3-1978)
      6.   Trees shall be a minimum of two inches (2") in diameter.
Only the following species of trees are suitable for planting in subdivisions:
      Calleryana pear (all varieties except Bradford)
      Ginkgo (male only)
      Hawthorne (all varieties tree form only)
      Honeylocust (all seedless and thornless varieties)
      Linden (all species and varieties)
   Norway maple and varieties
      Oak (all varieties except Pin oak)
      White ash and varieties
Any deviation from this list shall be approved in writing by the city forester
or his designee. Additionally, the city forester or his designee shall be
notified at the time of planting.
The subdivider shall make a cash deposit of three hundred dollars ($300.00) per
lot and six hundred dollars ($600.00) per corner lot, to be held by the
director of finance and administrative services to guarantee that the street
trees required to be planted under this subsection are in fact planted within
thirty (30) days from the date of notification by the director of public works
to the subdivider that said trees are planted, and to guarantee that each
building site be cleared and cleaned of all debris, building materials, rubbish
and other materials. Said cash deposit shall be forfeited to the city if any
trees are not planted or any building sites cleaned and cleared as required
herein. Failure to plant said trees or to clear the building site shall be
reason to withhold final approval of the subdivision by the city engineer. The
provisions of this subsection shall also apply to the developer of a single lot
or parcel of land. (Ord. M-17-91, 5-20-1991)
   D.   Street Name Signs: Street name signs of a type approved by the director
of public works shall be provided at all street intersections.
   E.   Water Mains: The water system of the city shall be extended throughout
the entire subdivision in such a manner that every lot in the subdivision may
be serviced by means of a house connection within its own frontage or other
approved method as approved by the city engineer.
   F.   Fire Hydrants:
      1.   Fire hydrants shall be installed throughout the entire subdivision
at intervals not exceeding three hundred feet (300'). No fire hydrant shall be
connected to any water main which is less than six inches (6") in diameter.
2. All fire hydrants shall have a five inch (5") barrel and shall be provided
with two (2) 21/2-inch hose connections and one steamer connection. Each fire
hydrant shall be provided with an individual auxiliary valve.
   G.   Sanitary Sewer: A complete system of sanitary sewers shall be
constructed throughout the entire subdivision in such a manner as to render the
same accessible to every lot within its own frontage or other approved method
as approved by the city engineer. (Ord. M-21-78, 7-3-1978)
Where public sewers are available, the property owner must disconnect from the
private system and connect to the public system. (2002 Code)
If no sewer outlet is available to the subdivision, application for the use of
a private sewer system may be made to the city council. Upon an affirmative
vote of the majority of the entire city council, a private sewer system
comprising septic tanks and tile seepage fields may be used; provided, however,
that the same shall conform with the following conditions: (Ord. M-21-78, 7-3-
1978)
Septic tanks and tile fields shall not be permitted. (Ord. M-21-78, 7-3-1978;
amd. 2002 Code)
   H.   Storm Sewer: A storm sewer system shall be constructed throughout the
entire subdivision which shall be separate and independent of the sanitary
sewer system; provided, a suitable stormwater outlet is available adjoining the
subdivision.
   I.   Streetlights: Streetlights, the locations of which shall be approved by
the director of public works shall be installed throughout and adjacent to the
entire subdivision. (Ord. M-21-78, 7-3-1978)
In the case of small subdivisions of five (5) lots or less, when in the
judgment of the planning and zoning board with advice of the city engineer, no
imminent general improvements are expected in the area of subdivision,
installation of improvements may be delayed until the whole area is improved.
In any case, the subdivider or owner of lots shall be responsible for the
expense of the improvements when and if the general area is improved. (Ord. M-
21-78, 7-3-1978; amd. Ord. Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
   J.   Time Limit: All public improvements shall be constructed within two (2)
years of recording of the subdivision. (Ord. M-74-94, 11-21-1994)
   K.   Alleys: In conjunction with a planned unit development, a subdivision,
or the construction of a multi-family apartment, townhome, or condominium
building, which will use, as a secondary access, a public alley in the city,
the developer or builder, as the case may be, shall as a condition for the
approval of their development or building plans be obligated to repave,
resurface, or reconstruct the alley as the city director of engineering may
determine, based on the condition of the alley. (Ord. M-22-06, 5-15-2006)
   L.   ROW Improvements: Any and all other right of way improvements as
determined necessary by the city director of engineering, city public works
director or any consultants as employed by the city manager's office and/or the
city of Des Plaines council. Such improvements that are determined necessary
shall pertain to any one or all of the following:
      1.   The life safety, health and welfare of the occupants of the proposed
project as well as the neighboring properties;
      2.   The economic development of the area as a whole;
      3.   The traffic flow and development of the roadways pertaining to the
benefit of the proposed project and/or future developments of the area in
question.
      4.   The benefit of the city of Des Plaines. (Ord. M-48-07, 8-20-2007)
13-3-3: ADDITIONAL IMPROVEMENTS OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
The requirements of section
13-3-2 of this chapter shall also apply to new subdivisions lying outside of
but within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the city limits. (Ord. M-21-78, 7-
3-1978)
13-3-4: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS, APPROVAL BY ENGINEER:
All plans, specifications and contracts for public improvements required by
this title such as street paving, sidewalks, water systems and sewer systems
shall be approved by the director of engineering before the final plat is
approved by the planning and zoning board. (Ord. M-21-78, 7-3-1978; amd. Ord.
Z-29-15, 10-5-2015)
13-3-5: INSPECTION AT SUBDIVIDER'S EXPENSE:
All public improvements to be made under the provisions of this title shall be
inspected and approved during the course of construction by the city engineer.
The costs in connection with the inspection shall be paid by the subdivider.
(Ord. M-21-78, 7-3-1978)
CHAPTER 4
DEDICATION OF PARK LANDS OR PAYMENTS OF FEES IN LIEU OF
SECTION:
13-4-1: Findings And Purpose
13-4-2: Dedication Of Park Lands
13-4-3: Payments Of Fees In Lieu Of Dedication Of Park Lands
13-4-4: Density Formula For Calculation Of Land Dedication Or Fee In Lieu
13-4-5: Procedure For Making Dedications And Contributions
13-4-6: Distribution Of Cash Contributions To Park Districts
13-4-7: Severability
13-4-1: FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
   A.   It is declared to be the policy of the City of Des Plaines that the
provision of various public facilities required to serve new residential
developments is subject to the control of the City in accordance with the
Comprehensive Plan of the City for the orderly, planned, efficient, and
economical development of the City.
   B.   New residential developments cause and impose increased and excessive
demands upon public facilities and services that are specifically and uniquely
attributable to those new residential developments. Affected facilities and
services include park and recreational facilities within the City, which are
operated by both the Des Plaines Park District and the Mount Prospect Park
District.
   C.   Planning projections indicate that new residential development shall
continue and shall place ever-increasing demands on the park districts to
provide necessary public facilities.
   D.   Development potential and property values are influenced and affected
by City policy as expressed in the City's Comprehensive Plan and as implemented
by the City zoning ordinance and the actions of the park districts.
   E.   To the extent that new residential developments place demands upon park
and recreational facilities that are specifically and uniquely attributable to
such developments, those demands should be satisfied by requiring that the new
residential developments creating the demands pay the cost of meeting the
demands.
   F.   The City Council, after careful consideration, hereby finds and
declares that imposition of land dedication requirements upon new residential
developments, including both traditional subdivisions and residential planned
unit developments, to enhance specified public facilities, the demand for which
is created by such developments within the City, is in the best interests of
the general welfare of the City and its residents, is equitable, and does not
impose an unfair burden on such developments.
   G.   Therefore, the City Council deems it necessary and desirable to adopt
this chapter as herein set forth. (Ord. Z-34-16, 5-1-2017)
13-4-2: DEDICATION OF PARK LANDS:
As a condition of approval of a final plat of subdivision, or of a final plat
of a residential planned unit development, for any development resulting in the
construction of fifteen (15) or more dwelling units, each subdivider or
developer will be required to dedicate land for park and recreational purposes
to serve the immediate and future needs of the residents of the development, or
cash contribution in lieu of actual land dedication, or a combination of both,
based on the recommendation of the public body which will be the recipient of
the contribution, but subject to final determination of the City Council, in
accordance with the following criteria and formula:
   A.   Requirements And Population Ratio: The ultimate density of a proposed
development shall bear directly upon the amount of land required for
dedication. The total requirement shall be five and five-tenths (5.5) acres of
land per one thousand (1,000) of ultimate population generated by the
development. The required five and five-tenths (5.5) acres may be allocated by
the City Council, in its discretion, based upon the following criteria:
 
Types Of Recreation                       Service Area  Minimum Acres Per
Area                Size Range            (Approximate  1,000 People
                                          Distance)
Neighborhood        1,200 - 4,000 sq. ft. 0.5 mile      5.5 acres/1,000
playground          +/-
Open space          0.2 - 4.5 acres       0.5 mile      5.5 acres/1,000
Mini park           0.15 - 1.0 acre       0.5 mile      5.5 acres/1,000
Neighborhood park   0.5 - 5 acres         2 miles       5.5 acres/1,000
Community park      5.0 - 75 acres        Citywide      5.5 acres/1,000
 
The ultimate density of a proposed development shall be calculated in
accordance with subsection
13-4-4A of this chapter.
   B.   Service Area: Each type of recreation area is intended to serve the
properties located within its designated service area, as set forth in
subsection A of this section.
   C.   Location And Size: The City's Comprehensive Plan and/or standards
adopted by the park districts prioritizing location of facilities shall be used
as a guideline in locating sites. A central location which will serve equally
the entire development is most desirable. In large developments these sites can
be located throughout the development according to established standards for
park area distances. Dedicated park land should be located so that the proposed
development is within the dedicated park land's service area and should be of
an appropriate size and location for park and recreational purposes, as
determined by the City Council.
   D.   Topography And Grading: The slope, topography and geology of the
dedicated site as well as its surroundings must be suitable for its park and
recreational purposes. Grading on sites dedicated for park and recreational
uses shall not differ greatly from surrounding land.
   E.   Credit For Private Open Spaces And Recreation Areas: When subdividers
or developers provide their own open space for park and recreation areas and
facilities, it has the effect of reducing the demand for local public
recreational services. Depending on the size of the development a portion of
the park and recreational area in subdivisions or planned unit developments
may, at the option of the City Council, be provided in the form of "private"
open space in lieu of dedicated "public" open space. The extent of same shall
be determined by the City Council, based upon the needs of the projected
residents and in conformance to the total park and recreation land for the
general area.
In general, a substitution of private open space for dedicated parks will imply
a substantially higher degree of improvement and the installation of
recreational facilities, including equipment, by the subdivider or developer as
part of his obligation. Detailed plans of such areas, including specifications
of facilities to be installed, must be approved by the City, and before any
credit is given for private recreation areas, the subdivider or developer must
guarantee that these private recreation areas will be permanently maintained
for such use by the execution of the appropriate legal documents. When an
adjustment for private recreation areas is warranted, it will be necessary to
compute the total park land dedication that would have been required from the
subdivision or planned unit development and then subtract the credit to be
given.
   F.   Title To Sites: All sites shall be conveyed to the park district with
jurisdiction over the sites either by warranty or trustee's deed. The
subdivider or developer shall be responsible for conveying good, merchantable
title to such sites, and shall be responsible for payment of all real estate
taxes to the date of conveyance, including any agricultural rollback taxes
which might be extended or levied against such sites, for any tax years or
periods prior to the time of conveyance.
   G.   Reservation Of Additional Land: Where the Comprehensive Plan of the
City calls for a larger amount of park and recreational land in a particular
proposed subdivision or planned unit development than the subdivider or
developer is required to dedicate, the land needed beyond the subdivider's or
developer's contribution shall, if so determined by the City Council, be
reserved for subsequent purchase by the City or the park district with
jurisdiction provided that such acquisition is made within one (1) year from
the date of approval of the final plat.
   H.   Combining With Adjoining Developments: For all subdivisions and planned
unit developments, public open space or a school site which is to be dedicated
should, where possible, be combined with dedications from adjoining
developments in order to produce usable park and recreation areas without
hardship on a particular developer. (Ord. Z-34-16, 5-1-2017)
13-4-3: PAYMENTS OF FEES IN LIEU OF DEDICATION OF PARK LANDS:
   A.   Criteria For Requiring A Contribution In Lieu Of Park Sites: In the
event that the proposed subdivision or development is small and the resulting
required land dedication is too small to be practically useful to the park
district with jurisdiction, or in the event that the land available for
dedication is inappropriate or insufficient for park or recreational purposes,
then the City Council shall have the authority to require the subdivider or
developer to pay a cash contribution in lieu of or in combination with the land
dedication. The cash contributions in lieu of park and recreation land
dedication shall be held in trust by the City, or other public body designated
by the City, solely for the acquisition and construction of new park and
recreation land as hereinbefore classified, or for the expansion and
improvement of existing park and recreation land. The proposed development
shall be located within the service area of the park and recreation land for
which the cash contribution in lieu of land dedication is used.
Improvement under this section shall be liberally construed and shall include,
but shall not be limited to, the development of: parking lots; sidewalks;
traffic signals; arterial streets; collector streets; internal roadways;
connections with sewer, water and electrical lines; and streetlights;
playgrounds; recreation grounds; buildings and athletic fields. Improvement
shall also include excavation and site preparation, and the purchase of any
material, goods or equipment necessary to said development and construction.
The cash contributions in lieu of land dedication shall not be used for daily
park district operations or routine park maintenance.
   B.   Fair Market Value: The cash contributions in lieu of land shall be
based on the fair market value of the acres of land in the area improved as
specified herein, that otherwise would have been dedicated as park and
recreation. It has been determined that the present fair market value of such
improved land in and surrounding the City is, as of May 1, 2017, two hundred
thousand dollars ($200,000.00) per acre for park and recreation sites and such
figures shall be used in making any calculation herein unless the subdivider or
developer files a written objection thereto. The initial fair market value set
forth herein shall be adjusted annually by the year over year (January to
January) increase in the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for the Chicago/Gary/
Kenosha metropolitan area. It is recognized that fair market value of improved
land may change over the years, and the price set forth herein is subject to
periodic review and amendment by the City Council as necessary.
   C.   Objections: In the event a subdivider or developer files a written
objection to the fair market value per acre set forth in subsection B of this
section, the subdivider or developer shall submit an independent appraisal
showing the fair market value of such improved land in the area of the
development or other evidence thereof and final determination of said fair
market value per acre of such improved land shall be made by the City Council
based upon such information submitted by the subdivider or developer and from
other sources which may be submitted to the City Council by the park districts
or others.
   D.   Allocation Of Fees Between Park Districts: If the proposed development
is located so that it is within the service area of parks located in more than
one (1) park district, then any fees collected may be allocated to either park
district at the discretion of the City Council in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. Z-34-16, 5-1-2017)
13-4-4: DENSITY FORMULA FOR CALCULATION OF LAND DEDICATION OR FEE IN LIEU:
   A.   Density Table: The following table of population density represents
current and short-range project trends in family size for new construction and
shall be used in calculating the amount of required dedication of acres of land
for park and recreation sites or the cash contribution in lieu of unless a
written objection is led thereto by the subdivider or developer. A written
objection shall be submitted and processed in accordance with subsection B of
this section.
Type Of Unit Total Per Unit
Type Of Unit            Total Per Unit
Detached single family:  
 2 bedroom             2.017
 3 bedroom             2.899
 4 bedroom             3.764
 5 bedroom             3.77
Attached single family:  
 1 bedroom             1.193
 2 bedroom             1.99
 3 bedroom             2.392
 4 bedroom             3.145
Apartments:              
 Efficiency/studio     1.294
 1 bedroom             1.758
 2 bedroom             1.914
 3 bedroom             3.053
 
It is recognized that population density, age distribution and local conditions
change over the years, and the specific formula for the dedication of land, or
the payment of fees in lieu thereof, as stated herein, is subject to periodic
review and amendment as necessary.
   B.   Objection: In the event a subdivider or developer files a written
objection to the table of estimated ultimate population listed herein, the
subdivider or developer shall submit its own demographic study showing the
estimated population to be generated from the subdivision or planned unit
development, including a detailed explanation of the methodology used in
developing an alternative generation table. The objection shall be considered
as a request for a variation from the subdivision regulations and will be
processed in accordance with the procedures established under section
13-2-6 of this title. The demographic study shall be reviewed by the affected
park district which shall be authorized to submit a written statement of
acceptance or rejection of the objection to the City Council within twenty one
(21) days of the submittal of the objection to the City. Final determination of
the density formula to be used in such calculations shall be made by the City
Council based upon its review of the written comments submitted by the affected
park district in response to such objection. (Ord. Z-34-16, 5-1-2017)
13-4-5: PROCEDURE FOR MAKING DEDICATIONS AND CONTRIBUTIONS:
   A.   Land Dedications: Prior to the time of recording any plat or
development agreement, the park and recreation dedication, if in the form of
land, shall be made in accordance with subsection
13-4-2D of this chapter. For all developments other than planned unit
developments, the ultimate population shall be calculated on the basis of a mix
of bedrooms by dwelling unit type for each residential zoning district,
determined by the City on the basis of the current trends resulting from actual
permits issued in similar developments. For the purposes of estimating the land
dedication requirement in PUDs, the bedroom mix used for single- family
detached dwelling units shall be based upon the bedroom mix for that zoning
district which is most representative of the lot sizes approved, as established
by the City on the basis of current trends resulting from actual building
permits issued for such representative zoning district; and the bedroom mix
used for single-family attached and multi-family dwelling units shall be based
upon the number of units and mix of bedrooms as indicated on the approved final
PUD plat. Such contribution shall then be subject to cash adjustment upon
issuance of the final building permit in the platted area in accordance with
the following procedures: Upon the issuance of the final building permit within
the platted area, the City shall calculate the difference between the
contribution or deposit made and the actual contribution required, based upon
the actual building permits issued. The City shall then promptly invoice the
developer for the difference, in the case of a shortfall in the contribution,
and shall invoice the public body for the difference in the case of an overage.
The party being invoiced shall make payment to the City within thirty (30) days
of invoice.
   B.   Cash In Lieu Of Land Contributions: The amount of cash to be
contributed by the subdivider or developer in lieu of dedicating land for park
and recreation purposes shall be determined by applying the cash calculation
set forth in subsection
13-4-3B of this chapter at the time a building permit is issued for the
proposed development. Contributions of cash in lieu of land shall be made by
depositing, upon approval of the final plat or development agreement, an
estimated amount based upon the required cash in-lieu contribution resulting
from the following bedroom mixes:
      1.   For single-family detached dwellings, a three (3) bedroom mix
throughout the development.
      2.   For single-family attached and multiple-family dwellings other than
apartments, a two (2) bedroom mix except that the actual bedroom mix shall be
used for an approved PUD.
      3.   For apartments, the mix shall be based upon fifty percent (50%) of
the dwelling units being one (1) bedroom and fifty percent (50%) being two (2)
bedroom units, except that the actual bedroom mix shall be used for an approved
PUD.
   C.   Adjustment To Cash In-Lieu Contribution: Upon the issuance of a
building permit within the platted area for a residence having more or less
bedrooms than the number used to calculate the deposit under subsection
13-4-4A of this chapter, an adjustment in the cash in-lieu contribution based
upon the actual bedroom mix shall be made by an additional charge or refund.
(Ord. Z-34-16, 5-1-2017)
13-4-6: DISTRIBUTION OF CASH CONTRIBUTIONS TO PARK DISTRICTS:
The cash contributions in lieu of land, including interest earned thereon,
shall be held in trust by the City, for use in acquisition of land for park and
recreational purposes which will be available to serve the immediate or future
needs of the residents of that subdivision or development or for the
improvement of other existing park or recreational facilities which already
serves such needs. Moneys deposited with the City for the use and benefit of
the park districts with the provision of this chapter shall be paid to the park
district that has jurisdiction over the contributing subdivision or development
upon request, at the time a designation for the use of the funds is approved by
the City Council.
The City shall annually, at the end of its fiscal year, inform by mail the
applicable park district what amount is due to that district. Upon receiving
verification from each park district, the City shall proceed with payment of
the funds upon approval by the City Council as soon as practicable.
Prior to December 31 of each year, each park district receiving funds under
this chapter shall annually make a written report to the City detailing the
amount of funds received and how such funds were expended. (Ord. Z-34-16, 5-1-
2017)
13-4-7: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances is declared invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such
partial invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of this
chapter, which can be given effect without the invalid provision or application
thereof, and to this extent, the provisions of this chapter are declared to be
severable. (Ord. Z-34-16, 5-1-2017)
TITLE 14
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD CONTROL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
14-1-1: Purpose
14-1-2: Definitions
14-1-3: How To Use This Chapter
14-1-4: Duties Of Enforcement Officials
14-1-5: Base Flood Elevation
14-1-6: Occupation And Use Of Flood Fringe Areas
14-1-7: Occupation And Use Of Identified Floodways
14-1-8: Occupation And Use Of Special Flood Hazard Areas Where Floodways Are
Not Identified
14-1-9: Permitting Requirements Applicable To All Floodplain Areas And
Protection Of Buildings
14-1-10: Other Development Requirements
14-1-11: Variances
14-1-12: Disclaimer Of Liability
14-1-13: Penalty
14-1-14: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
14-1-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this city by
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8, and 5/
11-31-2 by the Illinois constitution for the public health, safety and welfare
of its citizens.
The purpose of this chapter is to maintain this city's eligibility in the
national flood insurance program; to minimize potential losses due to periodic
flooding including loss of life, loss of property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare;
and to preserve and enhance the quality of surface waters, conserve economic
and natural values and provide for the wise utilization of water and related
land resources. This chapter is adopted to accomplish the following specific
purposes:
   A.   To meet the requirements of 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/18g, the
rivers, lakes and streams act.
   B.   To assure that new development does not increase the flood or drainage
hazards to others, or create unstable conditions susceptible to erosion.
   C.   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage.
   D.   To protect human life and health from the hazards of flooding.
   E.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood damaged public facilities and utilities and flood rescue and
relief operations.
   F.   To make federally subsidized insurance available for property in the
city by fulfilling the requirements of the national flood insurance program.
   G.   To comply with the rules and regulations of the national flood
insurance program codified as 44 CFR 59 - 79, as amended.
   H.   To protect, conserve and promote the orderly development of land and
water resources.
   I.   To preserve the natural characteristics of watercourses and floodplains
in order to moderate flood and storm water impacts, improve water quality,
reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat, provide recreational
opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance community and economic
development. (Ord. M-15-16, 6-6-2016)
14-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions are adopted:
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A nonhabitable structure which is on the same parcel of
property as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure.
ACT: An act in relation to the regulation of the rivers, lakes and streams of
the state of Illinois, 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5 et seq.
APPLICANT: Any person, firm, corporation or agency which submits an
application.
APPROPRIATE USE: Only uses of the designated floodway are permissible and will
be considered for permit issuance. The only uses that will be allowed are as
specified in subsection
14-1-7B of this chapter.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year
frequency flood event. Application of the base flood elevation at any location
is defined in section
14-1-5 of this chapter.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation in relation to mean sea level of the
crest of the base flood.
BASEMENT: That portion of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BUILDING: A structure that is principally aboveground and is enclosed by walls
and a roof. This term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a manufactured
home, mobile home or a prefabricated building. This term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers to be installed on a site for more
than one hundred eighty (180) days.
CHANNEL: Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or artificial
depression, ponded area, flowage, slough, ditch, conduit, culvert, gully,
ravine, wash or natural or manmade drainageway, which has a definite bed and
banks or shoreline, in or into which surface or ground water flows, either
perennially or intermittently.
CHANNEL MODIFICATION: Alteration of a channel by changing the physical
dimensions or materials of its bed or banks. Channel modification includes
damming, riprapping (or other armoring), widening, deepening, straightening,
relocating, lining and significant removal of bottom or woody vegetation.
Channel modification does not include the clearing of dead or dying vegetation,
debris or trash from the channel. Channelization is a severe form of channel
modification typically involving relocation of the existing channel (e.g.,
straightening).
COMPENSATORY STORAGE: An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the SFHA used to balance the loss of natural flood
storage capacity when artificial fill or structures are placed within the
floodplain. The uncompensated loss of natural floodplain storage can increase
off site floodwater elevations and flows.
CONDITIONAL APPROVAL OF A DESIGNATED FLOODWAY MAP CHANGE: Preconstruction
approval by IDNR/OWR and FEMA of a proposed change to the floodway map. This
preconstruction approval, pursuant to this chapter, gives assurances to the
property owner that once an appropriate use is constructed according to
permitted plans, the floodway map can be changed, as previously agreed, upon
review and acceptance of as built plans.
CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR): A letter which indicates that FEMA
will revise base flood elevations, flood insurance rate zones, flood boundaries
or floodway as shown on an effective flood hazard boundary map or flood
insurance rate map, once the as built plans are submitted and approved.
CONTROL STRUCTURE: A structure designed to control the rate of flow that passes
through the structure, given a specific upstream and downstream water surface
elevation.
CRITICAL FACILITY: Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare of
the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital
services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can
put special populations at risk. Examples of critical facilities where flood
protection should be required include emergency services facilities (such as
fire and police stations), schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care
facilities, major roads and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone
switching stations or electrical transformers), and hazardous material storage
facilities (chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances). Examples
of critical facilities where flood protection is recommended include sewage
treatment plants, water treatment plants, and pumping stations.
DAM: All obstructions, wall embankments or barriers, together with their
abutments and appurtenant works, if any, constructed for the purpose of storing
or diverting water or creating a pool. Dams may also include weirs, restrictive
culverts or impoundment structures. Underground water storage tanks are not
included.
DESIGNATED FLOODWAY: The channel, including on stream lakes, and that portion
of the floodplain adjacent to a stream or watercourse, generally depicted on
the FEMA FIRM map, which is needed to store and convey the existing 100-year
frequency flood discharge with no more than a 0.1 foot increase in stage due to
the loss of flood conveyance or storage, and no more than a ten percent (10%)
increase in velocities.
   A.   The floodways are designated for on the countywide flood insurance rate
map of Cook County prepared by FEMA and dated August 19, 2008. When two (2)
floodway maps exist for a waterway, the more restrictive floodway limit shall
prevail.
   B.   The floodways for those parts of unincorporated Cook County that are
within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city of Des Plaines that may be
annexed into the city of Des Plaines are designated for the Des Plaines River,
Prairie Creek, Farmers Creek, Willow Creek, Weller Creek, and Feehanville Ditch
on the countywide flood insurance rate map prepared by FEMA and dated August
19, 2008.
   C.   To locate the designated floodway boundary on any site, the designated
floodway boundary should be scaled off the designated floodway map and located
on a site plan, using reference marks common to both maps. Where interpretation
is needed to determine the exact location of the designated floodway boundary,
IDNR/OWR should be contacted for the interpretation.
DETACHED SINGLE-FAMILY GARAGE AND SHED: A structure or structures used for the
storage of motor vehicles or other storage incidental to the principal use and
which is independent, freestanding and not structurally attached to the
principal structure.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real estate, including:
   A.   Construction, reconstruction, repair, or placement of a building or any
addition to a building;
   B.   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a
site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days. If the travel trailer or
recreational vehicle is on site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days, it
must be fully licensed and ready for highway use;
   C.   Drilling, mining, installing utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
or similar projects;
   D.   Demolition of a structure or redevelopment of a site;
   E.   Clearing of land as an adjunct of construction;
   F.   Construction or erection of levees, walls, fences, dams, or culverts;
channel modification; filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving, or other
nonagricultural alterations of the ground surface; storage of materials;
deposit of solid or liquid waste;
   G.   Any other activity of man that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface water, including extensive vegetation removal;
   H.   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
   I.   Development does not include routine maintenance of existing buildings
and facilities such as reroofing or resurfacing of roads or driveway
replacement when there is no increase in elevation, or gardening, plowing, and
similar agricultural practices that do not involve filling, grading, or
construction of levees.
ELEVATION CERTIFICATES: A form published by FEMA that is used to certify the
elevation to which a building has been elevated. Required with any development
within the 100-year floodplain that requires the issuance of a building permit
by the city or as directed by the director of public works and engineering.
EROSION: The general process whereby soils are moved by flowing water or wave
action.
EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS: Organizations which are exempt from this chapter per
Illinois Compiled Statutes including state, federal or local units of
government.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) has been completed before April 1,
1990.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEMA: Federal emergency management agency and its regulations at 44 CFR 59 -
79, as amended.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from overflow of inland or tidal waves, or the unusual
and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD FREQUENCY: A period of years, based on a statistical analysis, during
which a flood of a stated magnitude may be expected to be equaled or exceeded.
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): A map prepared by FEMA that depicts the
special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a community. This map includes
insurance rate zones and floodplains and may or may not depict floodways.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS): An examination, evaluation and determination of
flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The elevation of the base flood or 100-year
frequency floods plus two feet (2') of freeboard at any given location in the
SFHA.
FLOODPLAIN: That land typically adjacent to a body of water with ground surface
elevations at or below the base flood or the 100-year frequency flood
elevation. Floodplains may also include detached special flood hazard areas,
ponding areas, etc. The floodplain is also known as the special flood hazard
area (SFHA). The floodplains are those lands within the jurisdiction of the
city that are subject to inundation by the base flood or 100-year frequency
flood. The SFHAs of the city of Des Plaines are generally identified as such on
map 17031C panels 0208J, 0209J, 0212J, 0214J, 0216J, 0217J, 0218J, 0219J,
0236J, 0238J, 0356J, 0357J, 0376J dated August 19, 2008, respectively, of the
countywide flood insurance rate map for Cook County prepared by the federal
emergency management agency.
The SFHAs for those parts of unincorporated Cook County that are within the one
and one-half (11/2) mile extraterritorial jurisdiction of Des Plaines and may
be annexed into the city of Des Plaines are designated for Weller Creek, Des
Plaines River, Prairie Creek and Farmers Creek on map 17031C and panels 0207J,
0228J, 0229J dated August 19, 2008, respectively, of the countywide flood
insurance rate map for Cook County prepared by the federal emergency management
agency.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE: A form published by the federal emergency management
agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
FLOODWAY: See definition of Designated Floodway.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places or
preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the national register.
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily determined
by the secretary to qualify as a registered historic district.
   C.   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by the
Illinois historic preservation agency.
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that has
been certified by the Illinois historic preservation agency.
HYDRAULICALLY EQUIVALENT COMPENSATORY STORAGE: Compensatory storage that can be
shown by hydrologic and hydraulic analysis to offset the increase in flood
elevations caused by a development.
HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC CALCULATIONS: Engineering analysis, which determines
expected flood flows and flood elevations based on land characteristics and
rainfall events.
IDNR/OWR: Illinois department of natural resources, office of water resources.
LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENTS (LOMA): Official determination by FEMA that a specific
structure is not in a 100-year flood zone; amends the effective FIRM.
LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR): Letter that revises base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevations, flood insurance rate zones, flood boundaries or
floodways as shown on an effective FIRM.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable
nonelevation design requirements of this chapter.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designated for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" also includes park trailers, travel trailers and other
similar vehicles placed on site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days.
The term "manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MARKET VALUE: Current value of building only, as determined by an Illinois
licensed appraiser.
MITIGATION: Includes those measures necessary to minimize the negative effects
which floodplain development activities might have on the public health, safety
and welfare. Examples of mitigation include excavation of compensatory storage,
soil erosion, sedimentation control, and channel restoration. Mitigation may
also include those activities taken to reduce a structure's susceptibility to
flooding.
NAVD 88: National American vertical datum of 1988. NAVD 88 supersedes the
national geodetic vertical datum of 1929 (NGVD).
NATURAL: When used in reference to channels means those channels formed by the
existing surface topography of the earth prior to changes made by man. A
natural stream tends to follow a meandering path; its floodplain is not
constrained by levees; the area near the bank has not been cleared, mowed or
cultivated; the stream flows over soil and geologic materials typical of the
area with no substantial alteration of the course or cross section of the
stream caused by filling or excavating. A modified channel may regain some
natural characteristics over time as the channel meanders and vegetation is
reestablished. Similarly, a modified channel may be restored to more natural
conditions by man through regrading and revegetation.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the start of construction commenced on
or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
OWR: Illinois department of natural resources, office of water resources.
ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK (OHWM): The point on the bank or shore up to which the
presence and action of surface water is so continuous so as to leave a
distinctive mark such as by erosion, destruction or prevention of terrestrial
vegetation, predominance of aquatic vegetation or other easily recognized
characteristics.
PUBLIC BODIES OF WATERS: All open public streams and lakes capable of being
navigated by watercraft, in whole or in part, for commercial uses and purposes,
and all lakes, rivers, and streams which in their natural condition were
capable of being improved and made navigable, or that are connected with or
discharge their waters into navigable lakes or rivers within, or upon the
borders of the state of Illinois, together with all bayous, sloughs,
backwaters, and submerged lands that are open to the main channel or body of
water directly accessible thereto.
PUBLIC FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT: A flood control project, which will be operated
and maintained by a public agency to reduce flood damages to existing buildings
and structures, including a hydrologic and hydraulic study of the existing and
proposed conditions of the watershed. Nothing in this definition shall preclude
the design, engineering, construction or financing, in whole or in part, of a
flood control project by persons or parties who are not public agencies.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicle, which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis.
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection.
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck.
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REGIONAL PERMITS: Offered for preapproved projects, which are considered minor
projects that are permissible per IDNR/OWR part 3708 rules for northeastern
Illinois designated floodways. A complete listing of the terms and conditions
for specific project types can be obtained from the IDNR/OWR website.
REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR: A land surveyor registered in the state of Illinois,
under the Illinois land surveyors act.
REGISTERED OR LICENSED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER: An engineer registered in the
state of Illinois, under the Illinois professional engineering practice act.
REGULATORY FLOODWAY: See definition of Designated Floodway.
REPAIR, REMODELING OR MAINTENANCE: Developing activities which do not result in
any increases in the outside dimensions of a building or any changes to the
dimensions of a structure.
REPETITIVE LOSS: Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds twenty
five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
RETENTION/DETENTION FACILITY: A retention facility stores stormwater runoff
without a gravity release. A detention facility provides for storage of
stormwater runoff and controlled release of this runoff during and after a
flood or storm.
RIVERINE SFHA: Any SFHA subject to flooding from a river, creek, intermittent
stream, ditch, on stream lake system or any other identified channel. This term
does not include areas subject to flooding from lakes, ponding areas, areas of
sheet flow, or other areas not subject to overbank flooding.
RUNOFF: The water derived from melting snow or rain falling on the land
surface, flowing over the surface of the ground or collected in channels or
conduits.
SEDIMENTATION: The processes that deposit soils, debris, and other materials
either on other ground surfaces or in bodies of water or watercourses.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): See definition of Floodplain.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was
within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The "actual start"
means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
STATEWIDE PERMITS: Offered for preapproved projects that are considered minor
projects, which are permissible per the IDNR/OWR part 3700 rules. A complete
listing of the statewide permits and permit requirements can be obtained from
the IDNR/OWR website.
STRUCTURE: The results of a manmade change to the land constructed on or below
the ground, including the construction, reconstruction or placement of a
building or any addition to a building; installing a manufactured home on a
site; preparing a site for a manufactured home or installing a travel trailer
on a site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cumulative percentage of damage incurred during a ten (10) year period measured
from the date of the most recent damage, and dating back to no earlier than
January 1, 2009 (the effective date of this title), equals or exceeds fifty
percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred,
regardless of actual value of the repair work performed. The value of volunteer
labor, donated materials, and other in-kind contributions, must be included in
the calculation of substantial damage. This term includes repetitive loss
buildings. (See definition of Repetitive Loss.)
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
or improvement of a structure taking place during a ten (10) year period
measured from the date of the most recent damage, and dating back to no earlier
than January 1, 2009 (the effective date of this title), in which the
cumulative percentage of improvements equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of
the market value of the structure before the improvement or repair is conducted
or installed. The value of volunteer labor, donated materials, and other in-
kind contributions, must be included in the calculation of substantial
improvement.
   A.   "Substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building. This term includes structures, which have incurred
repetitive loss or substantial damage, regardless of the actual work done.
   B.   "Substantial improvement" does not, however, include any project for
improvement of a structure to comply with existing federal, state, or local
health, sanitary, or safety code specifications that are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions.
TRANSITION SECTION: Reaches of the stream or floodway where water flows from a
narrow cross section to a wide cross section or vice versa.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance is presumed to be in violation until such time
as that documentation is provided. (Ord. M-15-16, 6-6-2016)
14-1-3: HOW TO USE THIS CHAPTER:
The director of engineering and community development director shall be
responsible for fulfilling all of the duties listed in section
14-1-4 of this chapter.
To fulfill those duties, the director of engineering and community development
director first should use the criteria listed in section
14-1-5 of this chapter, to determine whether the development site is located
within a floodplain. Once it has been determined that a site is located within
a floodplain, the director of engineering and community development director
must determine whether the development site is within a flood fringe, a
designated floodway, or within an SFHA or floodplain on which no floodway has
been identified. If the site is within a floodway, the director of engineering
and community development director shall require that the minimum requirements
of section
14-1-7 of this chapter be met. If the site is located within an SFHA or
floodplain for which no detailed study has been completed and approved, the
director of engineering and community development director shall require that
the minimum requirements of section
14-1-8 of this chapter be met. If the site is within a flood fringe, the
director of engineering and community development director shall require that
the minimum requirements of section
14-1-6 of this chapter be met.
In addition, the general requirements of section
14-1-9 of this chapter shall be met for all developments meeting the
requirements of section
14-1-6, 14-1-7 or 14-1-8 of this chapter. The director of engineering and
community development director shall assure that all subdivision proposals
shall meet the requirements of section
14-1-10 of this chapter.
If a variance is to be granted for a proposal, the director of engineering and
community development director shall review the requirements of section
14-1-11 of this chapter to make sure they are met. In addition, the director of
engineering and community development director shall complete all notification
requirements.
In order to assure that property owners obtain permits as required in this
chapter, the director of engineering and community development director may
take any and all actions as outlined in section
14-1-13 of this chapter. (Ord. M-15-16, 6-6-2016)
14-1-4: DUTIES OF ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
The director of engineering shall be responsible for the general administration
and enforcement of this chapter, which shall include the following:
   A.   Determining The Floodplain Designation: Check all new development sites
to determine whether they are in a special flood hazard area (SFHA). If they
are in an SFHA, determine whether they are in a floodway, flood fringe or in a
floodplain on which a detailed study has not been conducted which drains more
than one square mile.
      1.   Check whether the development is potentially within an extended SFHA
(with a drainage area less than 1 square mile), indicating that the development
would have adverse impacts regarding storage, conveyance, or inundation which
would be the basis for the applicant being required to delineate the floodplain
and floodway and be subject to the remaining sections of this chapter.
   B.   Professional Engineer Review: If the development site is within a
floodway or in a floodplain on which a detailed study has not been conducted
which drains more than one square mile, then the permit shall be referred to a
registered professional engineer (PE) under the employ or contract of the city
for review to ensure that the development meets the requirements of section
14-1-7 of this chapter. In the case of an appropriate use, the PE shall state
in writing that the developer's engineer will provide a detailed hydrologic and
hydraulic analysis in conjunction with a detailed plan of the drainage basin
and subbasins considered for any development site being submitted to the
director of engineering for review.
   C.   Dam Safety Requirements:
      1.   Dams are classified as to their size and their hazard/damage
potential in the event of failure.
      2.   The construction or major modification of all class I (high hazard)
and class II (moderate hazard) dams require an IDNR/OWR dam safety permit.
      3.   Some class III (low hazard) dams require an IDNR/OWR dam safety
permit, depending on the drainage area to the dam, the height of the dam and
the impounding capacity behind the dam. Most off channel detention basins that
have an embankment are nonjurisdictional class III dams. It is not required
that IDNR/OWR "sign off" on all nonjurisdictional class III dams.
      4.   A consulting engineer with dam safety knowledge can estimate a
hazard classification and determine if an IDNR/OWR dam safety permit is
required.
      5.   A permit application submittal must be made to IDNR/OWR for the
construction or major modification of jurisdictional dams.
      6.   Regulated dams may include weirs, restrictive culverts or
impoundment structures.
   D.   Other Permit Requirements: Ensure any and all required federal, state
and local permits are received prior to the issuance of a floodplain
development permit.
   E.   Plan Review And Permit Issuance: Ensure that all development activities
within the SFHAs of the jurisdiction of the city of Des Plaines meet the
requirements of this chapter, and issue a floodplain development permit in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter and other regulations of this
community when the development meets the conditions of this chapter.
   F.   Inspection Review: Inspect all development projects before, during, and
after construction to assure proper elevation of the structure and to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this chapter; and schedule on an annual basis
an inspection of the floodplain and document the results of the inspection.
   G.   Elevation And Floodproofing Certificates: Maintain in the permit files
an elevation certificate certifying the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of a residential or nonresidential building or the
elevation to which a nonresidential building has been subject to section
14-1-9 of this chapter for public inspection and provide copies of same.
   H.   Records For Public Inspection: Maintain for public inspection and
furnish upon request base flood data, SFHA and regulatory floodway maps, copies
of federal or state permit documents, variance documentation, conditional
letter of map revision, letter of map revision, letter of map amendment and as
built elevation and floodproofing or elevation and floodproofing certificates
for all buildings constructed subject to this chapter.
   I.   State Permits: Ensure that construction authorization has been granted
by the Illinois department of natural resources, office of water resources
(IDNR/OWR), for all development projects subject to sections
14-1-7 and 14-1-8 of this chapter, unless enforcement responsibility has been
delegated to the city. Upon acceptance of this chapter by IDNR/OWR and FEMA,
responsibility is hereby delegated to the city as per 17 Illinois
administrative code 3708 for construction in the designated floodway and
floodplain when floodways have not been defined in sections
14-1-7 and 14-1-8 of this chapter. However, the following review approvals are
not delegated to the city and shall require review or permits from IDNR/OWR:
      1.   Organizations which are exempt from this chapter, as per the
Illinois Compiled Statutes;
      2.   IDNR/OWR projects, dams or impoundment structures as defined in
section
14-1-2 of this chapter and all other state, federal or local unit of government
projects, including projects of the city and county, except for those projects
meeting the requirements of subsection
14-1-7B5 of this chapter;
      3.   An engineer's determination that an existing bridge or culvert
crossing is not a source of flood damage and the analysis indicating the
proposed flood profile, per subsection
14-1-7B2e of this chapter;
      4.   An engineer's analysis of the flood profile due to subsection
14-1-7B2d of this chapter;
      5.   Alternative transition sections and hydraulically equivalent
compensatory storage as indicated in subsections
14-1-7B2a, B2b and B2h of this chapter;
      6.   Permit issuance of structures within or over publicly navigable
rivers, lakes and streams;
      7.   Any changes in the base flood elevation or floodway locations; and
      8.   Base flood elevation determinations where none now exist.
   J.   Cooperation With Other Agencies: Cooperate with state and federal
floodplain management agencies to improve the administration of this chapter.
Submit data to OWR and the federal emergency management agency for proposed
revisions of a designated map within six (6) months whenever a modification to
the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in a change to the
FIRM. Submit reports as required for the national flood insurance program.
Notify the federal emergency management agency of any proposed amendments to
this chapter.
   K.   Promulgate Regulations: Promulgate rules and regulations as necessary
to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter, subject however to
the review and approval of OWR and FEMA for any chapter changes.
   L.   Damage Determinations: Make damage determinations of all damaged
buildings in the SFHA after any damage to determine if any structures have been
substantially damaged. Any structures found to be substantially damaged must
comply with section
14-1-9 of this chapter. (Ord. M-15-16, 6-6-2016)
14-1-5: BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:
This chapter's protection standard is based on August 19, 2008, Cook County FIS
prepared by FEMA.
If a base flood elevation or 100-year frequency flood elevation is not
available for a particular site, then the protection standard shall be
according to the best existing data available in the Illinois state water
survey's floodplain information repository or from federal, state, or other
sources.
When a party disagrees with the best available data, they shall submit a
detailed engineering study needed to replace existing data with better data and
submit it to IDNR/OWR and FEMA for review and consideration prior to any
development of the site.
   A.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for the SFHAs of
the Des Plaines River, Prairie Creek, Farmers Creek, Willow Creek, Weller
Creek, Higgins Creek, and Feehanville Ditch shall be as delineated on the 100-
year flood profiles in the countywide flood insurance study of Cook County
prepared by FEMA dated August 19, 2008, and such amendments to such study and
maps as may be prepared from time to time.
   B.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for the SFHAs of
those parts of unincorporated Cook County that are within the one and one-half
(11/2) mile extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city of Des Plaines or that
may be annexed into the city of Des Plaines shall be as delineated on the 100-
year flood profiles in the countywide flood insurance study of Cook County
prepared by FEMA and dated August 19, 2008, and such amendments or revisions to
such study and maps may be prepared from time to time.
   C.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for each SFHA
delineated as an AH zone or an AO zone shall be that elevation (or depth)
delineated on the flood insurance rate map of the city.
   D.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for each of the
remaining SFHAs delineated as an A zone on the flood insurance rate map of the
city shall be according to the best existing data available in the Illinois
state water survey's floodplain information repository. The 100-year frequency
flood event is that event which has a one percent (1%) statistical chance of
occurring in any given year. When no base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevation data is available for a riverine SFHA, the 100-year frequency
elevation shall be determined using hydrologic and hydraulic calculations as
appropriate for the analysis circumstance that have been approved by FEMA or
those models commonly used in this geographic area such as HEC-RAS, HEC-HMS,
SWMM, TR-20, and Hydroflow. Flood flows should be based on anticipated future
land use conditions in the watershed as determined from adopted local and
regional land use plans. Along any watercourses draining more than one square
mile, the above analyses shall be submitted to OWR for approval, once approved
it must be submitted to the Illinois state water survey floodplain information
repository for filing. For a nonriverine SFHA, the base flood elevation shall
be the historic flood of record plus three feet (3'), unless calculated by a
detailed engineering study and approved by the Illinois state water survey.
   E.   Prior to issuing a development permit the community development
director or his designee shall determine the location of the subject property
with respect to flood zones using the best information available. (Ord. M-15-
16, 6-6-2016)
14-1-6: OCCUPATION AND USE OF FLOOD FRINGE AREAS:
Development in and/or filling of the flood fringe will be permitted if
protection is provided against the base flood or 100-year frequency flood by
proper elevation, and compensatory storage and other provisions of this chapter
are met. No use will be permitted which adversely affects the capacity of
drainage facilities or systems, including the temporary storage of materials
for more than seven (7) calendar days. Developments located within the flood
fringe shall meet the requirements of this section, along with the requirements
of section
14-1-9 of this chapter.
   A.   Development Permit: No person, firm, corporation or governmental body
not exempted by state law shall commence any development in the SFHA without
first obtaining a development permit from the community development director
and director of engineering.
      1.   Application for a development permit shall be made on a form
provided by the community development director and director of engineering. The
application shall be accompanied by drawings of the site, drawn to scale,
showing property line dimensions and legal description for the property and
sealed by a licensed engineer, or land surveyor; existing grade elevations in
1988 NAVD and all changes in grade resulting from excavation or filling; the
location and dimensions of all buildings, the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) and lowest adjacent grade shall be shown on the submitted
plans and the development will be subject to the requirements of section
14-1-9 of this chapter.
      2.   Upon receipt of a development permit application, the director of
engineering shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood or 100-
year frequency flood elevation. Any development located on land that is higher
than the base flood elevation as determined pursuant to section
14-1-5 of this chapter is not in the SFHA and, therefore, not subject to the
requirements of this chapter. The building official shall maintain
documentation of the existing ground elevation at the development site and
certification that this ground elevation existed prior to the date of the
site's current effective FIRM.
      3.   A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan for disturbed areas
shall be submitted. This plan, including all calculations, shall include a
description of the sequence of grading activities and the temporary sediment
and erosion control measures to be implemented to mitigate their effects. This
plan shall also include a description of final stabilization and revegetation
measures, and the identification of a responsible party to ensure
postconstruction maintenance.
      4.   The community development director shall be responsible for
obtaining from the applicant copies of all other local, state and federal
permits, approvals or permit not required letters that may be required for this
type of activity. The community development director shall not issue a permit
unless all other local, state and federal permits have been obtained.
   B.   Preventing Increased Damages: No development in the flood fringe shall
create a threat to public health and safety.
      1.   Remove Site From Floodplain: If fill is being used to elevate the
site above the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation, the applicant
shall submit sufficient data and obtain a letter of map revision (LOMR) from
FEMA for the purpose of removing the site from the floodplain.
      2.   Compensatory Storage: Whenever any portion of a floodplain is
authorized for use, the volume of space which will be occupied by the
authorized fill or structure below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevation shall be compensated for and balanced by a hydraulically equivalent
volume or excavation taken from below the base flood or 100-year frequency
flood elevation. The excavation volume shall be at least equal to one and one-
tenth (1.1) times the volume of storage lost due to the fill or structure. In
the case of streams and watercourses, such excavation shall be made in a
hydraulically equivalent area to the areas so filled or occupied. All
floodplain storage lost below the existing 10-year flood elevation shall be
replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All floodplain storage
lost above the existing 10-year flood elevation shall be replaced above the
proposed 10-year flood elevation and under the 100-year elevation. All such
excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and openly to the watercourse.
      3.   Construction Of The Lowest Floor Below The Base Flood Elevation
(BFE): A person who has obtained a letter of map revision based on fill (LOMR-
F) that removes a site in the flood fringe from the floodplain due to the use
of fill to elevate the site above the BFE, may apply for a permit from the city
of Des Plaines to construct the lowest floor of a residential building below
the BFE in the flood fringe. The building official shall not issue such a
permit unless the applicant has complied with all the criteria set forth in the
following subsections:
      a.   Compensatory storage shall be provided.
      b.   The elevation of the lowest opening in the basement wall (i.e.,
window wells, accessways) shall be at two feet zero inches (2'0") above the
base flood elevation (BFE).
      c.   The lowest adjacent grade to the foundation shall be at or above the
FPE, for a minimum distance of ten feet (10') beyond the outside face of the
structure. However, if site conditions are such that this requirement cannot be
met, the building official may waive the ten foot (10') minimum setback if an
Illinois licensed professional engineer certifies that an alternative method to
protect the building from damage due to hydrostatic pressures has been met. The
certifications shall be in the form of a detailed soils and structural design
analysis, which shall be submitted to the building official for review. The
building official may require such additional documentation as necessary to
prove that the proposed shorter setback distance will keep the structure
reasonably safe. In no case shall the setback distance be less than four feet
(4').
      d.   The grade around the perimeter of the structure, measured at a
distance of twenty feet (20') from the structure, shall be above the BFE.
However, if site conditions are such that this requirement cannot be obtained,
the building official may waive the twenty foot (20') minimum setback distance
if an Illinois licensed professional engineer certifies that an alternative
method to protect the building from damages due to hydrostatic pressures has
been met. A detailed soils analysis and structural design proving that a
shorter setback distance will keep the structure reasonably safe from flooding,
shall be submitted to the city of Des Plaines for review. In no case shall the
setback distance be less than four feet (4').
      e.   The ground around the building shall be compacted fill that meets
all requirements of this subsection and is at least five feet (5') thick under
the basement floor slab. Nothing in this subsection shall be interpreted to
require the removal or replacement of fill that was placed as part of an LOMR-
F, if such fill consists of material, including soils of similar classification
and degree permeability, such as those classified as CH, CL, SC or ML according
to ASTM standard D-2487, "Classification Of Soils For Engineering Purposes".
      f.   The fill material must be homogeneous and isotropic; that is, the
soil must be all of one material, and the engineering priorities must be in the
same direction.
      g.   All fill material and compaction shall be designed, certified and
inspected by an Illinois licensed professional engineer, as warranted by the
site conditions.
      h.   The basement floor shall be at an elevation that is no more than
five feet (5') below the BFE.
      i. There shall be a granular drainage layer beneath the floor slab, and
minimum of one-fourth (1/4) horsepower sump pump with a backup power supply
shall be provided to remove seepage flow. The pump shall be rated at four (4)
times the estimated seepage rate and shall discharge above the BFE and away
from the building in order to prevent flooding of the basement or uplift of the
floor under the effect of the seepage pressure.
      j.   The drainage system shall be equipped with a positive means of
preventing backflow.
      k.   All foundation elements shall be designed to withstand hydrostatic
pressure in accordance with accepted engineering practices.
      l.   If the applicant is unable to meet all of the requirements set forth
in the preceding subsections of this section, the building official may allow
the construction of a basement below the BFE only if the applicant demonstrates
that the proposed fill and structure meet the guidelines and requirements set
forth in FEMA technical bulletin 10-01 and are reasonably safe from flooding.
In order to demonstrate that the proposed structure is reasonably safe from
flooding, the applicant shall submit a detailed engineering analysis of the
proposed fill and foundation wall. The engineered basement study shall be
completed in accordance with the latest edition of FEMA technical bulletin 10-
01, with the analysis of the fill being prepared by an Illinois licensed
professional engineer.
      m.   In no case shall the depth of excavation in the front and side yards
of the lot exceed eighteen inches (18"), as measured from the previously
existing natural grade. The rear yard shall be permitted to have a greater
depth of excavation, if necessary. All such excavation shall be constructed to
drain freely and openly to the watercourse or storm sewer system. The use of
mechanical means to drain the compensatory storage area will not be permitted.
   Elevation certificates will be required for all development within the 100-
year floodplain that requires the issuance of a building permit by the city, or
as directed by the director of public works and engineering.
   C.   Repair, Modification, Reconstruction: For repair of damaged homes,
modification of existing homes, or reconstruction/replacement of existing
homes, see subsections
14-1-9C1b and C2b of this chapter. (Ord. M-15-16, 6-6-2016)
14-1-7: OCCUPATION AND USE OF IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS:
This section explains the procedures which are to be followed to determine if a
site is within a floodway and sets the minimum requirements for all development
within a floodway.
This section applies to proposed development, redevelopment, site modification
or building modification within a designated floodway. The designated floodway
for the Des Plaines River, Prairie Creek, Farmers Creek, Willow Creek, Weller
Creek, and Feehanville Ditch shall be as delineated on designated FEMA flood
insurance rate maps referenced in section
14-1-2 of this chapter. Only those uses and structures will be permitted which
meet the criteria in this section. All floodway modifications shall be the
minimum necessary to accomplish the purpose of the project. The development
shall also meet the requirements of section
14-1-9 of this chapter.
   A.   Development Permit: No person, firm, corporation or governmental body
not exempted by state law shall commence any development in a floodway without
first obtaining a development permit from the community development director
with approval from the director of engineering.
Development in the floodway will be limited to existing developments
(redevelopment) on a limited basis or as deemed as necessary by the director of
engineering, and shall be limited to appropriate uses of the floodway.
      1.   Application for a development permit shall be made on a form
provided by the community development director. The application shall include
the following information:
         a.   Name and address of applicant.
         b.   Site location (including legal description) of the property,
drawn to scale of one inch equals twenty feet (1"=20') with the limits of the
regulatory floodway delineated, indicating whether it is proposed to be in an
incorporated or unincorporated area.
         c.   Name of stream or body of water affected.
         d.   Description of proposed activity.
         e.   Statement of purpose of proposed activity.
         f.   Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity.
         g.   Name and mailing address of the owner of the subject property if
different from the applicant.
         h.   Signature of applicant or the applicant's agent.
         i.   If the applicant is a corporation, the president or other
authorized officer shall sign the application form.
         j.   If the applicant is a partnership, each partner shall sign the
application form.
         k.   If the applicant is a land trust, the trust officer shall sign
the name of the trustee by him/her as trust officer. A disclosure affidavit
shall be filed with the application identifying each beneficiary of the trust
by name and address and defining the respective interests therein.
         l.   Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided which include as
a minimum:
            (1)    A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of the
waterway, boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of the site, graphical
or numerical scale of one inch equals twenty feet (1" = 20') and north arrow.
            (2)    A plan review of the project and engineering study reach
showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
structure or work, elevations using the 1988 NAVD, adjacent property lines and
ownership, existing and proposed grades (spot elevations), existing and
proposed elevation contours, drainage and flood control easements, location of
any channels and any existing or future access roads, distance between proposed
activity and navigation channel (when the proposed construction is near a
commercially navigable body of water), designated floodway limit, floodplain
limit, specifications and dimensions of any proposed channel modifications,
delineation of basin and subbasin areas, location and orientation of cross
sections, north arrow, and a graphical or numerical scale.
            (3)    Cross section views of the project and engineering study
reach showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions
of the work as shown in plan view, existing and proposed elevations, normal
water elevation, 10-year frequency flood elevation, 100-year frequency flood
elevation, and graphical or numerical scales (horizontal and vertical).
            (4)    A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan for disturbed
areas, including outfalls. This plan shall include a description of the
sequence of grading activities and the temporary sediment and erosion control
measures to be implemented to mitigate their effects. This plan shall also
include a description of final stabilization and revegetation measures, and the
identification of a responsible party to ensure postconstruction maintenance.
            (5)    A copy of the designated floodway map, marked to reflect any
proposed change in the regulatory floodway location.
         m.   Any and all other local, state and federal permits or approval
letters that may be required for this type of development.
         n.   Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be submitted
for hydrologic and hydraulic analysis as well as all sediment control and
erosion protection measures showing that the proposed work will meet the permit
criteria of subsection B of this section.
         o.   If the designated floodway delineation, base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation will change due to the proposed project, the
application will not be considered complete until IDNR/OWR has indicated
conditional approval of the designated floodway map change. No structures may
be built until a letter of map revision has been approved by FEMA.
         p.   The application for a structure shall be accompanied by drawings
of the site, drawn to scale, showing property line dimensions and existing
ground elevations and all changes in grade resulting from any proposed
excavation or filling, and floodplain and floodway limits; sealed by a
registered professional engineer, or registered land surveyor; the location and
dimensions of all buildings and additions to buildings; and the elevation of
the lowest floor (including basement) of all proposed buildings subject to the
requirements of section
14-1-9 of this chapter.
         q.   If the proposed project involves a channel modification, the
applicant shall submit the following information:
            (1)    A discussion of the purpose and need for the proposed work.
            (2)    A discussion of the feasibility of using alternative
locations or methods to accomplish the purpose of the proposed work.
            (3)    An analysis of the extent and permanence of the impacts the
project would have on the physical and biological conditions of the body of
water affected.
            (4)    An analysis of the extent and permanence of the impacts each
feasible alternative identified in subsections B1d and B1i of this section
would have on the physical and biological conditions of the body of water
affected.
            (5)    An analysis of the impacts of the proposed project
considering cumulative effects on the physical and biological conditions of the
body of water affected.
      2.   The director of engineering shall be responsible for obtaining from
the applicant copies of all other local, state and federal permits and
approvals that may be required for this type of activity. The community
development director shall not issue the development permit unless all required
federal and state permits have been obtained. A registered professional
engineer, under the employ or contract of the city, shall review and approve
applications reviewed under this section.
   B.   Preventing Increased Damages And A List Of Appropriate Uses: The only
developments in a floodway which will be allowed are appropriate uses, which
will not cause a rise in the base flood elevation, and which will not create a
damaging or potentially damaging increase in flood heights or velocity or be a
threat to public health and safety and welfare or impair the natural hydrologic
and hydraulic functions of the floodway or channel, or permanently impair
existing water quality or aquatic habitat. Construction impacts shall be
minimized by appropriate mitigation methods as called for in this chapter. Only
those appropriate uses listed in 17 Illinois administrative code 3708 will be
allowed. Appropriate uses do not include the construction or placement of any
new structures, fill, building additions, buildings on stilts, excavation or
channel modifications constructed to accommodate otherwise misappropriate uses
in the floodway, fencing (including landscaping or planting designed to act as
a fence) and storage of materials except as specifically defined above as an
appropriate use.
      1.   Appropriate Uses: The approved appropriate uses are as follows:
         a.   Flood control structures, dikes, dams and other public works or
private improvements relating to the control of drainage, flooding, erosion or
water quality or habitat for fish and wildlife.
         b.   Structures or facilities relating to the use of, or requiring
access to, the water or shoreline, such as pumping and treatment facilities,
and facilities and improvements related to recreational boating, commercial
shipping and other functionally water dependent uses.
         c.   Storm and sanitary sewer outfalls.
         d.   Underground and overhead utilities.
         e.   Recreational facilities such as playing fields and trail systems
including any related fencing (at least 50 percent open when viewed from any 1
direction) built parallel to the direction of flood flows and including open
air pavilions. Replacement fences that do not result in greater obstructions to
flood flows are permitted.
         f.   Bridges, culverts, roadways, sidewalks, railways, runways and
taxiways and any modification thereto.
         g.   Parking lots and any modifications thereto (where depth of
flooding at the 100-year frequency flood event will not exceed 1.0 foot) and
aircraft parking aprons built at or below ground elevation.
=         h.   Designated floodway regrading, without fill, to create a
positive nonerosive slope toward a watercourse.
         i.   Floodproofing activities to protect previously existing lawful
structures including the construction of watertight window wells, elevating
structures, or construction of floodwalls around residential, commercial or
industrial principal structures where the outside toe of the floodwall shall be
no more than ten feet (10') away from the exterior wall of the existing
structure, and which are not considered substantial improvements to the
structure.
         j.   The replacement, reconstruction, or repair of a damaged building,
provided that the outside dimensions are not increased; provided, however, that
if the building qualifies as substantially damaged, the building must be
protected from flooding to the flood protection elevation.
         k.   Modifications to an existing building that would not increase the
enclosed floor area of the building below the 100-year frequency flood
elevation, and which will not block flood flows. Fireplaces, bay windows,
decks, patios, and second story additions are permitted. If the modification
constitutes a substantial improvement, the building must be protected to the
flood protection elevation.
         l.   Elevation certificates will be required for all work within the
100-year floodplain that would require the issuance of a building permit by the
city or as directed by the director of public works and engineering.
      2.   Construction Engineering And Mitigation Criteria: Within the
designated floodway as identified on the designated floodway maps designated by
OWR, the construction of an appropriate use will be considered permissible;
provided, that the proposed project meets the following engineering and
mitigation criteria and is so stated in writing with supporting plans,
calculations and data by a registered professional engineer, and provided that
any structure meets the protection requirements of section
14-1-9 of this chapter.
         a.   Preservation Of Flood Conveyance, So As Not To Increase Flood
Stages Upstream: For appropriate uses other than bridge or culvert crossings,
on stream structures or dams, all effective regulatory floodway conveyance lost
due to the project will be replaced for all flood events up to and including
the 100-year frequency flood. In calculating effective designated floodway
conveyance, the following factors shall be taken into consideration:
            (1)    Regulatory floodway conveyance,
 
"K" = 1.486 AR 2/3
    n
 
Where "n" is Manning's roughness factor, "A" is the effective area of the cross
section, and "R" is the ratio of the area to the wetted perimeter. (See "Open
Channel Hydraulics", Ven Te Chow, 1959, McGraw-Hill Book Company, New York.)
            (2)    The same Manning's "n" value shall be used for both existing
and proposed conditions unless a recorded maintenance agreement with a federal,
state or local unit of government can assure the proposed conditions will be
maintained or the land cover is changing from a vegetative to a nonvegetative
land cover.
            (3)    Transition sections shall be provided and used in
calculations of effective regulatory floodway conveyance. The following
expansion and contraction ratios shall be used unless an applicant's engineer
can prove to OWR through engineering calculation or model tests that more
abrupt transitions may be used with the same efficiency:
               (A)   When water is flowing from a narrow section to a wider
section, the water should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate of one
foot (1') horizontal for every four feet (4') of the flooded stream's length.
               (B)   When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow
section, the water should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of
one foot (1') horizontal for every one foot (1') of the flooded stream's
length.
               (C)   When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical
direction, a minimum of one foot (1') vertical transition for every ten feet
(10') of stream length shall be used.
               (D)   Transition sections shall be provided between cross
sections with rapid expansions and contractions and when meeting the regulatory
floodway delineation on adjacent properties.
               (E)   All cross sections used in the calculations shall be
located perpendicular to flood flows.
         b.   Preservation Of Floodway Storage So As Not To Increase Downstream
Flooding: Compensatory storage shall be provided for any designated floodway
storage lost due to the proposed work from the volume of fill or structures
placed and the impact of any related flood control projects. Compensatory
storage for fill or structures shall be equal to at least one and one-tenth
(1.1) times the volume of floodplain storage lost. Artificially created storage
lost due to a reduction in head loss behind a bridge shall not be required to
be replaced. The compensatory designated floodway storage shall be placed
between the proposed normal water elevation and the proposed 100-year flood
elevation. All designated floodway storage lost below the existing 10-year
flood elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation
and all regulatory storage lost above the existing 10-year flood elevation
shall be replaced above the 10-year flood elevation and below the 100-year
elevation. All such excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and openly
to the watercourse. If the compensatory storage will not be placed at the
location of the proposed construction, the applicant's engineer shall
demonstrate to OWR through a determination of flood discharges and water
surface elevations that the compensatory storage is hydraulically equivalent.
Finally, there shall be no reduction in floodway surface area as a result of a
floodway modification.
         c.   Preservation Of Floodway Velocities So As Not To Increase Stream
Erosion Or Flood Heights: For all appropriate uses, except bridges or culverts
or on stream structures, the proposed work will result in no more than a ten
percent (10%) increase in velocities or stage for all flood events up to and
including the 100-year frequency event. However, in the case of bridges or
culverts or on stream structures built for the purpose of backing up water in
the stream during normal or flood flows, velocities may be increased at the
structure site if scour, erosion and sedimentation will be avoided by the use
of riprap or other design measures.
Any increase in stage associated with construction in the floodway is contrary
to city policy, unless the increase in stage is associated with a necessary
public flood control project and there is no increase in off site flood
damages.
         d.   Construction Of New Bridges Or Culvert Crossings And Roadway
Approaches: The proposed structure shall not result in an increase of upstream
flood stages greater than one-tenth foot (0.1') when compared to the existing
vertical extensions of the channel banks such as within the design protection
grade of existing levees or floodwalls or within recorded flood easements. If
the proposed construction will increase upstream flood stages greater than one-
tenth foot (0.1'), the developer must contact OWR, dam safety section for a dam
safety permit or waiver. Any increase in stage associated with construction in
the floodway is contrary to city policy, unless the increase in stage is
associated with a necessary public flood control project and there is no
increase in off site flood damages.
            (1)    The engineering analysis of upstream flood stages must be
calculated using the flood study flows, and corresponding flood elevations for
tail water conditions for the flood study specified in section
14-1-5 of this chapter. Culverts must be analyzed using the HY-8 or other
hydraulic calculations approved by the director of public works and engineering
for the selection of highway culverts. Bridges must be analyzed using the IDOT
drainage manual.
            (2)    Lost floodway storage must be compensated for per subsection
B2b of this section.
            (3)    Velocity increases must be mitigated per subsection B2c of
this section.
            (4)    If the crossing is proposed over public water that is used
for recreational or commercial navigation, an army corps of engineers and IDNR/
OWR permit must be received.
            (5)    The hydraulic analysis for the backwater caused by the
bridge showing the existing condition and proposed regulatory profile must be
submitted to OWR for concurrence that a CLOMR is not required by subsection
14-1-8B of this chapter.
            (6)    All excavations for the construction of the crossing shall
be designed per subsection B2h of this section.
         e.   Reconstruction Or Modification Of Existing Bridges, Culverts And
Approach Roads:
            (1)    The bridge or culvert and roadway approach reconstruction or
modification shall be constructed with no more than one-tenth foot (0.1')
increase in backwater over the existing flood profile for all flood frequencies
up to and including the 100-year event, if the existing structure is not a
source of flood damage.
            (2)    If the existing bridge or culvert and roadway approach is a
source of flood damage to buildings or structures in the upstream floodplain,
the applicant's engineer shall evaluate the feasibility of redesigning the
structure to reduce the existing backwater, taking into consideration the
effects on flood stages on upstream and downstream properties.
            (3)    The determination as to whether or not the existing crossing
is a source of flood damage and should be redesigned must be prepared in
accordance with the IDNR/OWR 17 Illinois administrative code 3708 (floodway
construction in northeastern Illinois) and submitted to the division for review
and concurrence before a permit is issued.
         f.   On Stream Structures Built For The Purpose Of Backing Up Water:
Any increase in upstream flood stages greater than zero feet (0.0') when
compared to the existing conditions, for all flood events up to and including
the 100-year frequency event shall be contained within the channel banks (or
within existing vertical extensions of the channel banks) such as within the
design protection grade of existing levees or floodwalls or within recorded
flood easements. A permit or letter indicating a permit is not required must be
obtained from OWR, dam safety section for a dam safety permit or waiver for any
structure built for the purpose of backing up water in the stream during normal
or flood flow. All dams and impoundment structures as defined in section
14-1-2 of this chapter shall meet the permitting requirements of 17 Illinois
administrative code 3702 (construction and maintenance of dams). If the
proposed activity involves a modification of the channel or floodway to
accommodate an impoundment, it shall be demonstrated that:
            (1)    The impoundment is determined to be in the public interest
by providing flood control, public recreation or regional stormwater detention.
            (2)    The impoundment will not prevent the migration of indigenous
fish species, which require access to upstream areas as part of their life
cycle, such as for spawning.
            (3)    The impoundment will not cause or contribute to degraded
water quality of habitat conditions. Impoundment design should include gradual
bank slopes, appropriate bank stabilization measures, and a presedimentation
basin.
            (4)    A nonpoint source control plan has been implemented in the
upstream watershed to control the effects of sediment runoff as well as
minimize the input of nutrients, oil and grease, metals and other pollutants.
If there is more than one municipality in the upstream watershed, the
municipality in which the impoundment is constructed should coordinate with
upstream municipalities to ensure comprehensive watershed control.
            (5)    Will require the approval of the director of engineering.
            (6)    The project otherwise complies with the requirements of this
section.
         g.   Floodproofing Of Existing Habitable, Residential And Commercial
Structures: If construction is required beyond the outside dimensions of the
existing building, the outside perimeter of the floodproofing construction
shall be placed no farther than ten feet (10') away from the outside of the
building. Compensation of lost storage and conveyance will not be required for
floodproofing activities.
         h.   Excavation In The Floodway: When excavation is proposed in the
design of bridges and culvert openings, including the modifications to and
replacement of existing bridge and culvert structures, or to compensate for
lost conveyance for other appropriate uses, transition sections shall be
provided for the excavation. The following expansion and contraction ratios
shall be used unless an applicant's engineer can prove to OWR through
engineering calculations or model tests that more abrupt transitions may be
used with the same efficiency:
            (1)    When water is flowing from a narrow section to a wider
section, the water should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate of one
foot (1') horizontal for every four feet (4') of the flooded stream's length;
            (2)    When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow
section, the water should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of
one foot (1') horizontal for every one foot (1') of the flooded stream's
length; and
            (3)    When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical direction,
a minimum of one foot (1') vertical transition for every ten feet (10') of
stream length shall be used;
            (4)    Erosion/scour protection shall be provided inland upstream
and downstream of the transition sections.
         i.   Channel Modifications: If the proposed activity involves a
channel modification, it shall be demonstrated that:
            (1)    There are no practicable alternatives to the activity, which
would accomplish its purpose with less impact to the natural conditions of the
body of water affected. Possible alternatives include levees, bank
stabilization, floodproofing of existing structures, removal of structures from
the floodplain, clearing the channel, high flow channel or the establishment of
a streamside buffer strip or greenbelt. Channel modification is acceptable if
the purpose is to restore natural conditions and improve water quality and fish
and wildlife habitat.
Channel modifications are particularly sensitive activities because of their
potential direct impacts on channel stability, conveyance, water quality,
habitat and aesthetics. In general, watercourse modifications should be avoided
unless necessary to achieve the purposes of an appropriate use, such as habitat
restoration or a public flood control project. Rigorous enforcement of
mitigation requirements for necessary modifications can eliminate some of the
temporary and most of the permanent impacts of modification;
            (2)    Water quality, habitat and other natural functions would be
significantly improved by the modification and no significant habitat area may
be destroyed, or the impacts are offset by the replacement of an equivalent
degree of natural resource values;
            (3)    The activity has been planned and designed and will be
constructed in a way which will minimize its adverse impacts on the natural
conditions of the body of water affected, consistent with the following
criteria:
               (A)   The physical characteristics of the modified channel shall
match as closely as possible those of the existing channel in length, cross
section, slope and sinuosity. If the existing channel has been previously
modified, restoration of more natural physical conditions should be
incorporated into channel modification design, where practical.
               (B)   Hydraulically effective transitions shall be provided at
both the upstream and downstream ends of the project, designed such that they
will prevent erosion.
               (C)   Clearing of vegetation shall be limited to that which is
essential for construction of the channel.
               (D)   Channel banks shall be constructed with a side slope no
steeper than three to one (3:1) horizontal to vertical, wherever practicable.
Natural vegetation and gradual side slopes are the preferred methods for bank
stabilization. Where high velocities or sharp bends necessitate the use of
alternative stabilization measures, natural rock or riprap are preferred
materials. Artificial materials such as concrete, gabions, or construction
rubble should be avoided unless there are no practicable alternatives.
               (E)   All disturbed areas associated with the modification shall
be seeded or otherwise stabilized as soon as possible upon completion of
construction. Erosion blanket or an equivalent material shall be required to
stabilize disturbed channel banks prior to establishment of the vegetative
cover.
               (F)   If the existing channel contains considerable bottom
diversity such as deep pools, riffles and other similar features, such features
shall be provided in the new channel. Spawning and nesting areas and flow
characteristics compatible with fish habitat shall also be established, where
appropriate.
               (G)   A sediment basin and other erosion protection devices
shall be installed at the downstream end of the modification to reduce
sedimentation and degradation of downstream water quality.
               (H)   New or relocated channels should be built in the dry and
all items of construction, including vegetation, should be completed prior to
diversion of water into the new channel.
               (I)   There shall be no increases in stage or velocity as the
channel enters or leaves the project site for any frequency flood unless
necessitated by a public flood control project or unless such an increase is
justified as part of a habitat improvement or erosion control project.
               (J)   Unless the modification is for a public flood control
project, there shall be no reduction in the volume of floodwater storage
outside the floodway as a result of the modification.
            (4)    The project otherwise complies with the requirements of this
section.
         j.   Seeding And Stabilization Plan: For all activities located in a
floodway, a seeding and stabilization plan shall be submitted by the applicant.
         k.   Soil Erosion And Sedimentation Measures: For all activities in
the floodway, including grading, filling and excavation, in which there is
potential for erosion of exposed soil, soil erosion and sedimentation control
measures shall be employed consistent with the following criteria:
            (1)    The construction area shall be minimized to preserve the
maximum vegetation possible. Construction shall be scheduled to minimize the
time soil is exposed and unprotected. In no case shall the existing natural
vegetation be destroyed, removed or disturbed more than fifteen (15) days prior
to the initiation of improvements.
            (2)    Temporary and/or permanent soil stabilization shall be
applied to denuded areas as soon as possible. As a minimum, soil stabilization
shall be provided within fifteen (15) days after final grade is reached on any
portion of the site, and within fifteen (15) days to denuded areas, which may
not be at final grade but will remain undisturbed for longer than sixty (60)
days.
A schedule outlining the method and employment of sediment and erosion
protection methods prior to, during and after all construction, must be
submitted to the director of engineering.
            (3)    Sedimentation control measures shall be installed before any
significant grading or filling is initiated on the site to prevent the movement
of eroded sediments off site or into the channel. Potential sediment control
devices include filter fences, straw bale fences, check dams, diversion ditches
and sediment basins.
            (4)    A vegetated buffer strip of at least twenty five feet (25')
in width shall be preserved and/or reestablished, where possible, along
existing channels (subsection B2p of this section). Construction vehicle use of
channels shall be minimized. Temporary stream crossings shall be constructed,
where necessary, to minimize erosion. Necessary construction in or along
channels shall be restabilized immediately.
            (5)    Soil erosion and sedimentation control measures shall be
designed and implemented consistent with "Procedures And Standards For Urban
Soil Erosion And Sedimentation Control In Illinois" (1988) also known as the
"Green Book" and "Standards And Specifications For Soil Erosion And Sediment
Control" (IEPA, 1987).
         l.   Public Flood Control Projects: For public flood control projects,
the permitting requirements of this section will be considered met if the
applicant can demonstrate to OWR through hydraulic and hydrologic calculations
that the proposed project will not singularly or cumulatively result in
increased flood heights outside the project right of way or easements for all
flood events up to and including the 100-year frequency event.
         m.   General Criteria For Analysis Of Flood Elevations:
            (1)    The flood profiles, flows and floodway data in the
regulatory floodway study, referenced in section
14-1-5 of this chapter must be used for analysis of the base conditions. If the
study data appears to be in error or conditions have changed, OWR shall be
contacted for approval and concurrence on the appropriate base conditions data
to use.
            (2)    If the 100-year designated floodway elevation at the site of
the proposed construction is affected by backwater from a downstream receiving
stream with a larger drainage area, the proposed construction shall be shown to
meet the requirements of this section for the 100-year frequency flood
elevations of the designated floodway conditions and conditions with the
receiving stream at normal water elevations.
            (3)    If the applicant learns from OWR, local governments or a
private owner that a downstream restrictive bridge or culvert is scheduled to
be removed, reconstructed, modified, or a regional flood control project is
scheduled to be built, removed, constructed or modified within the next five
(5) years, the proposed construction shall be analyzed and shown to meet the
requirements of this section for both the existing conditions and the expected
flood profile conditions when the bridge, culvert or flood control project is
built.
         n.   Conditional Letter Of Map Revision: If the appropriate use would
result in a change in the designated floodway location or the 100-year
frequency flood elevation, the applicant shall submit to OWR and to FEMA all
the information, calculations and documents necessary to be issued a
conditional designated floodway map revision and receive from OWR a conditional
approval of the regulatory floodway change before a permit is issued. However,
the final designated floodway map will not be changed by OWR until as built
plans or record drawings are submitted and accepted by FEMA and OWR. In the
case of nongovernment projects, the municipality in incorporated areas and the
county in unincorporated areas shall concur with the proposed conditional
designated floodway map revision before OWR approval can be given. No filling,
grading, dredging or excavating shall take place until a final letter of map
revision (LOMR) is issued by FEMA and OWR.
         o.   Professional Engineer's Supervision: All engineering analyses
shall be performed by or under the supervision of a registered professional
engineer.
         p.   Protection From Construction: For all activities in the floodway
involving construction within twenty five feet (25') of the channel, the
following criteria shall be met:
            (1)    A natural vegetation buffer strip shall be preserved within
at least twenty five feet (25') of the ordinary high water mark of the channel.
            (2)    Where it is impossible to protect this buffer strip during
the construction of an appropriate use, a vegetated buffer strip shall be
established upon completion of construction.
            (3)    The use of native riparian vegetation is preferred in the
buffer strip. Access through this buffer strip shall be provided, when
necessary, for stream maintenance purposes.
After receipt of conditional approval of the designated floodway change and
issuance of a permit and a conditional letter of map revision, construction as
necessary to change the designated floodway may proceed but no buildings or
structures or other construction that is not an appropriate use may be placed
in that area until the designated floodway map is changed and a final letter of
map revision is received. The designated floodway map will be revised upon
acceptance and concurrence by OWR and FEMA of the as built plans.
      3.   State Review: For those projects listed below located in a
designated floodway, the following criteria shall be submitted to OWR for their
review and concurrence prior to the issuance of a permit:
         a.   OWR will review an engineer's analysis of the flood profile due
to a proposed bridge pursuant to subsection B2d of this section.
         b.   OWR will review an engineer's determination that an existing
bridge or culvert crossing is not a source of flood damage and the analysis
indicating the proposed flood profile, pursuant to subsection B2e of this
section.
         c.   The OWR will review alternative transition sections and
hydraulically equivalent storage pursuant to subsections B2a, B2b and B2h of
this section.
         d.   The OWR will review and approve, prior to the start of
construction, any department projects, dams (as defined in this chapter) and
all other state, federal or local units of government projects, including
projects of the municipality or county.
      4.   Other Permits: In addition to the other requirements of this
chapter, a development permit for a site located in a floodway shall not be
issued unless the applicant first obtains a permit or written documentation
that a permit is not required from OWR and the army corps of engineers, issued
pursuant to 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5. No permit from OWR shall be
required if the division has delegated this responsibility to the city.
      5.   Dam Safety Permits: Any work involving the construction,
modification or removal of a "dam" as defined in section
14-1-2 of this chapter per 17 Illinois administrative code 3702 (rules for
construction of dams) shall obtain an Illinois division of water resources dam
safety permit prior to the start of construction of a dam. If the director of
engineering finds a dam that does not have an OWR permit, the director of
engineering shall immediately notify the dam safety section of the division of
water resources. If the director of engineering finds a dam, which is believed
to be in an unsafe condition, the director of engineering shall immediately
notify the owner of the dam, OWR, dam safety section in Springfield and the
Illinois emergency management agency (IEMA).
      6.   Activities That Do Not Require A Registered Professional Engineer's
Review: The following activities may be permitted without a registered
professional engineer's review. Such activities shall still meet the other
requirements of this chapter, including the mitigation requirements.
         a.   Underground and overhead utilities that:
            (1)    Do not result in any increase in existing ground elevations,
or
            (2)    Do not require the placement of aboveground structures in
the floodway, or
            (3)    In the case of underground stream crossings, the top of the
pipe or encasement is buried a minimum of three feet (3') below the existing
streambed, and
            (4)    In the case of overhead utilities, supporting towers are
placed in the watercourse and are designed in such a fashion as not to catch
debris.
         b.   Storm and combined sewer outfalls that:
            (1)    Do not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent
natural bank slope, and
            (2)    Do not result in an increase in ground elevation, and
            (3)    Are designed so as not to cause stream erosion at the
outfall location.
         c.   Construction of sidewalks, athletic fields (excluding fences),
properly anchored playground equipment and patios at grade.
         d.   Construction of shoreline and stream bank protection that:
            (1)    Does not exceed one thousand feet (1,000') in length.
            (2)    Materials are not placed higher than the existing top of
bank.
            (3)    Materials are placed so as not to reduce the cross sectional
area of the stream channel or bank of the lake.
            (4)    Vegetative stabilization and gradual side slopes are the
preferred mitigation methods for existing erosion problems. Where high channel
velocities, sharp bends or wave action necessitate the use of alternative
stabilization measures, natural rock or riprap are preferred materials.
Artificial materials such as concrete, construction rubble and gabions should
be avoided unless there are no practicable alternatives.
            (5)    Use of artificial shoreline and stream bank materials for
the convenience of site design for private developments is not supported.
Construction activities involving one thousand feet (1,000') of shoreline or
stream bank are not minor and should be subject to the review of a registered
professional engineer.
         e.   Temporary stream crossings in which:
            (1)    The approach roads will be five-tenths foot (0.5') or less
above natural grade.
            (2)    The crossing will allow stream flow to pass without backing
up the water above the stream bank vegetation line or above any drainage tile
or outfall invert.
            (3)    The top of the roadway fill in the channel will be at least
two feet (2') below the top of the lowest bank. Any fill in the channel shall
be nonerosive material, such as riprap or gravel.
            (4)    All disturbed stream banks will be seeded or otherwise
stabilized as soon as possible upon installation and again upon removal of
construction.
            (5)    The access road and temporary crossing will be removed
within one year after authorization. (Ord. M-15-16, 6-6-2016)
14-1-8: OCCUPATION AND USE OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS WHERE FLOODWAYS ARE
NOT IDENTIFIED:
In SFHAs or floodplains, where no floodways have been identified and no base
flood or 100-year frequency flood elevations have been established by FEMA or
the OWR, and draining more than a square mile, no development shall be
permitted unless the cumulative effect of the proposals, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated uses and structures, shall not significantly
impede or increase the flow and passage of the floodwaters nor significantly
increase the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation.
   A.   Development Permit: No person, firm, corporation or governmental body,
not exempted by state law, shall commence any development in an SFHA or
floodplain without first obtaining a development permit from the director of
engineering and community development director. Application for a development
permit shall be made on a form provided by the director of engineering and
community development director. The application shall be accompanied by
drawings of the site, drawn to scale, showing property line dimensions; and
existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from excavation or
filling, sealed by a licensed engineer or surveyor; the location and dimensions
of all buildings and additions to buildings; and the elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) of all proposed buildings subject to the
requirements of section
14-1-9 of this chapter.
      1.   The application for a development permit shall also include the
following information:
         a.   A detailed description of the proposed activity, its purpose and
intended use.
         b.   Site location (including legal description) of the property,
drawn to scale, on the designated floodway maps, indicating whether it is
proposed to be in an incorporated or unincorporated area.
         c.   Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity.
         d.   Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided which include as
a minimum:
            (1)    A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of the
waterway, boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of the site, graphical
or numerical scale, and north arrow;
            (2)    A plan view of the project and engineering study reach
showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
structure or work, elevations in 1988 NAVD, adjacent property lines and
ownership, drainage and flood control easements, distance between proposed
activity and navigation channel (when the proposed construction is near a
commercially navigable body of water), floodplain limit, location and
orientation of cross sections, north arrow, and a graphical or numerical scale;
            (3)    If the required plans include a delineation of the floodway
for both existing and proposed conditions. This floodway delineation, made by
the applicant, should be consistent with the requirements of section
14-1-5 of this chapter and the definition of the "designated floodway" in
section
14-1-2 of this chapter. Floodplain and floodway delineations should be based on
ultimate future watershed land use conditions. This delineation should be
verified and approved by the office of water resources;
            (4)    Cross section views of the project and engineering study
reach showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions
of the work as shown in plan view, existing and proposed elevations, normal
water elevation, 10-year frequency flood elevation, 100-year frequency flood
elevation and graphical or numerical scales (horizontal and vertical); and
            (5)    A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan for disturbed
areas. This plan shall include a description of the sequence of grading
activities and the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be
implemented to mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a
description of final stabilization and revegetation measures, and the
identification of a responsible party to ensure postconstruction maintenance.
         e.   Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be submitted
showing that the proposed work will meet the criteria of subsection B of this
section.
         f.   Any and all other local, state and federal permits or approvals
that may be required for this type of development.
      2.   Based on the best available existing data according to the Illinois
state water survey's floodplain information repository, the director of
engineering shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood or 100-
year frequency flood elevation. Should no elevation information exist for the
site, the developer's engineer shall calculate the elevation according to
subsection
14-1-5D of this chapter. Any development located on land that is higher than
the base flood elevation as determined pursuant to section
14-1-5 of this chapter is not in the SFHA and, therefore, not subject to the
requirements of this chapter. The community development director shall maintain
documentation of the existing ground elevation at the development site and
certification that its ground elevation is higher than the base flood
elevation.
      3.   The director of engineering and community development director shall
be responsible for obtaining from the applicant copies of all other local,
state and federal permits, approvals or permit not required letters that may be
required for this type of activity. The director of engineering and community
development director shall not issue the development permit unless all required
local, state and federal permits have been obtained.
   B.   Preventing Increased Damages: No development in the SFHA, where a
floodway has not been determined, shall create a damaging or potentially
damaging increase in flood heights or velocity or threat to public health,
safety and welfare or impair the natural hydrologic and hydraulic functions of
the floodway or channel, or impair existing water quality or aquatic habitat.
Construction impacts shall be minimized by appropriate mitigation methods as
called for in this chapter.
      1.   Interim Floodway: Within all SFHAs where a designated floodway has
not been defined, it is recommended that an interim floodway be defined by the
applicant for purposes of this chapter. This interim floodway would be subject
to the appropriate use, engineering and mitigation requirements of section
14-1-7 of this chapter. A suggested interim floodway determination approach was
discussed in the commentary to this section. As a minimum, all channels within
the SFHA should be considered floodways for purposes of this chapter and the
following standards shall apply:
         a.   The developer shall have a registered professional engineer state
in writing and shown through supporting plans, calculations and data that the
project meets the engineering requirements of subsections
14-1-7B2a through B2l of this chapter for the entire floodplain as calculated
under the provisions of subsection
14-1-5D of this chapter. As an alternative, the developer should have an
engineering study performed to determine a floodway and submit that engineering
study to OWR for acceptance as a designated floodway. Upon acceptance of their
floodway by the OWR, the developer shall then demonstrate that the project
meets the requirements of section
14-1-7 of this chapter for the designated floodway. The "floodway" shall be
defined according to the definition in section
14-1-2 of this chapter.
         b.   A development permit shall not be issued unless the applicant
first obtains a permit from OWR or written documentation that a permit is not
required from OWR.
         c.   No permit from OWR shall be required if the office has delegated
permit responsibility to the city per 17 Illinois administrative code 3708 for
regulatory floodways, per OWR's statewide permit entitled "construction in
floodplains with no designated floodways in northeastern Illinois".
         d.   Any work involving the construction, modification or removal of a
"dam" or an on stream structure to impound water as defined in section
14-1-2 of this chapter shall obtain an Illinois office of water resources dam
safety permit or letter indicating a permit is not required prior to the start
of construction of a dam. If the director of engineering finds a dam that does
not have an OWR permit, the director of engineering shall immediately notify
the dam safety section of the office of water resources. If the director of
engineering finds a dam, which is believed to be in unsafe condition, the
director of engineering shall immediately notify the owner of the dam and the
Illinois emergency management agency (IEMA) and the OWR dam safety section in
Springfield.
         e.   The following activities may be permitted without a registered
professional engineer's review or calculation of a base flood elevation and
regulatory floodway. Such activities shall still meet the other requirements of
this chapter:
            (1)    Underground and overhead utilities that:
               (A)   Do not result in any increase in existing ground
elevations, or
               (B)   Do not require the placement of aboveground structures in
the floodway, or
               (C)   In the case of underground stream crossings, the top of
the pipe or encasement is buried a minimum of three feet (3') below the
existing streambed, and
               (D)   In the case of overhead utilities, no supporting towers
are placed in the watercourse and are designed in such a fashion as not to
catch debris;
            (2)    Storm and combined sewer outfalls that:
               (A)   Do not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing
adjacent natural bank slope, and
               (B)   Do not result in an increase in ground elevation, and
               (C)   Are designed so as not to cause stream bank erosion at the
outfall location;
            (3)    Construction of shoreline and streambed protection that:
               (A)   Does not exceed one thousand feet (1,000') in length or
two (2) cubic yards per linear foot of streambed.
               (B)   Materials are not placed higher than the existing top of
bank.
               (C)   Materials are placed so as not to reduce the cross
sectional area of the stream channel by more than ten percent (10%).
               (D)   Vegetative stabilization and gradual side slopes are the
preferred mitigation methods for existing erosion problems. Where high channel
velocities, sharp bends or wave action necessitate the use of alternative
stabilization measures, natural rock or riprap are preferred materials.
Artificial materials such as concrete, construction rubble and gabions should
be avoided unless there are no practicable alternatives.
Use of artificial shoreline and stream bank materials for the convenience of
site design for private developments is not supported. Construction activities
involving one thousand feet (1,000') of shoreline or stream bank are not minor
and should be subject to the review of a registered professional engineer. The
city recommends there be no reduction in the cross sectional area of the
channel;
            (4)    Temporary stream crossings in which:
               (A)   The approach roads will be 0.5 foot (1/2 foot) or less
above natural grade.
               (B)   The crossing will allow stream flow to pass without
backing up the water above the stream bank vegetation line or above any
drainage tile or outfall invert.
               (C)   The top of the roadway fill in the channel will be at
least two feet (2') below the top of the lowest bank. Any fill in the channel
shall be nonerosive material, such as riprap or gravel.
               (D)   All disturbed stream banks will be seeded or otherwise
stabilized as soon as possible upon installation and again upon removal of
construction.
               (E)   The access road and temporary crossings will be removed
within one year after authorization;
            (5)    The construction of light poles, signposts and similar
structures, unless the structure is cantilevered which then requires the review
and approval of a registered professional engineer;
            (6)    The construction of sidewalks, driveways, athletic fields
(excluding fences), patios and similar surfaces which are built at grade;
            (7)    The construction of properly anchored, unwalled, open
structures such as playground equipment, pavilions and carports built at or
below existing grade that would not obstruct the flow of floodwaters;
            (8)    The construction of additions to existing buildings which do
not increase the first floor area by more than twenty percent (20%), which are
located on the upstream or downstream side of the existing building, which do
extend beyond the sides of the existing building that are parallel to the flow
of floodwaters.
         f.   The flood carrying capacity within any altered or relocated
watercourse shall be maintained.
      2.   Compensatory Storage: Whenever any portion of a floodplain is
authorized for use, the volume of space which will be occupied by the
authorized fill or structure below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevation shall be compensated for and balanced by a hydraulically equivalent
volume of excavation taken from below the base flood for 100-year frequency
flood elevation. The excavation volume shall be at least equal to one and one-
tenth (1.1) times the volume of storage lost due to the fill or structure. In
the case of streams and watercourses, such excavation shall be made opposite or
adjacent to the areas so filled or occupied. All floodplain storage lost below
the existing 10-year flood elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-
year flood elevation. All floodplain storage lost above the existing 10-year
flood elevation shall be replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation
and below the 100-year elevation. All such excavations shall be constructed to
drain freely and openly to the watercourse. (Ord. M-15-16, 6-6-2016)
14-1-9: PERMITTING REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO ALL FLOODPLAIN AREAS AND
PROTECTION OF BUILDINGS:
In addition to the requirements found in sections
14-1-6,
14-1-7 and
14-1-8 of this chapter for development in flood fringes, designated floodways
and SFHA or floodplains where no floodways have been identified (zones A, AO,
AH, AE, A1-A30, A99, VO, V1-30, VE, V, M or E), the following requirements
shall be met:
   A.   Public Health Standards:
      1.   No developments in the SFHA shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, animal wastes, fertilizers, flammable
liquids, pollutants, or other hazardous or toxic materials below the FPE, or
anywhere within this floodway, floodplain or flood fringe.
      2.   New and replacement water supply systems, wells, sanitary sewer
lines and on site waste disposal systems may be permitted, providing all
manholes or other aboveground openings located below the FPE are watertight.
The city does not support wells, new sanitary sewer lines (except interceptor
sewers) or on site waste disposal systems in the floodway.
   B.   Carrying Capacity And Notification: For all projects involving channel
modification, fill or stream maintenance (including levees), the flood carrying
capacity of the watercourse shall be maintained. In addition, the city shall
notify adjacent communities in writing thirty (30) days prior to the issuance
of a permit for the alteration or relocation of the watercourse.
   C.   Protecting Buildings: All buildings located within a 100-year
floodplain, also known as an SFHA, shall be protected from flood damage below
the flood protection elevation. This building protection criteria applies to
the following situations:
Improvements, structural alterations including replacements or reconstructions
made to an existing building that increase the floor area by more than twenty
percent (20%) or substantial improvements to existing structures. In these
cases, the existing structure and the addition must meet the flood protection
standards of this section, which includes, but is not limited to, elevating the
finished floor at two feet (2') above the BFE;
Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. If a building is determined
to be substantially damaged, the entire structure must meet the flood
protection standards of this section, which includes, but is not limited to,
elevating the finished floor two feet (2') above the BFE;
Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured home on an
existing site. This building protection requirement does not apply to returning
a mobile home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed to
avoid flood damage;
Installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one hundred eighty (180)
days; and
"Repetitive loss" to an existing building as defined in section
14-1-2 of this chapter. This building protection requirement may be met by one
of the following methods:
      1.   A residential or nonresidential building, when allowed, may be
constructed on permanent landfill in accordance with the following:
         a.   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at two feet (2')
above the base flood elevation.
         b.   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot (1')
deep before compaction and should extend at least ten feet (10') beyond the
foundation of the building before sloping below the flood protection elevation.
The top of the fill shall be above the flood protection elevation. However, the
ten foot (10') minimum may be waived if a structural engineer certifies an
alternative method to protect the building from damages due to hydrostatic
pressures. The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour. The fill
shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or onto
neighboring properties.
      2.   A residential or nonresidential building may be elevated in
accordance with the following:
         a.   The building or improvement shall be elevated on crawl space,
stilts, piles, walls or other foundation that is permanently open to
floodwaters and not subject to damage by hydrostatic pressures of the base
flood or 100-year frequency flood. The permanent openings shall be no more than
one foot (1') above grade, and consist of a minimum of two (2) openings. The
openings must have a total net area of not less than one square inch for every
one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base flood
elevation.
         b.   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored and
aligned in relation to flood flows and adjoining structures so as to minimize
exposure to known hydrodynamic forces such as current, waves, ice and floating
debris.
         c.   All areas below the flood protection elevation shall be
constructed of materials resistant to flood damage. The lowest floor (including
basement) and all electrical, heating, ventilating, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment, utility meters, and other service facilities (including
ductwork) shall be located or waterproofed to the flood protection elevation.
Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines, submersible pumps and
other waterproofed service facilities may be located below the flood protection
elevation.
         d.   No area below the flood protection elevation shall be used for
storage of items or materials.
         e.   When the building wall encloses open space that is below the base
flood elevation, gravity, storm and sanitary sewer connections are specifically
prohibited and overhead sewers are required for the sanitary connections and
sumps for the storm sewer connection.
         f.   Manufactured homes and travel trailers, to be installed on a site
for more than one hundred eighty (180) days, shall be elevated to or above the
flood protection elevation; and shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse
or lateral movement by being tied down in accordance with the rules and
regulations for the Illinois mobile home tiedown act issued pursuant to 77
Illinois administrative code 870.
      3.   Only an existing nonresidential building may be structurally dry
floodproofed (in lieu of elevation); provided, that a registered professional
engineer shall certify that the building has been structurally dry floodproofed
below the flood protection elevation, the structure and attendant utility
facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the base
flood or 100-year frequency flood. The building design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces,
the effects of buoyancy and impacts from debris or ice. Floodproofing measures
shall be operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity (levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this subsection).
      4.   A building may be constructed with a crawl space located below the
flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met:
         a.   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy; and
         b.   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall have
openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot (1') above grade; and
         c.   The interior grade of the crawl space below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent
exterior grade; and
         d.   The interior height of the crawl space measured from the interior
grade of the crawl space to the top of the foundation wall must not exceed four
feet (4') at any point; and
         e.   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawl space within a reasonable
period of time after a flood event; and
         f.   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; and
         g.   Utility systems within the crawl space must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
      5.   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
floodproofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation or three feet (3') above
the level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation whichever is greater.
Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all critical facilities.
   D.   Inspection: In order to make a damage determination, the director of
public works and engineering, or his designee, shall have the authority to
conduct an internal inspection of all buildings located within the SFHA that,
based on external observation, have been contacted by floodwaters at the
foundation level or above within the past one hundred eighty (180) days. The
purpose of this inspection will be to:
      1.   Determine whether damage has occurred to the building as a result of
flooding which will require permitted repair work to be conducted and whether
the damage qualifies as substantially damaged as defined in this title; and
      2.   Inform the owner/occupant of the damaged building of the city's
flood control regulations.
If an owner/occupant of a property refuses to grant the director of public
works and engineering, or his designee, access to inspect a building for the
purpose of making a damage determination, the property and the owner/occupant
will be declared in violation of this title, and the director of engineering
shall be authorized to seek an administrative search warrant for the property
from the circuit court of Cook County strictly for the purpose of conducting
the inspection authorized by this subsection D. (Ord. M-15-16, 6-6-2016)
14-1-10: OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
The city council shall take into account flood hazards, to the extent that they
are known in all official actions related to land management, use and
development.
   A.   Review Of Development Documents: New subdivisions, manufactured home
parks, annexation agreements and planned unit developments (PUDs) within the
SFHA shall be reviewed to assure that the proposed developments are consistent
with sections
14-1-6,
14-1-7,
14-1-8 and
14-1-9 of this chapter and the need to minimize flood damage. Plats or plans
for new subdivisions, mobile home parks and planned unit developments (PUDs)
shall include a signed statement by a registered professional engineer that the
plat or plans account for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the plat act 1
.
   B.   Data Shown: Proposals for new subdivisions, manufactured home parks,
travel trailer parks, planned unit developments (PUDs) and additions to
manufactured home parks and additions to subdivisions shall include base flood
or 100-year frequency flood elevation data and floodway delineations. All new
plans recorded must show the location of any SFHA, which appears on the plat
and must be signed, sealed and certified by an Illinois registered land
surveyor as per the requirements of Public Act 85-267. Where this information
is not available from an existing study filed with the Illinois state water
survey, the applicant's engineer shall be responsible for calculating the base
flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation per subsection
14-1-5D of this chapter and the floodway delineation per the definition in
section
14-1-2 of this chapter and submitting it to the state water survey and OWR for
review and approval as best available regulatory data.
   C.   Preservation Of Natural Streams: Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other
public grounds shall be located and laid out in such a manner as to preserve
and utilize natural streams and channels. Wherever possible, the floodplains
shall be included within parks or other public grounds.
   D.   Compliance With Chapter Required: The city council shall not approve
any planned unit development (PUD) or plat of subdivision located outside the
corporate limits unless such agreement or plat is in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   E.   Detached Single-Family Garages And Sheds: All new construction of or
substantial improvements to detached single-family garages and sheds located in
an SFHA (zone A) or property shown as being lower than the base flood
elevation, shall be constructed in accordance with the requirements set forth
in this chapter and the following requirements:
      1.   Floodway Location Prohibited: The structure shall not be located in
the floodway.
      2.   Location On Single-Family Lot Required; Accessory To Principal
Structure: The structure must be constructed or located, if already existing,
as the case may be, on an existing single- family lot of record and be
accessory to a principal structure on the same lot.
      3.   Location Of Floor: The floor of the structure shall be located at
the existing ground elevation; however, the top of the foundation elevation
shall be two feet (2') above the base flood elevation. (See exhibits C through
F of this section for details.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d78c7c9594b077eb00c7309e1fa31ba5392692c0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2329.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d78c7c9594b077eb00c7309e1fa31ba5392692c0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2331.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d78c7c9594b077eb00c7309e1fa31ba5392692c0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2333.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d78c7c9594b077eb00c7309e1fa31ba5392692c0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2335.png]
 
      4.   Fees: The fees for new construction or substantial improvements to
detached single-family garages and sheds are set forth in
title 10, chapter 13 of this code.
      5.   Materials: The structure shall be constructed of materials that will
not be damaged by flooding and shall be constructed in accordance with all
applicable provisions of the Des Plaines building code and ordinance.
      6.   Utilities: All utilities shall be located a minimum of two feet (2')
above the base flood elevation.
      7.   Storage Of Vehicles And Tools: The structure shall only be used for
the storage of vehicles and tools and shall not have any rooms, such as a
workshop, greenhouse, etc.
      8.   Square Footage And Value Maximums: The structure shall not exceed
five hundred (500) square feet and shall have a maximum value of no more than
eight thousand dollars ($8,000.00) ($15,000.00 if brick) excluding the costs
for a driveway.
      9.   Recordation Requirement: It must be recorded on the title that the
structure is built in a floodplain.
      10.   Compliance Bond: The compliance bond shall be at least one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) to assure compliance. A higher compliance bond may be set
by the building official if deemed necessary.
      11.   Requirements Of Section
14-1-6 Of This Chapter: The requirements of section
14-1-6 of this chapter shall be met, to the extent determined by the director
of engineering.
      12.   Compliance Documents: Upon completion of the permit work the
following compliance documents must be submitted for approval by the director
of engineering and the building official prior to occupancy and refund of the
compliance bond:
         a.   As constructed plans certified by a professional engineer or
registered land surveyor; and
         b.   Copy of the recorded title identifying that the structure built
is within the SFHA. (Ord. M-15-16, 6-6-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/2.
14-1-11: VARIANCES:
No variances shall be granted to any development located in a "designated
floodway" (except as stipulated in subsection C of this section) as defined in
section
14-1-2 of this chapter. However, when a development proposal is located outside
of a designated floodway, and whenever the standards of this chapter place
undue hardship on a specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to
the engineering committee (planning and zoning board or floodplain commission)
for a variance. The director of engineering shall review the applicant's
request for a variance and shall submit his recommendation to the city council.
   A.   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that:
      1.   The development activity cannot be located outside the SFHA;
      2.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      3.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      4.   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety,
beneficial stream uses and functions, especially aquatic habitat or creation of
a nuisance;
The criteria for granting a variance should recognize and include the fact that
there are legitimate stream uses and functions, which may be adversely affected
by the granting of the variance. These uses include aesthetics, aquatic habitat
and recreation. Since these uses have a definite, though difficult to quantify,
economic value, the applicant should demonstrate that these uses will not be
impaired by the proposed activity as part of the application for a variance;
      5.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
lost environmental stream uses and functions, rescue or relief operations,
policing or repairs to stream beds and banks, roads, utilities or other public
facilities;
      6.   The provisions of sections
14-1-6 and 14-1-9 of this chapter shall be met;
      7.   The activity is not in a designated floodway;
      8.   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not represent a
general problem; and
      9.   The granting of the variance will not alter the essential character
of the area involved, including existing stream uses.
   B.   The director of engineering shall notify an applicant in writing that a
variance from the requirements of section
14-1-9 of this chapter that would lessen the degree of protection to a building
will:
      1.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts
as high as twenty five dollars ($25.00) for one hundred dollars ($100.00) of
insurance coverage;
      2.   Increase the risks to life and property; and
      3.   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks and
that he will acknowledge in writing that he assumes the risk and liability.
   C.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure. (Ord. M-15-16, 6-6-2016)
14-1-12: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may
occur or flood heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This
chapter does not imply that development, either inside or outside of the SFHA,
will be free from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on
the part of the city or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage
that results from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made
lawfully hereunder. (Ord. M-15-16, 6-6-2016)
14-1-13: PENALTY:
Failure to comply with the requirements of a permit or conditions of a variance
resolution shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. Upon due
investigation, the director of engineering may determine that a violation of
the minimum standards of this chapter exists. The director of engineering shall
notify the owner in writing of such violation.
   A.   If such owner fails after ten (10) days' notice to correct the
violation:
      1.   The city may make application to the circuit court for an injunction
requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as the court
deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter, and the city will be
obliged to take whatever actions will be necessary to ensure compliance with
this chapter.
      2.   Any person who violates this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof,
be fined not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) for each offense.
      3.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
      4.   The city may record a notice of violation on the title to the
property.
   B.   The director of engineering shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a wilful act to increase flood damages and, therefore,
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   C.   Nothing herein shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible. (Ord. M-15-16, 6-6-2016)
14-1-14: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. Where this chapter and other
ordinance, easements, covenants or deed restrictions conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. This chapter
is intended to repeal the original ordinance or resolution, which was adopted
to meet the national flood insurance program regulations, but is not intended
to repeal the resolution, which the city passed in order to establish initial
eligibility for the program. (Ord. M-15-16, 6-6-2016)
TITLE 15
MUNICIPAL TAXES
CHAPTER 1
MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' AND SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
15-1-1: Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax
15-1-2: Municipal Service Occupation Tax
15-1-3: Home Rule Retailers' And Service Occupation Tax
15-1-1: MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of selling tangible personal property at retail in this city at the
rate of one percent (1%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the
course of such business while this section is in effect, in accordance with the
provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1.
   B.   Report: Every such person engaged in such business in the city shall
file, on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the state
department of revenue required by section three of "an act in relation to a tax
upon persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property to
purchasers for use or consumption", approved June 28, 1933, as amended.
   C.   Tax Paid: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the
state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month.
   D.   Exclusion: The exclusion contained in section 2(d) of the retailers'
occupation tax act, approved June 28, 1933, as amended, shall not apply to
property within the city of Des Plaines. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-1-2: MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this
city in the business of making sales of service at the rate of one percent (1%)
of the cost price of all tangible personal property transferred by said
servicemen either in the form of tangible personal property or in the form of
real estate as an incident to a sale of service, in accordance with the
provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-5.
   B.   Report: Every supplier or serviceman required to account for municipal
service occupation tax for the benefit of the city shall file, on or before the
last day of each calendar month, the report to the state department of revenue
required by section 9 of the service occupation tax act, approved July 10,
1961, as amended.
   C.   Tax Paid: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the
state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed.
   D.   Exclusion: The exclusion contained in section 2(e) of the service
occupation tax act, approved July 19, 1961, as amended, shall not apply to
property within the city of Des Plaines. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-1-3: HOME RULE RETAILERS' AND SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Imposition Of Tax:
      1.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling tangible personal property, other than an item of tangible personal
property titled or registered with an agency of this state's government, at
retail in this municipality at the rate of one percent (1%) of the gross
receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while this section
is in effect.
      2.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the city in the
business of making sales of service, at the rate of one percent (1%) of the
selling price of all tangible personal property transferred by such servicemen
as an incident to a sale of service.
      3.   The above taxes shall not be applicable on the sales of food for
human consumption which is to be consumed off the premises where it is sold
(other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food which has been prepared
for immediate consumption) and prescription and nonprescription medicines,
drugs, medical appliances and insulin, urine testing materials, syringes and
needles used by diabetics.
      4.   The imposition of these home rule taxes are in accordance with the
provisions of sections 5/8-11-1 and 5/8-11-5, respectively, of the Illinois
municipal code.
   B.   Collection By Illinois Department Of Revenue: The taxes hereby imposed
in this section, and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an incident
thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the department of revenue of the
state of Illinois. The department of revenue shall have the full power to
administer and enforce the provisions of this section.
   C.   Effective Date: The effective date for the home rule retailers' and
service occupation tax shall be January 1, 1994. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
CHAPTER 2
MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE OCCUPATION TAXES
SECTION:
15-2-1: Municipal Automobile Renting Use Tax
15-2-2: Municipal Automobile Renting Occupation Tax
15-2-1: MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTING USE TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of using in
this city an automobile which is rented from a renter outside Illinois and
which is titled or registered with an agency of this state's government in this
city at the rate of one percent (1%) of the rental price of such automobile
while this section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-8, and pursuant to the home rule powers of
the city, as set forth in section 6 of article VII of the Illinois
constitution. Said tax shall be collected from the persons whose Illinois
address for titling or registration purposes is given as being in this city.
   B.   Report: Every such person using such automobiles in the city shall file
on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the state
department of revenue required by sections 2 and 3 of "an act in relation to a
tax upon persons engaged in the business of selling tangible property to
purchasers for use or consumption" approved June 29, 1933, as amended.
   C.   Tax Paid: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the
state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
renting of automobiles during the preceding month.
   D.   Effective Date: The effective date for the municipal automobile renting
use tax is January 8, 1982. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-2-2: MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTING OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of renting automobiles in the city, at the rate of one percent (1%) of
the gross receipts from such rentals made in the course of such business while
this chapter is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-7.
   B.   Report: Every such person using such automobiles in the city shall file
on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the state
department of revenue required by sections 2 and 3 of "an act in relation to a
tax upon persons engaged in the business of selling tangible property to
purchaser for use or consumption" approved June 29, 1933, as amended.
   C.   Tax Paid: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the
state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
renting of automobiles during the preceding month.
   D.   Effective Date: The effective date for the municipal automobile renting
occupation tax is January 8, 1982. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL UTILITY TAX
SECTION:
15-3-1: Definitions
15-3-2: Gross Receipts Tax Imposed; Amount
15-3-3: Kilowatt Hour Tax Imposed; Amount
15-3-4: Collection Of Tax
15-3-5: Tax Remittance And Return
15-3-6: Resales
15-3-7: Books And Records
15-3-8: Credits And Refunds
15-3-9: Exemptions
15-3-10: Tax To Be In Addition To Amount For Use Of Streets, Etc.
15-3-11: Limitations
15-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received for distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas or electricity, as the case may be; and for all
services rendered in connection therewith valued in money, whether received in
money or otherwise, including cash, credit, services and property of every kind
and material and for all services rendered therewith; and shall be determined
without any deduction on account of the cost of the service, product or
commodity supplied, the cost of materials used, labor or service cost, or any
other expenses whatsoever. (Tax on tax exemption: Gross receipts shall not
include any charges added to customers' bills pursuant to the provisions of
section 9-221 or 9-222 of the Illinois public utilities act or any other
separately stated charge added to customers' bills in respect of any tax or
other governmental imposition.) (Exemption for school districts and units of
local government: "Gross receipts" shall not include that portion of the
consideration received for distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling gas
or electricity to school districts or units of local government.)
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, limited liability company,
municipal corporation, the state or any of its political subdivisions, any
state university created by statute, or a receiver, trustee, conservator or
other representative appointed by order of any court.
PERSON MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE: Any person having or
maintaining within this state, directly or by a subsidiary or other affiliate,
an office, generation facility, distribution facility, transmission facility,
sales office or other place of business, or any employee, agent, or other
representative operating within this state under the authority of the person or
its subsidiary or other affiliate, irrespective of whether such place of
business or agent or other representative is located in this state permanently
or temporarily, or whether such person, subsidiary or other affiliate is
licensed or qualified to do business in this state.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: Any acquisition of electricity by a purchaser for purposes
of use or consumption, and not for resale, but shall not include the use of
electricity by a public utility, as defined in section 8-11-2 of the Illinois
municipal code 1
, directly in the generation, production, transmission, delivery or sale of
electricity.
PURCHASER: Any person who uses or consumes, within the corporate limits of the
city, electricity acquired in a purchase at retail (other than an exempt
purchaser) 2
.
TAX COLLECTOR: The person delivering electricity to the purchaser. (Ord. M-19-
13, 10-7-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
2 2. See section
  15-3-9 of this chapter.
15-3-2: GROSS RECEIPTS TAX IMPOSED; AMOUNT:
A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the business of distributing,
supplying, furnishing or selling gas for use or consumption within the
corporate limits of the city, and not for resale, at the rate of three percent
(3%) of the gross receipts therefrom. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-3-3: KILOWATT HOUR TAX IMPOSED; AMOUNT:
   A.   Pursuant to section 8-11-2 of the Illinois municipal code 1
, the city's home rule authority, and any and all other applicable authority, a
tax is imposed upon the privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in
a purchase at retail and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the
city at the following rates, calculated on a monthly basis for each purchaser:
Kilowatt Hours Used Or Consumed In A Month Cents Per Kilowatt Hour
Kilowatt Hours Used Or Consumed In A Month Cents Per Kilowatt Hour
First 2,000                                0.571
Next 48,000                                0.374
Next 50,000                                0.337
Next 400,000                               0.328
Next 500,000                               0.318
Next 2,000,000                             0.300
Next 2,000,000                             0.295
Next 5,000,000                             0.290
Next 10,000,000                            0.285
Excess of 20,000,000                       0.281
   B.   Said tax is in addition to all taxes, fees and other revenue measures
imposed by the city, the state, or any other political subdivision of the
state.
   C.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the tax shall not
be imposed if and to the extent that imposition or collection of the tax would
violate the constitution of the United States, the Illinois statutes, or the
constitution of the state of Illinois.
   D.   The municipal utility tax imposed by ordinance M-51-98 with respect to
the use or consumption of electricity by residential and nonresidential
customers is amended and increased to the rates set forth in subsection A of
this section effective January 1, 2010, in accordance with section 16-104 of
the public utilities act 2
. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
 
Notes
1 3. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
2 1. 220 ILCS 5/16-104.
15-3-4: COLLECTION OF TAX:
   A.   Subject to the provisions of section
15-3-6 of this chapter regarding the delivery of electricity to resellers, the
tax imposed under this chapter shall be collected from purchasers by the person
maintaining a place of business in this state who delivers electricity to such
purchasers. This tax shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to the person who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser and is recoverable at the same time
and in the same manner as the original charge for delivering the electricity.
   B.   Any tax required to be collected by this chapter, and any tax in fact
collected, shall constitute a debt owed to the city by the person delivering
the electricity, provided, that the person delivering electricity shall be
allowed credit for such tax related to deliveries of electricity, the charges
for which are written off as uncollectible, and provided further, that if such
charges are thereafter collected, the delivering supplier shall be obligated to
remit such tax.
   C.   Persons delivering electricity shall collect from the purchaser by
adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the electricity. Persons
delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to such gross charge an
amount equal to three percent (3%) of the tax they collect to reimburse them
for their expenses incurred in keeping records, billing customers, preparing
and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data to the city upon
request. For purposes of this chapter, any partial payment of a billing amount
not specifically identified by the purchaser shall be deemed to be for the
delivery of electricity. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-3-5: TAX REMITTANCE AND RETURN:
   A.   Every tax collector shall on a monthly basis file a return in a form
prescribed by the director of finance and administrative services. The return
and accompanying remittance shall be due on or before the last day of the month
following the month during which the tax is collected or is required to be
collected under section
15-3-4 of this chapter.
   B.   If the person delivering electricity fails to collect the tax from the
purchaser or is excused from collecting the tax, under section
15-3-4 of this chapter, then the purchaser shall file a return in a form
prescribed by the director of finance and administrative services and pay the
tax directly to the director on or before the last day of the month following
the month during which the electricity is used or consumed. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-
7-2013)
15-3-6: RESALES:
   A.   Resale Of Electricity: Electricity that is delivered to a person in the
city shall be considered to be for use and consumption by that person unless
the person receiving the electricity has an active resale number issued by the
director of finance and administrative services and furnishes that number to
the person who delivers the electricity, and certifies to that person that the
sale is either entirely or partially nontaxable as a sale for resale.
   B.   Resale Number: If a person who receives electricity in the city claims
to be an authorized reseller of electricity, that person shall apply to the
director of finance and administrative services for a resale number. The
applicant shall state facts showing why it is not liable for the tax imposed by
this chapter on any purchases of electricity and shall furnish such additional
information as the director may reasonably require.
   C.   Approval; Assignment: Upon approval of the application the director
shall assign a resale number to the applicant and shall certify the number to
the applicant.
   D.   Cancellation: The director may cancel the resale number of any person
if the person fails to pay any tax payable under this chapter for electricity
used or consumed by the parties, or if the number: 1) was obtained through
misrepresentation, or 2) is no longer necessary because the person has
discontinued making resales.
   E.   Collection And Remittance:
      1.   If a reseller has acquired electricity partly for use or consumption
and partly for resale, the reseller shall pay the tax imposed by this chapter
directly to the director pursuant to subsection
15-3-3A of this chapter on the amount of electricity that the reseller uses or
consumes, and shall collect the tax pursuant to section
15-3-4 of this chapter and remit the tax pursuant to subsection
15-3-5A of this chapter on the amount of electricity delivered by the reseller
to a purchaser.
      2.   Any person who delivers electricity to a reseller having an active
resale number and complying with all other conditions of this section shall be
excused from collecting and remitting the tax on any portion of the electricity
delivered to the reseller, provided that the person reports to the director the
total amount of electricity delivered to the reseller, and such other
information that the director may reasonably require. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-3-7: BOOKS AND RECORDS:
Every tax collector, and every taxpayer required to pay the tax imposed by this
chapter, shall keep accurate books and records of its business or activity,
including contemporaneous books and records denoting the transactions that gave
rise, or may have given rise, to any tax liability under this chapter. The
books and records shall be subject to and available for inspection at all times
during business hours of the day. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-3-8: CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, in order to permit sound
fiscal planning and budgeting by the city, no person shall be entitled to a
refund of, or credit for, a tax imposed under this chapter unless the person
files a claim for refund or credit within one year after the date on which the
tax was paid or remitted with the director of finance and administrative
services. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-3-9: EXEMPTIONS:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the tax shall not be
imposed if and to the extent that imposition or collection of the tax would
violate the constitution or statutes of the United States or the constitution
of the state of Illinois. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-3-10: TAX TO BE IN ADDITION TO AMOUNT FOR USE OF STREETS, ETC.:
Such tax shall be in addition to the payment of money, or value of products or
services furnished to this municipality by the taxpayer as compensation for the
use of its streets, alleys or other public places, or installation and
maintenance therein, thereon or thereunder of poles, wires, pipes or other
equipment used in the operation of the taxpayer's business. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-
7-2013)
15-3-11: LIMITATIONS:
If section
15-3-2 of this chapter or the application thereof is held unconstitutional or
otherwise invalid, the amount of tax due as a consequence of such holding shall
be limited to the amount that the taxpayer is authorized to charge and collect
from such school districts and units of local government pursuant to the
provisions of 9-221 of the public utilities act or any successor thereto. (Ord.
M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
CHAPTER 4
HOTEL-MOTEL OPERATOR'S OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
15-4-1: Title
15-4-2: Definitions
15-4-3: Rate; Exemption
15-4-4: Books Or Records
15-4-5: Transmittal Of Tax Revenue
15-4-6: Collection
15-4-7: Suspension Of Licenses
15-4-8: Proceeds Of Tax And Fines
15-4-1: TITLE:
This chapter may be cited and referred to as the HOTEL-MOTEL OPERATOR'S
OCCUPATION TAX. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise:
BOOKS OR RECORDS: Those books or records to be kept pursuant to the hotel
operator's occupation tax act 1
as subsequently amended from time to time.
HOTEL OR MOTEL: Any structure in which the public may, for a consideration,
obtain living quarters, sleeping, or housekeeping accommodations. The term
includes, but is not limited to, inns, motels, tourist homes or courts, lodging
houses, rooming houses, and apartment buildings.
OCCUPANCY: The use or possession, or right to use or possession, of any room or
rooms in a hotel or motel for living quarters, or for sleeping or housekeeping
accommodations. Occupancy does not mean the use or possession or right to the
use or possession of any room or rooms in a hotel or motel for purposes of
displaying merchandise, samples, etc., for the purpose of holding meetings, for
use as office space, or for private dining purposes.
OFFICE OF DIRECTOR OF FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES: The office of the
director of finance and administrative services of the city of Des Plaines,
Illinois.
OPERATOR: Any person operating a hotel or motel.
PERMANENT RESIDENT: Any person who occupies or has the right to occupy any room
or rooms in a hotel for at least thirty (30) consecutive days.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint venture, public or private corporation, receiver, executor,
trustee, syndicate, association, club, business trust, institution, agency,
municipal corporation, district or other political subdivision, contractor,
supplier, vendor, vendee, operator, user or owner, or any officer, agents,
employees or other representative acting either for himself or for any other
person in any capacity, any other entity recognized by law as the subject of
rights and duties, or any other representative appointed by order of any court.
The masculine, feminine, singular or plural is included in any circumstances.
RENT OR RENTAL: The consideration received for occupancy, valued in money,
whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits,
and property or services of any kind or nature.
ROOM OR ROOMS: Any living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations.
One room offered for rental with or without an adjoining bath shall be
considered as a single room. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 145/1 et seq.
15-4-3: RATE; EXEMPTION:
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed upon persons engaged in the business of
renting, leasing, or letting rooms in a hotel or motel at the rate of seven
percent (7%) of the gross rental receipts from such renting, leasing or
letting, excluding, however, from said gross rental receipts, the proceeds of
such renting, leasing or letting to permanent residents of said hotel or motel.
   B.   However, such tax is not imposed upon the privilege of engaging in any
business in interstate commerce or otherwise, which business may not, under the
constitution and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation
by a municipality.
   C.   Persons subject to the tax imposed by this chapter may reimburse
themselves for their tax liability under this chapter by separately stating
such tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any tax imposed pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/8-3-13.
   D.   The tax herein imposed shall be in addition to all other occupation or
privilege taxes imposed by the city, the state or by any municipal corporation
or political subdivision thereof. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-4-4: BOOKS OR RECORDS:
   A.   Maintenance: Every operator shall keep books or records of his business
as an operator reflecting the rents and occupancies under this chapter.
   B.   Failure To Maintain: If any such operator fails to keep such books or
records, he shall be liable to tax at the rate designated in section
15-4-3 of this chapter upon the entire proceeds from his hotel or motel.
   C.   Inspection: The office of the director of finance and administrative
services, or any person certified by him as his deputy or representative, may
enter the premises of any hotel or motel for inspection and examination of
books and records in order to effectuate the proper administration of this
chapter and to assure the enforcement of the collection of the tax imposed.
   D.   Failure To Permit Inspection: It shall be unlawful for any person to
prevent, hinder or interfere with the office of the director of finance and
administrative services or his duly authorized deputy or representative in the
discharge of his duties in the performance of this chapter. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-
7-2013)
15-4-5: TRANSMITTAL OF TAX REVENUE:
   A.   The person or persons who own a hotel room within the city shall file
tax returns reflecting tax receipts received with respect to each separate
hotel, during each month upon forms prescribed by the office of the director of
finance and administrative services. Payments of the tax shall be made to the
office of the director on or before the twenty fifth day of the month
succeeding the month for which the tax was due.
Notwithstanding the above provision, the first taxing period for the purpose of
this chapter shall commence on November 1, 1973.
All subsequent reporting periods shall be full calendar months. At the time of
filing said tax returns, the owner shall pay to the office of the director of
finance and administrative services all taxes due for the period to which the
tax return applies.
   B.   If for any reason any tax is not paid when due, a penalty at the rate
of one percent (1%) per thirty (30) day period, or portion thereof, from the
day of delinquency shall be added and collected. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-4-6: COLLECTION:
Whenever any person shall fail to pay any tax as herein provided, the city
attorney shall, upon the request of the office of the director of finance and
administrative services, bring or cause to be brought an action to enforce the
payment of said tax in behalf of the city in any court of competent
jurisdiction. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-4-7: SUSPENSION OF LICENSES:
If the mayor, after a hearing held by or for him, shall find that any person
has wilfully avoided payment of the tax imposed by this chapter, he may suspend
or revoke all city licenses held by such tax evader. The owner shall have an
opportunity to be heard at such hearing to be held not less than five (5) days
after notice of the time and place of the hearing to be held, addressed to him
at his last known place of business. Pending notice, hearing and finding, any
license of which he may be possessed may be temporarily suspended. Any
suspension or revocation of any license shall not release or discharge the
owner from his civil liability for the payment of the tax nor from prosecution
for such offense. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-4-8: PROCEEDS OF TAX AND FINES:
All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under this chapter,
including penalties, shall be paid into the treasury of the city. (Ord. M-19-
13, 10-7-2013)
CHAPTER 5
O'HARE CORRIDOR PRIVILEGE TAX AREA
SECTION:
15-5-1: Definitions
15-5-2: Tax Imposed
15-5-3: Books Or Records
15-5-4: Tax Remittance And Return
15-5-5: Collection
15-5-6: Suspend Or Revoke City Licenses
15-5-7: Proceeds Of Tax And Fines
15-5-8: Conflicts
15-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions contained in this chapter are as follows:
BOOKS OR RECORDS: Those books or records to be kept pursuant to this chapter,
as may be subsequently amended from time to time.
CITY: The city of Des Plaines, Cook County, Illinois.
FINANCE DEPARTMENT: The office of the finance department of the city.
HOTEL OR MOTEL: Any structure in which the public may, for a consideration,
obtain living quarters, sleeping, or housekeeping accommodations. The terms
include, but are not limited to, inns, motels, tourist homes or courts, lodging
houses, rooming houses, and apartment buildings.
OCCUPY (Or Any Derivative Thereof): The use or possession, or right to use or
possession, of any room or rooms in a hotel or motel for living quarters, or
for sleeping or housekeeping accommodations, not including, however, the use or
possession or right to the use or possession of any room or rooms in a hotel or
motel for purposes of displaying merchandise, samples, etc., for the purpose of
holding meetings, for use as office space, or for private dining purposes.
O'HARE CORRIDOR PRIVILEGE TAX AREA: The area bounded by a straight line
extending Lunt Avenue from its intersection with Greco Avenue to its
intersection with Mannheim Road, Mannheim Road from its intersection with Lunt
Avenue to its intersection with Higgins Road, Higgins Road from Mannheim Road
to its intersection with I-90, I-90 from its intersection with Higgins Road to
its intersection with the rail lines located west of Willow Creek, and the rail
line from its intersection with I-90 to the straight line drawn extending Lunt
Avenue from Greco Avenue to Mannheim Road.
PERSON OR PERSONS: Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, public or private corporation, receiver,
executor, trustee, syndicate, association, club, business trust, institution,
agency, municipal corporation, district or other political subdivision,
contractor, supplier, vendor, vendee, operator, user or owner, or any officer,
agent, employee or other representative acting either for himself or for any
other person in any capacity, any other entity recognized by law as the subject
of rights and duties, or any other representative appointed by order of any
court. The masculine, feminine, singular or plural is included in any
circumstances.
RENT (Or Any Derivative Thereof): The consideration received for occupancy,
valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including receipts,
cash, credits, and property or services of any kind or nature.
ROOM OR ROOMS: Any living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations.
One room offered for rental with or without an adjoining bath shall be
considered as a single room. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013; amd. Ord. M-11-21, 9-20-
2021)
15-5-2: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is imposed on the privilege of renting a hotel or motel room as follows:
   A.   There is hereby levied and imposed upon the use and privilege of
renting a hotel or motel room within the O'Hare corridor privilege tax area a
tax of four percent (4%) of the rental charge for each such hotel and motel
room rented for each twenty four (24) hour period or any portion thereof;
provided, however, that the tax shall not be levied and imposed upon any person
to rent a hotel or motel room for more than thirty (30) consecutive days who
works or lives in the same hotel or motel.
   B.   The ultimate incident of and liability for payment of said tax shall be
borne by the person who seeks the privilege of occupying any such hotel or
motel room.
   C.   The tax herein levied shall be paid in addition to any and all other
taxes and charges. It shall be the duty of the owner, manager and operator of
every hotel or motel to act as trustee for and on account of the city, and to
secure said tax from the person renting the hotel or motel room and pay over to
the finance department said tax under the procedures prescribed herein.
   D.   Every person required to collect the tax levied by this chapter shall
secure said tax from the person renting the hotel or motel room at the time he/
she collects the rental payment for the hotel or motel room. Upon the invoice
receipt or other statement or memorandum of the rent given at the time of
payment, the amount due under the tax provided in this chapter shall be stated
separately on said documents. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-5-3: BOOKS OR RECORDS:
The books or records shall be maintained as follows:
   A.   Every person operating a hotel or motel shall keep books or records of
his business as an operator reflecting the rents and occupancies hereunder.
   B.   If any such operator fails to keep such books or records, he/she shall
be liable to tax at the rate designated in subsection
15-5-2A of this chapter upon the entire proceeds from such hotel or motel.
   C.   The director of finance, or any person certified by him/her as his
deputy or representative, may enter the premises of any hotel or motel for
inspection and examination of books and records in order to effectuate the
proper administration hereof and to assure the enforcement of the collection of
the tax imposed.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder, or interfere
with the director of finance or his/her duly authorized deputy or
representative in the discharge of his duties in the performance hereof. (Ord.
M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-5-4: TAX REMITTANCE AND RETURN:
The person or persons who operate a hotel or motel within the O'Hare corridor
privilege tax area shall file tax returns reflecting tax receipts received with
respect to each separate hotel or motel, during each month upon forms
prescribed by the finance department. Payments of the tax shall be made to the
finance department on or before the twenty fifth day of the month succeeding
the month for which the tax was due. All subsequent reporting periods shall be
full calendar months. At the time of filing said tax returns, said operator
shall pay to the finance department all taxes due for the period to which the
tax return applies. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-5-5: COLLECTION:
Whenever any person shall fail to pay any tax as herein provided, the city
attorney shall, upon the request of the finance department, bring or cause to
be brought an action to enforce the payment of said tax in behalf of the city
in any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-5-6: SUSPEND OR REVOKE CITY LICENSES:
If a court of competent jurisdiction finds that any person has wilfully avoided
payment of the tax imposed by this chapter, the director of finance may suspend
or revoke all city licenses held by such person. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-5-7: PROCEEDS OF TAX AND FINES:
All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under this chapter,
including penalties, shall be paid into a special, segregated account which the
city shall establish and into which it shall deposit the proceeds resulting
from the imposition of the tax hereunder. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-5-8: CONFLICTS:
The provisions of
title 1, chapter 15, "Locally Imposed And Administered Tax Rights And
Responsibilities", of this code are incorporated into and made a part of this
chapter. In the event that any of the provisions of this chapter conflict with
the provisions of
title 1, chapter 15 of this code,
title 1, chapter 15 of this code shall prevail. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
CHAPTER 6
O'HARE CORRIDOR PRIVILEGE TAX AREA PARKING TAX
SECTION:
15-6-1: Definitions
15-6-2: Tax Imposed
15-6-3: Books Or Records
15-6-4: Tax Remittance And Return
15-6-5: Collection
15-6-6: Suspend Or Revoke City Licenses
15-6-7: Proceeds Of Tax And Fines
15-6-8: Conflicts
15-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions contained in this chapter are as follows:
BOOKS OR RECORDS: Those books or records to be kept pursuant to this chapter,
as may be subsequently amended from time to time.
CITY: The city of Des Plaines, Cook County, Illinois.
FINANCE DEPARTMENT: The office of the finance department of the city.
O'HARE CORRIDOR PRIVILEGE TAX AREA: The area bounded by a straight line
extending Lunt Avenue from its intersection with Greco Avenue to its
intersection with Mannheim Road, Mannheim Road from its intersection with Lunt
Avenue to its intersection with Higgins Road, Higgins Road from Mannheim Road
to its intersection with I-90, I-90 from its intersection with Higgins Road to
its intersection with the rail lines located west of Willow Creek, and the rail
line from its intersection with I-90 to the straight line drawn extending Lunt
Avenue from Greco Avenue to Mannheim Road.
PERSON OR PERSONS: Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, public or private corporation, receiver,
executor, trustee, syndicate, association, club, business trust, institution,
agency, municipal corporation, district or other political subdivision,
contractor, supplier, vendor, vendee, operator, user or owner, or any officer,
agent, employee or other representative acting either for himself or for any
other person in any capacity, any other entity recognized by law as the subject
of rights and duties, or any other representative appointed by order of any
court. The masculine, feminine, singular or plural is included in any
circumstances.
VEHICLE: A self-propelled mechanism, such as a truck, machine, tractor, roller,
derrick, crane, trencher, portable hoisting engine or automobile or any
conveyance used for carrying persons or things. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013; amd.
Ord. M-11-21, 9-20-2021)
15-6-2: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   Rate: For businesses licensed pursuant to section
7-7-2 of this code, a tax is hereby imposed on the privilege of parking a
vehicle at a rate of one dollar ($1.00) per vehicle per day.
   B.   Area Defined: The tax hereby imposed is imposed only within the area
defined herein as the "O'Hare corridor privilege tax area".
   C.   Application: A business desiring to park vehicles for a fee shall file
an application for authority to do so with the finance department on forms
provided by the city.
   D.   Exceptions: The following uses shall be exempt from the imposition of
and collection of the tax otherwise imposed by this chapter:
      1.   Restaurants parking vehicles for patrons of the restaurant. However,
if the restaurant parking lot is being used for another event off the premises,
the one dollar ($1.00) tax per vehicle per day shall apply.
      2.   Parking for customers or patrons for any retail business or service
rendered on the premises. However, if the retail or service business parking
lot is being used for another event off the premises, the one dollar ($1.00)
tax per vehicle per day shall apply.
      3.   Vehicles parking for the purposes of delivery, or vehicles servicing
equipment, to maintain the daily operations for the businesses on the premises.
      4.   Vehicles parking for employees of any restaurant, retail or service
businesses. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-6-3: BOOKS OR RECORDS:
The books or records shall be maintained as follows:
   A.   For businesses licensed pursuant to section
7-7-2 of this code, as an operator of a parking lot, books or records must be
maintained reflecting the rental of said parking spaces.
   B.   If any such operator fails to keep such books or records, he/she shall
be liable to tax at the rate designated in subsection
15-6-2A of this chapter upon the entire proceeds from such parking area.
   C.   The director of finance, or his/her representative, may enter the
premises of any business for inspection and examination of books and records in
order to effectuate the proper administration hereof and to assure the
enforcement of the collection of the tax imposed.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder, or interfere
with the director of finance or his/her duly authorized representative in the
discharge of his duties in the performance hereof. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-6-4: TAX REMITTANCE AND RETURN:
The person or persons who rent parking spaces within the O'Hare corridor
privilege tax area shall file tax returns reflecting tax receipts received with
respect to each separate parking area, during each month upon forms prescribed
by the finance department. Payments of the tax shall be made to the finance
department on or before the twenty fifth day of the month succeeding the month
for which the tax was due. All subsequent reporting periods shall be full
calendar months. At the time of filing said tax returns, said operator shall
pay to the finance department all taxes due for the period to which the tax
return applies. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-6-5: COLLECTION:
Whenever any person shall fail to pay any tax as herein provided, the city
attorney shall, upon the request of the finance department, bring or cause to
be brought an action to enforce the payment of said tax in behalf of the city
in any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-6-6: SUSPEND OR REVOKE CITY LICENSES:
If a court of competent jurisdiction finds that any person has wilfully avoided
payment of the tax imposed by this chapter, the director of finance may suspend
or revoke all city licenses held by such person. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-6-7: PROCEEDS OF TAX AND FINES:
All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under this chapter,
including penalties, shall be paid into a special, segregated account which the
city shall establish and into which it shall deposit the proceeds resulting
from the imposition of the tax hereunder. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-6-8: CONFLICTS:
The provisions of
title 1, chapter 15, "Locally Imposed And Administered Tax Rights And
Responsibilities", of this code are incorporated into and made a part of this
chapter. In the event that any of the provisions of this chapter conflict with
the provisions of
title 1, chapter 15 of this code,
title 1, chapter 15 of this code shall prevail. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
CHAPTER 7
REAL ESTATE TRANSFER TAX
SECTION:
15-7-1: Definitions
15-7-2: Tax Imposed
15-7-3: Liability For Tax
15-7-4: Collection Of Tax; Purchase Of Stamps
15-7-5: Filing Of Declaration
15-7-6: Subdivision Violations
15-7-7: Exemptions
15-7-8: Issuance Of Real Estate Transfer Tax Stamps Or Exemption Mark
15-7-9: Recordation Of Deeds
15-7-10: Duty Of Trustee
15-7-11: Proceeds Of Tax
15-7-12: Civil Liability For Tax
15-7-13: Real Estate Transfer Tax Refunds; Return Of Unused Stamps
15-7-14: Exemption Processing Fee
15-7-15: Reserved
15-7-16: Inspection Of Nonowner Occupied Property Prior To Sale Or Transfer;
Order Of Compliance
15-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, whenever any of the following words, terms or
definitions are used herein, they shall have the meanings ascribed to them in
this section:
 
                     Any interest, regardless of how small or minimal such
BENEFICIAL INTEREST: interest may be, in a land trust, held by a trustee for
                     the beneficiaries of such land trust.
                     Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association,
PERSON:              joint stock company, joint venture, public or private
                     corporation, or a receiver, executor, trustee, conservator
                     or other representative appointed by order of any court.
RECORDATION:         The recording of deeds with the office of the Cook County
                     Clerk, Illinois.
                     The amount of the full actual consideration for any
VALUE:               transfer covered hereunder, including the amount of any
                     lien or liens assumed by the grantee or purchaser. (Ord.
                     M-19-13, 10-7-2013; amd. Ord. M-7-22, 2-7-2022)
 
15-7-2: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is imposed on the privilege of transferring title to real estate located
within the corporate limits of the city as evidenced by the recordation of a
deed by any person and a tax is imposed on the privilege of transferring the
beneficial interest in real estate located within the corporate limits of the
city at the rate of two dollars ($2.00) per one thousand dollar ($1,000.00)
value of the property, for each transfer. The tax herein levied shall be in
addition to any and all other taxes and shall be paid by the seller. (Ord. M-
19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-7-3: LIABILITY FOR TAX:
The ultimate incidence and liability for payment of the tax imposed by this
chapter shall be borne by the seller, the grantor of any deed subject to this
chapter or by the grantor, assignor or transferor of any instrument conveying
the beneficial interest in real estate within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-7-4: COLLECTION OF TAX; PURCHASE OF STAMPS:
The tax levied by this chapter shall be paid by the purchase of tax stamps from
the director of finance or their designee. The tax stamp must be affixed to the
face of the deed to demonstrate that the tax has been paid prior to recordation
of the deed or document transferring beneficial interest. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-
2013; amd. Ord. M-7-22, 2-7-2022)
15-7-5: FILING OF DECLARATION:
At such time as the tax levied by this chapter is paid there shall be filed
with the director of finance a fully executed and completed copy of the real
estate transfer declaration required by section 3 of the real estate transfer
tax of the state of Illinois, or a declaration of the full consideration paid
for the transfer of beneficial interest which declaration shall be on a form
provided by the director of finance. Such declaration shall be deemed as a
confidential record. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013; amd. Ord. M-7-22, 2-7-2022)
15-7-6: SUBDIVISION VIOLATIONS:
The director of community and economic development, or their designee, shall
review the determination filed pursuant to section
15-7-5 of this code and determine if the real estate to be transferred has been
subdivided in accordance with the subdivision regulations of section
13-1-2 of this code. The director of community and economic development may
require the seller or grantor to provide documentation to substantiate that the
property has been subdivided in accordance with section
13-1-2 of this code. If the director of community and economic development
determines that the property has not been subdivided in accordance with section
13-1-2 of this code, the transfer tax stamps shall not be issued until the
property has been subdivided. This section does not apply to any real estate
transferred in the same lot or portion thereof prior to August 1, 1979. (Ord.
M-19-13, 10-7-2013; amd. Ord. M-7-22, 2-7-2022)
15-7-7: EXEMPTIONS:
An application for exemption from the transfer tax may be made by submitting
the deed and a certificate justifying an exemption to the City in accordance
with this section. The tax imposed by this chapter shall not apply to the
following transactions:
   A.   Transactions involving property acquired by or from any governmental
body or by any corporation, society, association, foundation or institution
organized and operated exclusively for charitable, religious or educational
purposes.
   B.   Transactions which secure debt or other obligation.
   C.   Transactions in which deeds, without additional consideration, confirm,
correct, modify or supplement deeds previously recorded.
   D.   Transactions in which the actual consideration is less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00).
   E.   Transactions in which the deeds are tax deeds.
   F.   Transactions which are releases of property which is security for a
debt or other obligation.
   G.   Transactions of partitions.
   H.   Transactions made pursuant to merges, consolidations or transfers or
sales of substantially all of the assets of a corporation pursuant to plans of
reorganization.
   I.   Transactions between subsidiary corporations and their parents for no
consideration other than the cancellation or surrender of the subsidiary
corporation's stock.
   J.   Transactions wherein there is an actual exchange of real property
except that the money difference or money's worth paid from one to the other
shall not be exempt from the tax.
   K.   Transactions representing transfers subject to the imposition of a
documentary stamp tax imposed by the government of the United States.
   L.   Transactions involving deeds issued to holder of a mortgage pursuant to
a mortgage foreclosure proceeding or pursuant to a transfer in lieu of
foreclosure.
Every deed or other instrument which is tax exempt pursuant to this section
shall be presented to the director of finance so as to be appropriately marked
by said director as an exempt deed or instrument eligible for recordation
without the payment of tax. At such time as a deed or instrument is presented
to the director, a certificate setting forth the facts which justify exemption
shall be presented.
(Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013; amd. Ord. M-7-22, 2-7-2022)
15-7-8: ISSUANCE OF REAL ESTATE TRANSFER TAX STAMPS OR EXEMPTION MARK:
   A.   The City shall not issue transfer tax stamps or approve an exemption
from the transfer tax pursuant to Section
15-7-7 of this Chapter unless the applicant first:
      1.   Pays in full a final bill for any delinquent charges and penalties
for the provision of water, refuse collection, storm sewer, and sanitary sewer
services, including facility charges and capital fees;
      2.   Pays in full any unpaid liens, judgments, or other sums due and
owing to the City; and
      3.   Either obtains a determination from the City that the property is in
compliance with the city code or signs a compliance order, prepared by the
City, in accordance with
15-7-16.B.
The transfer tax stamps or exemption mark shall be issued only during the
regular business hours of the city offices and the offices of such agent as the
city may designate.
   B.   For the purpose of reviewing a request for the stamps or an exemption,
the city shall process a complete application request within five business
days.
   C.   Upon issuance of any tax stamp, the issuer must be canceled and defaced
it so as to render it unfit for reuse by marking it with their initials, the
day, month and year when the affixing occurs, and the address of the property
being transferred. Upon placement of any exemption mark on a deed or other
instrument of conveyance, the issuer must cancel and deface it so as to render
it unfit for reuse by marking it with their initials and the day, month, and
year when the mark is made. Such defacement shall be made by writing or
stamping in indelible ink; provided, however, the stamp or exemption mark shall
not be so defaced as to prevent ready determination of its genuineness.
   D.   Non-transferable: Each tax stamp is issued for a specific property
conveyance or transfer and is intended to be affixed to a particular deed or
other document of conveyance. The tax stamp is nontransferable and may not be
applied to any other deed or conveyance document for the property listed on the
stamp or any other property. Unused stamps must be returned to the City
pursuant to Section
15-7-13 of this chapter. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013; amd. Ord. M-7-22, 2-7-2022)
15-7-9: RECORDATION OF DEEDS:
No deed conveying real property within the corporate limits of the city shall
be entitled to recordation by the recorder of deeds or the registrar of titles
of Cook County, Illinois, unless such deed shall bear either a city real estate
transfer tax stamp or an exemption mark from the director of finance. (Ord. M-
19-13, 10-7-2013; amd. Ord. M-7-22, 2-7-2022)
15-7-10: DUTY OF TRUSTEE:
No trustee of real estate shall accept an assignment of beneficial interest in
real estate located in the city unless such instrument shall bear either a city
real estate transfer tax stamp or an exemption mark from the director of
finance. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013; amd. Ord. M-7-22, 2-7-2022)
15-7-11: PROCEEDS OF TAX:
All proceeds resulting from the collection of the tax imposed by this chapter,
including interest and penalties assessed pursuant to this chapter, shall be
paid into the city treasury and shall be credited to and deposited in the
general fund of the city. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013; amd. Ord. M-7-22, 2-7-2022)
15-7-12: CIVIL LIABILITY FOR TAX:
In the event of failure by any person to pay to the director of finance the tax
required hereunder when the same shall be due, interest will accumulate and be
due upon the transfer tax at the rate of one percent per month commencing on
the first day following the day when the transfer tax becomes due. The city may
bring an action to collect such tax, interest and penalties in any court of
competent jurisdiction. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013; amd. Ord. M-7-22, 2-7-2022)
15-7-13: REAL ESTATE TRANSFER TAX REFUNDS; RETURN OF UNUSED STAMPS:
   A.   A grantor, assignor, transferor, or seller (hereinafter referred to as
"Taxpayer") who has paid to the director of finance the tax provided for herein
shall be entitled to a refund of two dollars ($2.00) for every one thousand
dollars ($1,000) value or fraction thereof as paid as stated in the
declaration; provided such Taxpayer meets all of the following requirements
with regard to the real property for which such transfer tax was paid
(hereinafter referred to as "Sale Dwelling Unit"):
      1.   The Taxpayer has occupied the Sale Dwelling Unit as their principal
residence prior to sale;
      2.   The Taxpayer has not rented or leased to anyone any portion(s) of
the Sale Dwelling Unit or the real property upon which such Sale Dwelling Unit
is located: and
      3.   Either:
         a.   The Taxpayer has purchased and occupied as their principal
residence another dwelling (hereinafter referred to as the "Purchase Dwelling
Unit") within the corporate limits of the City of Des Plaines within one year
after the date that the transfer tax was paid on the transfer of title to the
Sale Dwelling Unit;
         b.   The Taxpayer has purchased and occupied as their principal
residence the Purchase Dwelling Unit within the corporate limits of the City of
Des Plaines within one year before the date that the transfer tax was paid on
the transfer of title to the Sale Dwelling Unit; or
         c.   The grantor or seller applies for the refund within sixty (60)
days after the second transfer as described in subsections (a) and (b) above.
   B.   Return of Unused Stamps and Tax Refunds: The City must be notified of
all failed sales and other conveyance transactions for which a tax stamp had
been issued. Unused transfer stamps must be returned to the City. Tax stamps
returned within ninety (90) days of purchase will be eligible for full tax
refund. Tax stamps returned ninety (90) to one hundred eighty (180) days after
purchase are eligible for a fifty percent (50%) tax refund. No tax refund will
be issued for tax stamps returned more than one hundred eighty (180) days after
purchase. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013; amd. Ord. M-7-22, 2-7-2022)
15-7-14: EXEMPTION PROCESSING FEE:
A processing fee of ten dollars ($10.00) shall be charged for processing and
issuing an exemption mark for any deed for which a claim is made pursuant to
section
15-7-7 of this chapter for an exemption from the tax imposed by this chapter.
(Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013; amd. Ord. M-7-22, 2-7-2022)
15-7-15: RESERVED
15-7-16: INSPECTION OF NONOWNER OCCUPIED PROPERTY PRIOR TO SALE OR TRANSFER;
ORDER OF COMPLIANCE:
No transfer tax stamp or exemption mark will be issued for nonowner occupied
residential real estate unless and until the department of community and
economic development has inspected the structure(s) on the property and either
determined the property is in compliance with the city code or has obtained a
compliance order, prepared by the City, signed by the purchaser/grantee in
accordance with this section.
   A.   Notice Of Transfer Required: Any person owning nonowner occupied real
estate improved with a building or structure, within the city, or agent acting
on behalf of any person owning nonowner occupied, improved real estate within
the city, shall notify the finance department, in writing, of any proposed
sale, once property is listed or offered for sale, or once a closing date has
been established, or other transfer of the legal or beneficial interest of said
improved real estate.
   B.   Inspection; Multiple Dwelling Units, Single-Family Nonowner Occupied:
Upon receipt of the notice provided for in subsection A of this section, the
department of community and economic development shall, as soon as practical
but no later than 10 business days after such notice, cause an inspection to be
made of the structure located on said real estate to determine (i) the status
of any open permits or open complaints, and (ii) if the structure is in
compliance with all City ordinances. If after the inspection, the department of
community and economic development determines that there are outstanding
violations of the city code or uncompleted work under an open permit, the
department will prepare a compliance order setting forth the work that must be
completed in order to bring the property into compliance with the city code.
   C.   Notice, Correction Of Deficiency; Multiple Dwelling Units, Single-
Family Nonowner Occupied: Upon making the inspection required under this
chapter, the department of community and economic development shall, if defects
are found in said building or structure or if work remains uncompleted under an
open permit, notify the owner thereof of such defects. No transfer stamp or
exemption mark shall be issued until all defects are corrected; provided,
however, that, in lieu of compliance the department of community and economic
development may accept a compliance order, prepared by the city and signed by
the purchaser or grantee, accepting responsibility for the defects and the work
that must be completed in order to bring the property into compliance, and
agreeing to bring the property into compliance by a specific deadline .
   D.   Violations:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person owning any nonowner occupied,
improved real estate within the city to offer to sell or to transfer title of
such real estate for sale or other transfer without complying with the
provisions of this code.
      2.   All persons acquiring an ownership interest in such real property
become responsible for the correction of all violations existing on such
property.
   E.   City Liability:
      1.   The city does not guarantee the condition of the subject property
and is not responsible for any claims arising out of the subject property of
the condition thereof. The city does not warrant that all deficiencies are
listed in the compliance order and does not warrant anything as to the
condition of the property or liability thereof.
      2.   The issuance of a transfer stamp or exemption mark is not a waiver
of a right to prosecute violations of this code.
   F.   Fee for Inspection: The following fee shall be paid for each inspection
made in connection with the issuance of a transfer stamp:
      1.   Existing nonowner occupied, single-family property, apartments,
condominiums, townhouses, and any other form of multiple-family units, per
unit: Twenty five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013; amd. Ord. M-7-22,
2- 7-2022)
   G.   Penalty For Violation: Any person who makes a late payment of the tax
required by this chapter, fails to pay the tax required by this chapter,
willfully falsifies the full value of the property transfer on the real estate
transfer declaration, willfully omits any other information required by this
chapter, willfully and falsely claims a transaction to be exempt under Section
15-7-7, or violates any other provision of this Chapter shall be subject to a
minimum penalty of two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) and a maximum
penalty of seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013;
amd. Ord. M-7-22, 2-7-2022)
CHAPTER 8
MOTOR FUEL TAX
SECTION:
15-8-1: Definitions
15-8-2: Tax Imposed
15-8-3: Collection Of Tax
15-8-4: Registration And Maintenance Of Records
15-8-5: Effective Date
15-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
COMPRESSED NATURAL GAS: All combustible gases included within the definition of
"combustible gases" set forth in section 5 of the Illinois motor fuel tax law,
35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 505/5.
GALLON: As a liquid measurement, a gallon is equal to four (4) quarts or 3.785
liters. As a compressed natural gas measurement, a gallon is equal to: a)
126.67 cubic feet of natural gas at sixty degrees Fahrenheit (60°F) and one
atmosphere of pressure, or b) alternatively, a quantity of compressed natural
gas that weighs 5.66 pounds.
MOTOR FUEL: All volatile and inflammable liquids produced, blended, compounded
or used for fueling and propelling motor vehicles, including gasoline, gasohol,
diesel fuel, and compressed natural gas.
MOTOR FUEL RETAILER: Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of
selling motor fuel or compressed natural gas at retail, and not for resale.
(Ord. M-2-16, 3-7-2016)
15-8-2: TAX IMPOSED:
Effective January 1, 2015, there is hereby imposed and levied a tax upon the
retail purchase within the city of motor fuel, at the rate of seven cents
($0.07) per gallon or fraction thereof. This tax shall be in addition to any
and all other taxes. The ultimate incidence and liability for payment of such
tax shall be upon the retail purchaser of motor fuel. Nothing herein shall be
construed to impose a tax upon the occupation of motor fuel retailer. Said tax
shall be earmarked for the capital projects fund. (Ord. M-2-16, 3-7-2016; amd.
Ord. M-47-19, 12-2-2019)
15-8-3: COLLECTION OF TAX:
Each motor fuel retailer in the city shall have the duty to collect the motor
fuel tax from each purchaser and to pay it over to the city, along with an
accounting therefor, on return forms provided by the city. The return and tax
payment shall be filed with the director of finance and administrative services
on the same filing dates as are established for filing with the Illinois
department of revenue of the retailers' occupations tax return form RR-1-A.
(Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-8-4: REGISTRATION AND MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS:
Each motor fuel retailer shall register with the city on forms provided by the
director of finance and administrative services. Each motor fuel retailer shall
have the duty to maintain complete and accurate books, records and accounts
showing the gross receipts for the sale of motor fuel and the taxes collected
from the purchaser thereof, which shall be available in the city for
examination and for audit by the city upon reasonable notice during customary
business hours. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-8-5: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The effective date for this chapter is January 1, 2010. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-
2013)
CHAPTER 9
FOOD AND BEVERAGE TAX
SECTION:
15-9-1: Definitions
15-9-2: Imposition Of Tax
15-9-3: Collection Of Tax By Retailer
15-9-4: Books And Records
15-9-5: Transmittal Of Tax Collection
15-9-6: Late Payment Penalty
15-9-7: Transmittal Of Excess Tax Collection
15-9-8: Enforcement, License Suspension, Revocation
15-9-9: Penalty
15-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following words or terms shall have the meanings respectively applied to them:
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Spirits, wine, beer, ale or other liquid containing more than
one-half of one percent (0.5%) of alcohol by volume, which is fit for beverage
purposes.
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR FACILITY: Any establishment licensed under the provisions of
title 4 of this code and that sells alcoholic liquor at retail.
PERSON: Any individual, firm or corporation, representative, or entity.
PREPARED FOOD: A.Means and includes any solid, liquid (including both alcoholic
and nonalcoholic liquid), powder or item used or intended to be used for human
internal consumption, whether simple, compound or mixed and which has been
prepared for immediate consumption.
B."Prepared food" may be purchased for consumption within or upon the premises
where it is sold or it may be purchased for consumption off the premises where
it is sold. "Prepared food" does not mean or include any food which is sold in
a closed or sealed bottle, can, carton or container of the manufacturer or
wholesaler or which has not been prepared for immediate consumption.
PREPARED FOOD FACILITY: A.Any person or establishment subject to licensing
pursuant to title 4 of this code which sells at retail food which has been
prepared for immediate consumption and whether or not such prepared food
facility use is conducted along with any other use(s) in a common premises or
business establishment.
B.A "prepared food facility" includes, but is not limited to, those
establishments commonly called an inn, restaurant, eating place, drive-in
restaurant, buffet, bakery, cafeteria, cafe, lunch counter, fast food outlet,
catering service, coffee shop, diner, sandwich shop, soda fountain, tavern,
bar, cocktail lounge, soft drink parlor, ice cream parlor, tearoom,
delicatessen, movie theater, mobile food or beverage or ice cream vehicle,
hotel, motel, or club, or any other establishment which sells at retail food
which has been prepared for immediate consumption.
C.A "prepared food facility" does not include churches, public or private
schools, boarding houses, daycare centers, nursing homes, retirement centers or
similar residential care facilities, or programs for the central preparation of
meals to be delivered and consumed at private residences of invalids or the
elderly, or other facilities of not for profit associations or corporations.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: To obtain for use or consumption in exchange for
consideration, whether in the form of money, credits, barter or any other
nature, and not for resale.
RETAILER: Any person who sells or offers for sale, for use or consumption and
not for resale. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-9-2: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
Effective as of January 1, 2002, a tax, in addition to any and all other taxes,
is imposed upon the purchase of prepared foods and alcoholic liquor at retail
at any prepared food facility or alcoholic liquor facility within the city, at
a rate of one percent (1.0%) of the purchase price of such prepared food and
alcoholic liquor, the ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of which
shall be borne by the purchaser thereof. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-9-3: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER:
The owner and the operator of each prepared food facility and each alcoholic
liquor facility within the city shall jointly and severally, have the duty to
collect and account for said tax from each purchaser at the time that the
consideration for such purchase is paid. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-9-4: BOOKS AND RECORDS:
The owner and the operator of each prepared food facility and each alcoholic
liquor facility within the city shall jointly and severally have the duty to
maintain complete and accurate books, records, and accounts showing the gross
receipts for sales of prepared food and alcoholic liquor and the taxes
collected each day, which shall be made available to the city for examination
and for audit by the city upon reasonable notice and during customary business
hours. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-9-5: TRANSMITTAL OF TAX COLLECTION:
The owner and the operator of each prepared food facility and each alcoholic
liquor facility within the city shall jointly and severally, have the duty to
cause to be filed a sworn return with the finance director for each such
facility and for each such licensed premises located in the city. Said return
shall be prepared and submitted on forms prescribed by the city. Said return
shall be filed with the city by the filing date and at the same time intervals
or frequencies as the retailers' occupation tax return, form ST-1 is due to be
filed with the Illinois department of revenue. Said return shall also be
accompanied by payment to the city of all taxes imposed by this chapter which
are due and owing for the period covered by said return. Said return shall also
be accompanied with a copy of the return filed with the Illinois department of
revenue for sales within the city of Des Plaines covering the same reporting
period. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-9-6: LATE PAYMENT PENALTY:
If any tax imposed by this chapter is not paid when due a late payment penalty
as set forth in
title 1, chapter 15 of this code shall apply. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-9-7: TRANSMITTAL OF EXCESS TAX COLLECTION:
If any person collects an amount upon a sale not subject to the tax imposed
hereby but which amount is purported to be the collection of said tax, or if a
person collects an amount upon a sale greater than the amount of the tax so
imposed herein and does not for any reason return the same to the purchaser who
paid the same before filing the return for the period in which such occurred,
said person shall account for and pay over those amounts to the city along with
the tax properly collected. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-9-8: ENFORCEMENT, LICENSE SUSPENSION, REVOCATION:
Payment and collection of said tax and any payment penalty may be enforced by
action in any court of competent jurisdiction and failure to collect, account
for and pay over said tax shall be cause for suspension or revocation of any
city license issued for such prepared food facility or alcoholic liquor
facility applicable to the premises thereof, all in addition to any other
penalties in this chapter. Such suspension and revocation shall take place as
follows:
The finance director or his designee shall notify the licensee in writing that
if all violations of these provisions are not cured within seventy two (72)
hours, that such license shall be suspended for a period of thirty (30) days or
until all violations are cured, whichever comes first. If all violations are
not cured within the thirty (30) day time period, the license shall be
automatically revoked and may be reinstated only upon all violations being
cured and upon the applicant proceeding as if a new license were being sought.
The licensee shall have seventy two (72) hours from the time of the receipt of
the aforesaid notice to appeal this suspension. In the case of a licensee
possessing a business license for prepared food only, said appeal shall be to
the city manager. In the case of a licensee holding a liquor license, said
appeal shall be to the local liquor control commissioner. A hearing shall be
had on the appeal within ten (10) days of the filing of the request for appeal.
The only issue to be determined by the official hearing of the appeal is
whether or not violations of these provisions have occurred. If the official
hearing the appeal is convinced by a preponderance of the evidence that a
violation has occurred, then the suspension and revocation portions of this
enforcement section shall be mandatory. No stays may be issued pending an
appeal and no extensions of time may be granted as a result on an appeal. (Ord.
M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-9-9: PENALTY:
Any person found guilty of operating a prepared food facility or an alcoholic
liquor facility within the city after being given notice of an order of
suspension or revocation, shall pay a mandatory fine as per
title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
CHAPTER 10
MUNICIPAL GAS USE TAX
SECTION:
15-10-1: Short Title
15-10-2: Definitions
15-10-3: Tax
15-10-4: Collection Of Tax
15-10-1: SHORT TITLE:
The tax imposed by this chapter shall be known as the MUNICIPAL GAS USE TAX and
is imposed in addition to all other taxes imposed by the city of Des Plaines,
the state of Illinois, or any other municipal corporation or political
subdivision thereof. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
PERSON: Any individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association, joint
stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of this state, or a receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
PUBLIC UTILITIES ACT: The public utilities act 1
as amended.
PUBLIC UTILITY: A public utility as defined in section 3-105 of the public
utilities act.
RETAIL PURCHASER: Any person who purchases gas in a sale at retail.
SALE AT RETAIL: Any sale of gas by a retailer to a person for use or
consumption, and not for resale. For this purpose, the term "retailer" means
any person engaged in the business of distribution, supplying, furnishing or
selling gas. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.
15-10-3: TAX:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided by this chapter a tax is imposed on the
privilege of using or consuming gas in the city that is purchased in a sale at
retail at the rate of 2.5 cents per therm.
   B.   The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of the tax is on
the retail purchaser, and nothing in this chapter shall be construed to impose
a tax on the occupation of distributing, supplying, furnishing, selling or
transporting gas.
   C.   The retail purchaser shall pay the tax, measured by therms of gas
delivered to the retail purchaser's premises, to the public utility designated
to collect the tax pursuant to section
15-10-4 of this chapter on or before the payment due date of the public
utility's bill first reflecting the tax, or directly to the director of finance
on or before the last day of the month following the month which the gas is
delivered to the retail purchaser if no public utility has been designated to
collect the tax pursuant to section
15-10-4 of this chapter or if the gas is delivered by a person other than a
public utility so designated.
   D.   A purchaser who purchases gas for resale and therefore does not pay the
tax imposed by this chapter with respect to the use or consumption of the gas,
but who later uses or consumes part or all of the gas, shall pay the tax
directly to the director of finance on or before the last day of the month
following the month in which the gas is used or consumed.
   E.   The tax shall apply to gas for which the delivery to the retail
purchaser is billed by a public utility on or after August 1, 2002.
   F.   To prevent multiple taxation, the use of gas in the city by a retail
purchaser shall be exempt from the tax imposed by this chapter if the gross
receipts from the sale at retail of such gas to the retail purchaser are
properly subject to a tax imposed upon the seller of such gas pursuant to the
city's municipal utility tax, as amended from time to time, chapter 3 of this
title, authorized pursuant to section 8-11-2 of the Illinois municipal code 1
. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2 (2000).
15-10-4: COLLECTION OF TAX:
   A.   The director of finance is authorized to enter into a contract for
collection of the tax imposed by this chapter with any public utility providing
gas service in the city. The contract shall include and substantially conform
with the following provisions:
      1.   The public utility will collect the tax with respect to gas
delivered by it to its customers as an independent contractor;
      2.   The public utility will remit collected taxes to the director of
finance no more often than once each month;
      3.   The public utility will be entitled to withhold from tax collections
a service fee not to exceed three percent (3%) of the amounts collected and
timely remitted to the director of finance;
      4.   The public utility shall not be liable to the city for any tax not
actually collected from a retail purchaser; and
      5.   Such additional terms as the parties may agree upon.
   B.   A public utility designated to collect the tax imposed by this chapter
from its customers shall bill each customer for the tax on all gas delivered to
the customer unless: 1) the customer's use or consumption is exempt from the
tax pursuant to a duly passed and authorized ordinance of the city, or 2) the
public utility has received written notification from the city that the
customer is exempt from the tax. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
CHAPTER 11
SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
SECTION:
15-11-1: Adopted; Tax Rate
15-11-2: Collection Of Tax
15-11-1: ADOPTED; TAX RATE:
The simplified municipal telecommunications tax act 1
is incorporated and adopted herein by reference as the Des Plaines simplified
municipal telecommunications tax. Effective for all gross charges billed by
telecommunications retailers on and after July 1, 2007, the rate of the
simplified municipal telecommunications tax imposed under the authority of the
act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving in the
municipality intrastate or interstate telecommunications by a person is hereby
changed to six percent (6%) of the gross charges for such telecommunications
purchased at retail. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 636/5-1 et seq.
15-11-2: COLLECTION OF TAX:
The tax hereby imposed shall be collected and enforced by the department of
revenue of the state of Illinois. The Illinois department of revenue shall have
full power to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any
amendment to the simplified municipal telecommunications tax act that becomes
effective after the effective date hereof shall be incorporated into this
section by reference without formal action by the corporate authorities of the
city.
A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all of the following acts or privileges:
   A.   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving in
the municipality intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of six
percent (6%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at
retail from a retailer.
   B.   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving in
the municipality interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of six
percent (6%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at
retail from a retailer. To prevent actual multistate taxation of the act or
privilege that is subject to taxation under this subsection, any taxpayer, upon
proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another state on such event, shall be
allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this
section to the extent of the amount of such tax properly due and paid in such
other state which was not previously allowed as a credit against any other
state or local tax in this state 1
.
   C.   The tax imposed by this chapter is not imposed on such act or privilege
to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the constitution and
statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the
municipality. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
 
Notes
  1. For multi-municipal taxation of the act or privilege and credits allowed,
1 the provisions of 35 ILCS 636/5-10 are specifically incorporated herein by
  reference.
CHAPTER 12
CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER AND PUBLIC, GOVERNMENTAL, AND EDUCATIONAL ACCESS
SUPPORT FEES
SECTION:
15-12-1: Definitions
15-12-2: Cable/Video Service Provider Fee Imposed
15-12-3: PEG Access Support Fee Imposed
15-12-4: Applicable Principles
15-12-5: No Impact On Other Taxes Due From Holder
15-12-6: Audits Of Cable/Video Service Provider
15-12-7: Late Fees/Payments
15-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC section 522(6).
COMMISSION: The Illinois commerce commission.
GROSS REVENUES: All consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property, and in- kind contributions received by the
holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable service or
video service within the holder's cable service or video service area within
the city.
   A.   Gross revenues shall include the following:
      1.   Recurring charges for cable or video service.
      2.   Event based charges for cable service or video service, including,
but not limited to, pay per view and video on demand charges.
      3.   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment.
      4.   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or video
service, including, but not limited to, activation, installation, and repair
charges.
      5.   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including, but not limited to, service order and service
termination charges.
      6.   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges, and
other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent payments.
      7.   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service within the
city. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the city
divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant regional
or national compensation arrangement.
      8.   Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the
operation of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service
with respect to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the holder's network,
such as a "home shopping" or similar channel, subject to 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-801(c)(1)(ix).
      9.   In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled or
integrated functionally with other services, capabilities, or applications, the
portion of the holder's revenue attributable to the other services,
capabilities, or applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the
holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business.
      10.   The service provider fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-801(b).
   B.   Gross revenues do not include any of the following:
      1.   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt,
subject to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi).
      2.   Refunds, discounts, or other price adjustments that reduce the
amount of gross revenues received by the holder of the state issued
authorization to the extent the refund, rebate, credit, or discount is
attributable to cable service or video service.
      3.   Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable service or video service,
including, without limitation, revenue received from telecommunication
services, information services, or the provision of directory or internet
advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement, and
electronic publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder to
noncable service or nonvideo service in accordance with the holder's books and
records and records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable
laws, rules, regulations, standards, or orders.
      4.   The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which the
purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the purchaser's
subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that it will
resell the service within the city and pay the fee permitted by 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b) with respect to the service.
      5.   Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the subscribers
or the transaction by a city, state, federal, or any other governmental entity
and collected by the holder of the state issued authorization and required to
be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales and use taxes.
      6.   Security deposits collected from subscribers.
      7.   Amounts paid by subscribers to "home shopping" or similar vendors
for merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part of the
cable service or video service.
   C.   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of gross revenues to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b)
which would otherwise be paid by the cable service or video service.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the commission pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-401.
PEG: Public, education and governmental.
PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE: The amount paid pursuant to this Chapter and 220 ILCS
5/21-801 by the holder to the City for the service areas within its territorial
jurisdiction.
SERVICE: The provision of "cable service" or "video service" to subscribers and
the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the commission
pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
SERVICE PROVIDER FEE: The amount paid under this chapter and 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801 by the holder to a city for the service areas within
its territorial jurisdiction.
VIDEO SERVICE: Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and which
is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the public
right of way without regard to delivery technology, including internet protocol
technology. This definition does not include any video programming provided by
a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 USC section 332(d) or any
video programming provided solely as part of, and via, service that enables
users to access content, information, electronic mail, or other services
offered over the public internet. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013; amd. Ord. M-15-21,
10-18-2021)
15-12-2: CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE IMPOSED:
   A.   Fee Imposed: A fee is hereby imposed on any holder providing cable
service or video service in the city.
   B.   Amount Of Fee: The amount of the fee imposed hereby shall be five
percent (5%) of the holder's gross revenues.
   C.   Notice To The city: The holder shall notify the city at least ten (10)
days prior to the date on which the holder begins to offer cable service or
video service in the city.
   D.   Holder's Liability: The holder shall be liable for and pay the service
provider fee to the city. The holder's liability for the fee shall commence on
the first day of the calendar month following thirty (30) days after receipt of
the ordinance adopting this chapter by the holder. The ordinance adopting this
chapter shall be sent by mail, postage prepaid, to the address listed on the
holder's application notice sent pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
21-401(b)(6) to the city.
   E.   Payment Date: The payment of the service provider fee shall be due on a
quarterly basis, forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar quarter.
If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each
payment shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of
the fee.
   F.   Exemption: The fee hereby imposed does not apply to existing cable
service or video service providers that have an existing franchise agreement
with the city in which a fee is paid.
   G.   Credit For Other Payments: An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
21-301(c) with credit for prepaid franchise fees under that agreement may
deduct the amount of such credit from the fees that operator owes under
subsection B of this section. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013)
15-12-3: PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE IMPOSED:
   A.   PEG Access Support Fee Imposed. A PEG access support fee is imposed on
any holder providing cable service or video service in the City in addition to
the fee imposed pursuant to Section
15-12-2 of this Chapter.
   B.   Amount of Fee. The amount of the PEG access support fee imposed
pursuant to this section
15-12-3 is one percent (1%) of the holder's gross revenues or up to thirty-five
cents ($0.35) per subscriber per month where such amount is greater than one
(1) percent of the holder's gross revenues.
   C.   Payment. The holder must pay the PEG access support fee to the City or
to the entity designated by the City to manage PEG access.   
   D.   Payment Date. The payment of the PEG access support fee is due on a
quarterly basis, 45 days after the close of the calendar quarter. If mailed,
the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each payment must
include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of the fee.
   E.   Credit for the Other Payments. An incumbent cable operator that elects
to terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-301(C) must pay,
at the time they would have been due, all monetary payments for PEG access that
would have been due during the remaining term of the agreement had it not been
terminated pursuant to that section. All payments made by an incumbent cable
operator pursuant to the previous sentence may be credited against the fees
that that operator owes pursuant to Section
15-12-3(B) of this Chapter. (Ord. M-15-21, 10-18-2021)
15-12-4: APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES:
All determinations and calculations under this chapter shall be made pursuant
to generally accepted accounting principles. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013; amd.
Ord. M-15-21, 10-18-2021)
15-12-5: NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to exempt a holder from
any tax that is or may later be imposed by the city, including any tax that is
or may later be required to be paid by or through the holder with respect to
cable service or video service. A state issued authorization shall not affect
any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the city's simplified
municipal telecommunications tax or any other tax as it applies to any
telephone service provided by the holder. A state issued authorization shall
not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the local
unit of government's 911 or E911 fees, taxes or charges. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-
2013; amd. Ord. M-15-21, 10-18-2021)
15-12-6: AUDITS OF CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER:
   A.   Audit Requirement: The city will notify the holder of the requirements
it imposes on other cable service or video service providers to submit to an
audit of its books and records. The holder shall comply with the same
requirements the city imposes on other cable service or video service providers
in its jurisdiction to audit the holder's books and records and to recompute
any amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the city. If all
local franchises between the city and cable operator terminate, the audit
requirements shall be those adopted by the city pursuant to the local
government taxpayers' bill of rights act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 45/1 et
seq. No acceptance of amounts remitted should be construed as an accord that
the amounts are correct.
   B.   Additional Payments: Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid within thirty (30) days after the municipality's submission of an invoice
for the sum. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-2013; amd. Ord. M-15-21, 10-18-2021)
15-12-7: LATE FEES/PAYMENTS:
All fees due and payments which are past due shall be governed by ordinances
adopted by this municipality pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill
of rights act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq. (Ord. M-19-13, 10-7-
2013; amd. Ord. M-15-21, 10-18-2021)
CHAPTER 13
MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
15-13-1: Definitions
15-13-2: Tax Imposed
15-13-3: Illinois Department Of Revenue To Administer
15-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following words or terms shall have the following
meanings:
 
          Marijuana, hashish, and other substances that are identified as including any
          parts of the plant Cannabis sativa and including derivatives or subspecies,
          such as indica, of all strains of cannabis, whether growing or not; the seeds
          thereof, the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and any compound,
          manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant, its seeds,
          or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other naturally produced
CANNABIS: cannabinol derivatives, whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction;
          however, “cannabis” does not include the mature stalks of the plant, fiber
          produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any
          other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the
          mature stalks (except the resin extracted from it), fiber, oil or cake, or the
          sterilized seed of the plant that is incapable of germination. “Cannabis” does
          not include industrial hemp as defined and authorized under the Industrial Hemp
          Act. “Cannabis” also means concentrate and cannabis-infused products.
 
15-13-2: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of Medical
Cannabis Program Act, at retail in this municipality at the rate of three
percent (3%) of the gross receipts from such cannabis sales made in the
municipality. The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and subject to
the provisions of section 8-11-23 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-
11-23). (Ord. M-52-19, 12-16-2019; amd. Ord. M-10-24, 6-3-2024)
15-13-3: ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE TO ADMINISTER:
The tax hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an
incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department of Revenue
of the State of Illinois. The Department of Revenue shall have full power to
administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. M-52-19, 12-16-
2019; amd. Ord. M-10-24, 6-3-2024)
