DEWITT COUNTY, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-11 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance passed 10-24-2024
and Resolution passed 11-21-2024; and
State legislation current through 2024 Illinois Legislative Service Pamphlet #5
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for DeWitt County, Illinois, shall be designated as
the Code of DeWitt County and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons, but also every other owner of
property.
   COUNTY. DeWitt County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of DeWitt County, Illinois.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.07)
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of that officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.08)
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER. HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at any
time after that date.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, of the state or of any town or county of the state, and all
bridges thereupon.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.12)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals. (ILCS
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property, except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
county, state or federal governments, officers and agencies thereof, or any
commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The county code hereby adopted, and as
hereinafter modified by amendment, revision and by the adoption of new titles,
chapters or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in § 1 of Article VII of
the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.28)
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law,
except as otherwise provided by law, it shall be:
      (1)   The proper handwriting of that person or, in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or
      (2)   An electronic signature as defined in the Uniform Electronic
Transactions Act, except as otherwise provided by law
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord”.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday or
Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the President
and Board may be fully carried out.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, in so far as they are the same as
those of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions and not as a new enactment.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 2)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the county shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) of this section:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context clearly
indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was not
intended.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of these codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or, in any
way, affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system
of this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections and divisions, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of ordinances by the
Board.
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application and, to this end, the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the county exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. These references
shall also include the designee or agent of the officer or office, unless the
law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
word or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the
intention of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no
meaning can be attached or the use of a word or words when another word or
words was clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be
corrected and the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will
conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same
effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as originally
published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to, tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the county; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance, by its nature, either authorizes or enables the Board
or a certain county officer or employee to make additional regulations for the
purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all regulations of a
similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the codification and not
inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   (A)   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to the technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the county.
   (B)   Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text of the
section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-2-1)
   (C)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text
of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   The county shall make available to any person for inspection or copying all
public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information Act.
   Statutory reference:
      Freedom of Information Act, see ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, §§ 1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this code or other ordinance of the
county, for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be fined
not more than $750 for each and every violation thereof, and every day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COUNTY BOARD MEMBERS
      
31.   COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   ETHICS POLICY
      
33.   JUDICIAL; COUNTY COURT
      
34.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY AND PLAN
      
35.   TAXATION AND FINANCE
      
36.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
37.   COUNTY POLICIES
      
38.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
39.   ADMINISTRATIVE TICKETS
CHAPTER 30: COUNTY BOARD MEMBERS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Reapportionment of county for election of County Board by districts
   
30.02   Chairperson
   
30.03   Compensation
   
30.04   Statutory authority
   
30.05   Alternative organization of County Board without committees
   
30.06   Publication of audio files
Rules of Procedure
   
30.15   Rules on meeting procedure
   
30.16   Order of business
   
30.17   Public comments to the Board and its committees
   
30.18   Conflict with Robert’s Rules of Order
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 REAPPORTIONMENT OF COUNTY FOR ELECTION OF COUNTY BOARD BY DISTRICTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of electing members of the County Board, the county is
reapportioned into four Districts with three Board members to be elected from
each district, the Districts described as follows.
      (1)   District A shall consist of Clintonia Township Precincts 1, 2,
Waynesville, Wapella, Barnett and Tunbridge Townships in the County of DeWitt
and State of Illinois;
      (2)   District B shall consist of the townships of Wilson, Harp, DeWitt,
Nixon, Rutledge and Santa Anna in the County of DeWitt and State of Illinois;
      (3)   District C shall consist of Clintonia Township Precincts 7, 8, 9,
Texas and Creek Townships in the County of DeWitt and State of Illinois; and
      (4)   District D shall consist of Clintonia Township Precincts 3, 4, 5
and 6.
   (B)   The County Board shall be comprised of 12 members and shall be elected
by aforementioned County Board Districts in compliance with the election code
of the state.
   (C)   The County Board shall meet on the third Thursday after the first
Monday at the county building at 6:00 p.m.
   (D)   The County Board members are required to follow the duties of the
county boards, as enumerated in ILCS Ch. 55.
(Prior Code, § 30.01) (Res. passed 6-14-1971; Res. passed 6-9-1981; Res. passed
5-16-1991; Res. passed 10-15-1998; Res. passed 4-12-2001; Res. passed 12-4-
2006; Res. passed 5-19-2011; Res. passed 12-5-2016; Res. 2021-10, passed 10-28-
2021)
§ 30.02 CHAIRPERSON.
   (A)   The County Board shall elect a Chairperson at the first meeting on the
first Monday of December, the Chairperson to be elected from among the duly
elected members of the Board as constituted by the terms of this subchapter,
the Chairperson to be elected for a two-year term and to receive compensation
on per diem basis for regular and special meetings and for committee meetings,
and in addition thereto, to receive mileage allowance as fixed by statute or as
is determined by the Board.
   (B)   All committees are appointed by the Chairperson with the approval of
the other members of the Board.
   (C)   The Office of Chairperson becomes vacant when the officeholder:
      (1)   Resigns;
      (2)   Dies;
      (3)   Becomes legally disabled; or
      (4)   Moves from the county or district from which he or she was elected
to the County Board.
   (D)   When a vacancy occurs, the County Board is obligated to elect one of
its members to serve for the balance of the Chairperson’s unexpired term.
   (E)   The Chairperson shall preside at meetings. If absent, the Vice
Chairperson shall preside. If both are absent, the members shall choose one of
themselves as temporary Chairperson.
   (F)   (1)   The Chairperson of the County Board shall be paid a yearly
salary of $5,000; in addition thereto, the Chairperson of the County Board
shall receive:
         (a)   From 12-1-2012 through 11-30-2015: $71 per meeting.
         (b)   From 12-1-2015 through 1-30-2019: $80 per meeting.
         (c)   From 12-1-2019 through 11-30-2022: $87 per meeting.
         (d)   From 12-1-2022 through 11-30-2032: $87 per meeting.
      (2)    Further, the Chairperson of the County Board shall receive $0.25
per mile for travel on county business.
   (G)   The Chairperson may appoint a Parliamentarian, as provided by Robert’s
Rules of Order.
(Prior Code, § 30.03) (Res. passed 6-14-1971; Res. passed 10-15-1998; Res.
passed 9-13-2001; Res. passed 12-4-2006; Meeting minutes, passed 4-19-2012;
Res. 2021-08, passed 5-20-2021)
§ 30.03 COMPENSATION
   (A)   All members of the County Board taking office shall be paid for the
next ten years an annual salary of $1,000; in addition thereto, each member of
the County Board shall be paid:
      (1)   From 12-1-2012 through 11-30-2015: $71 per meeting.
      (2)   From 12-1-2015 through 11-30-2019: $80 per meeting.
      (3)   From 12-1-2019 through 11-30-2022: $87 per meeting.
      (4)   From 12-1-2022 through 11- 30-2032: $87 per meeting.
   (B)   Each member of the County Board shall be reimbursed the sum of $0.25
per mile for travel expenses on county business.
(Prior Code, § 30.04) (Res. passed 10-15-1998; Res. passed 9-13-2001; Meeting
minutes, passed 4-19-2012; Res. 2021-08, passed 5-20-2021)
§ 30.04 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   The County Board elected here pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter
shall have authority to determine from time to time all terms and provisions
hereof in accord with its collective judgement; provided that, any other matter
related hereto which may be considered for change by the Board may be changed
pursuant to the statutory authority of the state.
(Prior Code, § 30.05) (Res. passed 10-12-1982)
§ 30.05 ALTERNATIVE ORGANIZATION OF COUNTY BOARD WITHOUT COMMITTEES.
   In the absence of appointing members to committees, commissions, boards or
other organizational structures of the Board following the procedures and
committee structure specified in §
30.02 of this chapter or by majority vote of the current members of the Board,
the Board may organize without the committees, commission, boards and other
organizational structures as specified in §
30.02. Under this option, the following alternative interpretations are to be
applied to the various sections, subsections and chapter of the DeWitt County
Code.
   (A)   Any and all powers, responsibilities, authorities, functions or other
references specified in the various sections of the DeWitt County Code for any
committee, commission, board or other organizational entity of the Board shall
be vested solely with and applied to the Board.
   (B)   Any and all power, responsibilities, authorities, functions or other
references to a chairman, chairwoman, chairperson or other head of a committee,
commission, board or other organization entity of the Board shall be vested to
the County Board Chairperson or his or her designee.
   (C)   The provisions of divisions (A) and (B) shall not preclude the
Chairperson of the Board from appointing ad hoc committees, commissions, boards
or other organization entities from time to time as deemed appropriate by the
Chairperson with the advice and consent of the majority of the Board. Any such
appointments shall be made by the Chairperson with the advice and consent of
the majority of the Board.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to committees, commissions, boards or
other organizational entities that are not solely composed of members of the
Board.
(Ord. passed 12-6-2012)
§ 30.06 PUBLICATION OF AUDIO FILES.
   (A)   Audio files of DeWitt County Board meetings shall be posted on the
DeWitt County website in a commonly accepted format within five business days
after each Board meeting. Said audio files shall be maintained on the website
in a user-friendly format for a period of five years unless otherwise provided
by the Board. The publication of a video file containing corresponding audio
shall satisfy the requirements of this section.
   (B)   This section does not extend to audio of closed or executive sessions
or any sessions where such publication would be prohibited by law. Such audio
file(s) shall be excluded from publication.
   (C)   The Executive Administrative Assistant to the DeWitt County Board
shall have the authority to implement the directives of division (A) above,
including communications and consultations with the "webmaster" or "host" of
the DeWitt County website.
(Ord. passed 2-20-2014)
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 30.15 RULES ON MEETING PROCEDURE.
   The meetings of the County Board shall be conducted as follows.
   (A)   All questions relating to the priority of business shall be decided
without debate.
   (B)   The Chairperson shall preserve order and decide questions of order,
subject to an appeal to the Board, without debate.
   (C)   Every member, previous to his or her speaking, shall address the
Chair.
   (D)   When two or more members shall address the Chair at the same time the
Chair shall name the member who is first to speak.
   (E)   No member or anyone present shall speak more than twice on the same
subject without the consent of the Board and shall not occupy more than ten
minutes the first time, nor more than five minutes the second time.
   (F)   A member or anyone addressing the Board may be called to order by the
Chair and the person so called to order shall immediately take his or her seat
and, if there is no appeal, the decision of the Chair shall be conclusive.
   (G)   Every member present upon the putting of a question shall vote thereon
unless excused by the Board, or unless he or she is personally interested to
the extent that a conflict of interest is evident. The Chairperson shall vote
on any issue.
   (H)   No motion shall be debated on unless put first, seconded. When the
motion is seconded, it shall be stated by the Chair before debated, and every
motion shall be reduced to writing if required by the Chair or any member of
the Board. Any motion of amendment or any motion shall be voted on by the Board
prior to voting on amended motion.
   (I)   A motion to adjourn shall always be in order and shall be decided
without debate.
   (J)   No alterations shall be made in any of these rules of the Board
without the consent of the majority of the members thereof, nor without one
day’s notice being given of the motion thereof.
   (K)   After a motion is stated by the Chairperson or read by the County
Clerk, it shall be deemed to be in possession of the Board, but it may be
withdrawn by the mover at any time before the decision.
   (L)   Executive session minutes shall be reviewed twice a year by the
State’s Attorney, Administrative Assistant to the County Board, County Clerk
and the Vice Chairperson of the County Board.
   (M)   All correspondence representing the County Board shall be prepared by
the Administrative Assistant and signed by the County Board Chairperson or Vice
Chairperson.
(Prior Code, § 30.20) (Motion carried 12-17-1984; Res. passed 3-12-1998; Res.
passed 10-15-1998; Res. passed 2-15-2001)
§ 30.16 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The order of business shall be as follows:
   (A)   Call meeting to order;
   (B)   Pledge of Allegiance and invocation;
   (C)   Calling the roll;
   (D)   Reading and approval of minutes of the last meeting;
   (E)   Time for individuals to speak before the Board;
   (F)   Time for appointments to various boards and commissions;
   (G)   Read correspondence from various government bodies;
   (H)   Report of the following committees:
      (1)   Land Use and Development;
      (2)   Public Safety;
      (3)   Property;
      (4)   Road and Bridge;and
      (5)   Finance.
   (I)   Old business;
   (J)   New business; and
   (K)   Motion to adjourn.
(Prior Code, § 30.21) (Motion carried 12-17-1984; Ord. passed 1-17-1991; Ord.
passed 2-13-1997; Ord. passed 12-4-2006; Res. 24-9, passed 11-21- 2024)
§ 30.17 PUBLIC COMMENTS TO THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES.
   (A)   If a group or organization wishes to address the Board or its
committee only one person, chosen by the group/organization shall speak for the
group or organization.
   (B)   The person speaking during the public comment period shall provide his
or her name.
   (C)   The person speaking before the Board or committee is limited to five
minutes. This time may be extended at the discretion of the Chair.
   (D)   The public comment period shall be limited to 30 minutes at each Board
or committee meeting. This time may be extended at the discretion of the Chair.
   (E)   The Chair may curtail a speaker during the public comment period if
the speaker is repeating the same public comment made by that speaker or other
speakers to the Board or committee, regardless of if the repetition occurs at
the same or previous meetings.
   (F)   Any person may present writings or supporting documents and is
encouraged to provide at least enough copies for all Board or committee members
present, as well as a copy for the County Clerk.
   (G)   CHAIR is defined as the Chairman of the DeWitt County Board for full
Board meetings or the Chairman of a specific committee for DeWitt County
committee meetings. In the event that the Chair is not present, the person
acting as Chair shall exercise the discretion contained within this section.
(Res. 2011-5A, passed 9-22-2011; Res. passed 2-19-2015)
§ 30.18 CONFLICT WITH ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER.
   The County Board of DeWitt County, Illinois shall adhere to the rules of
parliamentary procedure as contained in Robert’s Rules of Order, with the most
recent edition of Robert’s Rules being controlling, and that in the event of a
conflict with any established law or ordinance such law or ordinance will take
precedence over Robert’s Rules of Order.
(Res. passed 2-19-2015)
CHAPTER 31: COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   County committees
   
31.02   Public Building Commission
   
31.03   Sheriff’s Office Merit Commission
   
31.04   Board of Health; home health services; fees; gifts and bequests
Law Enforcement
   
31.15   Number of Deputies permitted in Sheriff’s Department
   
31.16   State Police Training Act; participation
   
31.17   Positions of Chief Deputy and Jail Administrator created
   
31.18   False alarms resulting from automatic alarm systems
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 COUNTY COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The following committees shall be appointed by the County Chairperson.
      (1)   Public Safety. This Committee shall have a Chairperson and four
members. They will oversee E.M.A. Animal Control, Sheriff’s Department and the
Probation Department.
      (2)   Road and Bridge. This Committee shall have a Chairperson and four
members. They will oversee the Highway Department.
      (3)   Land Use and Development. This Committee shall have a Chairperson
and four members. They will oversee the Zoning and Planning Department.
      (4)   Property. This Committee shall have a Chairperson and four members.
They will oversee the Maintenance Department and county property.
      (5)   Finance. This Committee shall have a Chairperson and four members.
They will oversee all financial aspects of the county including establishing an
annual budget, reestablishment of positions and the like. They will oversee the
planning and policy procedure manual, serve as a suggestions committee and keep
contact with elected officials and department heads. They will also oversee
union negotiations, labor management and arbitration. This Committee will be
comprised of members representing each standing committee.
   (B)   All committees shall report in writing with the statement of acts and
their opinions thereon.
(Prior Code, § 30.06) (Res. passed 10-15-1998; Res. passed 12-17-1998; Res.
passed 4-24-2003; Res. passed 12-4-2006; Res. passed 12-1-2008; Res. 24-9,
passed 11-21-2024)
§ 31.02 PUBLIC BUILDING COMMISSION.
   The Board hereby disbands the County Public Building Commission and
authorizes the County Public Building Commission to return any funds remaining
in its accounts to the taxing entity that deposited in the account.
(Prior Code, § 31.01) (Res. passed 10-16-1997)
§ 31.03 SHERIFF’S OFFICE MERIT COMMISSION.
   (A)   A Merit Commission for Sheriff’s personnel is hereby established
pursuant to the terms and provisions of the Sheriff’s Merit System Act, as set
forth in ILCS Ch. 55, Act 115.
   (B)   The Sheriff’s Office Merit Commission shall consist of five members.
Members of the Commission shall receive $25 per diem compensation and shall be
allowed reimbursement for reasonably and necessary expenses.
(Prior Code, § 31.10) (Res. passed 10-13-1983; Motion carried 5-16-1991)
§ 31.04 BOARD OF HEALTH; HOME HEALTH SERVICES; FEES; GIFTS AND BEQUESTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOARD. The Board of Health of the county (or the Board of Health of
DeWitt-Piatt County Health Unit).
      DEPARTMENT. The County (or multiple-County) Health Department of the
County of DeWitt-Piatt.
      HOME HEALTH AGENCY or AGENCY. The Health Department of the County (or
multiple-county) of De Witt-Piatt which is responsible for providing the home
health service in accordance with the certification standards established by
the State Department of Public Health.
      HOME HEALTH SERVICE. Those items and services furnished to individuals,
under the care of a physician, on a visiting basis in a place of residence used
as an individual’s home. These services are provided by the home health agency
under a plan for furnishing the items and services to an individual,
established and periodically reviewed by the patient’s physician, and includes
part-time or intermittent nursing care provided by or under the supervision of
a registered professional nurse, and the services of one or more of the
following: physical, occupational or speech therapy, medical social work or
part-time or intermittent services of a home health aide.
   (B)   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 55, Act 5, §§ 5-25001 et seq., the Board of
Health is authorized to collect fees for service rendered by the home health
agency.
   (C)   The Board is authorized to:
      (1)   Accept gifts and bequests for the purpose of administering the home
health service program and to expend the gifts and bequests, or invest the
gifts and bequests and expend the income therefrom, for the maintenance of the
home health service; and
      (2)   Deposit all gifts and bequests received which are not otherwise
invested, the income from those gifts and bequests which are invested, and all
fees collected, in the County Health Fund to the credit of the home health
service.
(Prior Code, § 31.20) (Res. passed 6-27-1966)
LAW ENFORCEMENT
§ 31.15 NUMBER OF DEPUTIES PERMITTED IN SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Sheriff’s Department shall be allowed to have a maximum of 15
full-time deputies. The Sheriff may employ as many part-time deputies as he/she
sees fit in consideration of budgetary constraints.
   (B)   For purposes of jurisdiction, any deputy employed part time shall be
considered called upon to render aid within the entirety of DeWitt County at
all times regardless of being on shift at the DeWitt County Sheriff’s Office or
with his/her primary agency pursuant to ILCS Ch. 725, Act 5, § 107-4(a-3). Any
officer employed part time shall have authority as if he was a full time deputy
for purposes of jurisdiction, regardless of his current superior officer for
that shift and regardless of which law enforcement agency uniform he is
currently wearing.
(Prior Code, § 34.01) (Motion carried 1-11-1977; Res. passed 1-17-1991; Res.
passed 9-16-1993; Res. 2016-08, passed 12-22-2016)
§ 31.16 STATE POLICE TRAINING ACT; PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   The county hereby elects to participate in the program provided for in
the State Police Training Act, being ILCS Ch. 50, Act 705.
   (B)   Before an individual may commence regular employment as a police
officer, he or she must have been certified by the State Local Governmental Law
Enforcement Officers Training Board as having successfully completed an
approved training course as provided in the Act.
   (C)   This base training must be completed by the trainee within his
probationary period of six months.
(Prior Code, § 34.02) (Res. passed 2-14-1967)
§ 31.17 POSITIONS OF CHIEF DEPUTY AND JAIL ADMINISTRATOR CREATED.
   There are hereby created the positions of Chief Deputy and Jail
Administrator as non-merited positions, appointed by the Sheriff, and available
only to return to a previous merited status if a vacancy is available at the
time of leaving the position of Chief Deputy or Jail Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 34.03) (Motion carried 1-17-1991)
§ 31.18 FALSE ALARMS RESULTING FROM AUTOMATIC ALARM SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AUTOMATIC ALARM SYSTEMS. Any signaling device which is electronically
operated and which automatically sends visual and audible signals over a signal
line to be registered by indicators at a monitoring panel in a receiving
terminal at the County Sheriff’s office.
      AUTOMATIC ALARM SYSTEMS - FALSE ALARMS. The activation of an automatic
alarm system through mechanical failure, malfunction, improper installation or
the negligence of the owner or lessee of an automatic alarm system, or of his
or her agency or employees. AUTOMATION ALARM - FALSE ALARM does not include
alarm signals activated by violent conditions of nature, telephone line
interruptions, acts of God or other extraordinary circumstances not reasonably
subject to the control by the owner or lessee of an automatic alarm system.
   (B)   Automatic alarm system-false alarm service charge. Any owner or lessee
of an automatic alarm system shall be charged a service charge of $40 for each
automatic alarm system false alarm in excess of two in any one six-month
period.
(Prior Code, § 34.04) (Ord. passed 3-16-1995)
CHAPTER 32: ETHICS POLICY
Section
   
32.01   Definitions
   
32.02   Prohibited political activities
   
32.03   Gift ban
   
32.04   Ethics Advisor
   
32.05   Ethics Commission
 
   
32.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Personnel Policies, see
Ch. 38
§ 32.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANDIDATE. A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for
nomination or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill
a vacancy in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot
at a regular election, as defined in § 1-3 of the Election Code (ILCS Ch. 10,
Act 5, § 1-3).
   CHAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE. Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination or election of Presidential or Vice
Presidential electors, does not include activities:
      (1)   Relating to the support or opposition of any executive, legislative
or administrative action;
      (2)   Relating to collective bargaining; or
      (3)   That are otherwise in furtherance of the person’s official duties.
   COLLECTIVE BARGAINING. The same meaning as that term is defined in § 3 of
the State Public Labor Relations Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 315, § 3).
   COMPENSATED TIME. With respect to an employee, any time worked by or
credited to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement
imposed as a condition of his or her employment, but for the purposes of this
chapter, does not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal
time, compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of
absence. With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed,
COMPENSATED TIME includes any period of time when the officer is on premises
under the control of the employer and any other time when the officer or
employee is executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
   COMPENSATORY TIME OFF. Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an
employee to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the
minimum work time required of that employee as a condition of his or her
employment.
   CONTRIBUTION. The same meaning as that term is defined in § 9-1.4 of the
Election Code (ILCS Ch. 10, Act 5, § 9-1.4).
   EMPLOYEE. A person employed by the county, whether on a full-time or part-
time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the direction
and control of an employer with regard to the material details of how the work
is to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
   EMPLOYER. The County of DeWitt.
   GIFT. Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance
or other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
   LEAVE OF ABSENCE. Any period during which an employee does not receive:
      (1)   Compensation for employment;
      (2)   Service credit towards pension benefits; and
      (3)   Health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
   OFFICER. A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created
by statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
   POLITICAL ACTIVITY. Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities:
      (1)   Relating to the support or opposition for any executive,
legislative or administrative action;
      (2)   Relating to collective bargaining; or
      (3)   That are otherwise in furtherance of the person’s official duties.
   POLITICAL ORGANIZATION. A party, committee, association, fund or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the State Board of Elections or a County Clerk under § 9-
3 of the Election Code (ILCS Ch. 10, Act 5, § 9-3), but only with regard to
those activities that require filing with the State Board of Elections or a
County Clerk.
   PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
      (1)   Preparing for, organizing or participating in any political
meeting, political rally, political demonstration or other political event;
      (2)   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the
purchase of, selling, distributing or receiving payment for tickets for any
political fundraiser, political meeting or other political event;
      (3)   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of or preparing any document
or report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution;
      (4)   Planning, conducting or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question;
      (5)   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters
in an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question;
      (6)   Assisting at the polls on Election Day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question;
      (7)   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls;
      (8)   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question;
      (9)   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office
in that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office;
      (10)   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires;
      (11)   Distributing, preparing for distribution or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question;
      (12)   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any
referendum question;
      (13)   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or
against any referendum question;
      (14)   Serving as a delegate, alternate or proxy to a political party
convention; and
      (15)   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
   PROHIBITED SOURCE. Any person or entity who:
      (1)   Is seeking official action:
         (a)   By an officer; or
         (b)   By an employee, or by the officer or another employee directing
that employee.
      (2)   Does business or seeks to do business:
         (a)   With the officer; or
         (b)   With an employee, or with the officer or another employee
directing that employee.
      (3)   Conducts activities regulated:
         (a)   By the officer; or
         (b)   By an employee, or by the officer or another employee directing
that employee.
      (4)   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance
or non-performance of the official duties of the officer or employee.
(Prior Code, § 40.01) (Res. passed 5-20-2004)
§ 32.02 PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
activity during any compensated time, as defined herein. No officer or employee
shall intentionally use any property or resources of the county in connection
with any prohibited political activity.
   (B)   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity:
      (1)   As part of that officer or employee’s duties;
      (2)   As a condition of employment; or
      (3)   During any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or
personal time off).
   (C)   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this chapter.
   (E)   No person either in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment or in a position the salary for which is paid
in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the federal
standards of a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant-in-
aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party or of a political organization or club.
(Prior Code, § 40.02) (Res. passed 5-20-2004)
§ 32.03 GIFT BAN.
   (A)   Except as permitted by this section, no officer or employee, and no
spouse of or immediate family member living with any officer or employee
(collectively referred to herein as “recipients”), shall intentionally solicit
or accept any gift from any prohibited source, as defined here, or which is
otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance. No prohibited source shall
intentionally offer or make a gift that violates this section.
   (B)   This section is not applicable to the following:
      (1)   Opportunities, benefits and services that are available on the same
conditions as for the general public;
      (2)   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse or
immediate family member, pays the fair market value;
      (3)   Any:
         (a)   Contribution that is lawfully made under the Election Code; or
         (b)   Activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a
political organization or candidate.
      (4)   Educational materials and missions;
      (5)   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business;
      (6)   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half-brother, half-
sister and including the father, mother, grandfather or grandmother of the
individual’s spouse and the individual’s fiancé or fiancee;
      (7)   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as:
         (a)   The history of the relationship between the individual giving
the gift and the recipient of the gift, including any previous exchange of
gifts between those individuals;
         (b)   Whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual
who gave the gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or
business reimbursement for the gift; and
         (c)   Whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual
who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same or similar gifts to other
officers or employees; or their spouses or immediate family members.
      (8)   (a)   Food or refreshments not exceeding $75 per person in value on
a single calendar day; provided that, the food or refreshments are:
            1.   Consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared; or
            2.   Catered.
         (b)   For the purposes of this section, CATERED means food or
refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by any
means.
      (9)   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances;
      (10)   Intra-governmental and inter-governmental gifts. For the purpose
of this Act, INTRA-GOVERNMENTAL GIFT means any gift given to an officer or
employee from another officer or employee and INTER-GOVERNMENTAL GIFT means any
gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee or another
governmental entity;
      (11)   Bequests, inheritances and other transfers at death; and
      (12)   Any item or item from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than $100.
   (C)   Each of the exceptions listed in this section is mutually exclusive
and independent of every other.
   (D)   An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an immediate family
member living with the officer or employee, does not violate this chapter if
the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift from a
prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to its
value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under § 501
(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as now or hereafter amended,
renumbered or succeeded.
(Prior Code, § 40.03) (Res. passed 5-20-2004)
§ 32.04 ETHICS ADVISOR.
   (A)   The Chairperson of the County Board, with the advice and consent of
the County Board shall designate an Ethics Advisor for the county. The duties
of the Ethics Advisor may be delegated to an officer or employee of the county
unless the position has been created as an office by the Board.
   (B)   The Ethics Advisor shall provide guidance to the officers and
employees of the county concerning the interpretation of and compliance with
the provisions of this chapter and state ethics law. The Ethics Advisor shall
perform other duties as may be delegated by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 40.04) (Res. passed 5-20-2004)
§ 32.05 ETHICS COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby created a commission to be known as the Ethics
Commission of the county. The Commission shall be comprised of three members
appointed by the Chairperson of the Board with the advice and consent of the
Board. No person shall be appointed as a member of the Commission who is
related, either by blood or by marriage up to the degree of first cousin, to
any elected officer of the county. No more than two members of the Commission
shall belong to the same political party at the time the appointments are made.
Party affiliation shall be determined by affidavit of the person appointed.
   (B)   At the first meeting of the Commission, the initial appointees shall
draw lots to determine their initial terms. Two Commissioners shall serve two-
year terms and the third Commissioner shall serve a one-year term. Thereafter,
all Commissioners shall be appointed to two-year terms. Commissioners may be
reappointed to serve subsequent terms. At the first meeting of the Commission,
the Commissioners shall choose a Chairperson from their number. Meetings shall
be held at the call of the Chairperson or any two Commissioners. A quorum shall
consist of two Commissioners, and official action by the Commission shall
require the affirmative vote of two members.
   (C)   The Chairperson of the Board, with the advice and consent of the
Board, may remove a Commissioner in case of incompetency, neglect of duty or
malfeasance in office after service on the Commissioner by certified mail,
return receipt requested, of a copy of the written charges against the
Commissioner and after providing an opportunity to be heard in person or by
counsel upon not less than ten-days’ notice. Vacancies shall be filled in the
same manner as original appointments.
   (D)   The Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   To promulgate procedures and rules governing the performance of its
duties and the exercise of its powers;
      (2)   Upon receipt of a signed, notarized, written complaint, to
investigate, conduct hearings and deliberations, issue recommendations for
disciplinary actions, impose fines in accordance with §
32.99 and refer to violations of §§
32.02 or
32.03 to appropriate attorney for prosecution. The Commission shall, however,
act only upon the receipt of a written complaint alleging a violation of this
chapter and not upon its own prerogative;
      (3)   To receive information from the public pertaining to its
investigations and to require additional information and documents from persons
who may have violated the provisions of this chapter;
      (4)   To compel the attendance of witnesses and to compel the production
of books and papers pertinent to an investigation. It is the obligation of all
officers and employees of the county to cooperate with the Commission during
the course of its investigations. Failure or refusal to cooperate with requests
by the Commission shall constitute grounds for discipline or discharge; and
      (5)   The powers and duties of the Commission are limited to matters
clearly within the purview of this chapter.
   (E)   Complaints alleging a violation of this chapter shall be filed with
the Ethics Commission.
      (1)   Within three business days after the receipt of a complaint, the
Commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to
the respondent that a complaint has been filed against him or her and a copy of
the complaint. The Commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt
requested, a confirmation of the receipt of the complaint to the complainant
within three business days after receipt by the Commission. The notices to the
respondent and the complainant shall also advise them of the date, time and
place of the meeting to determine the sufficiency of the complaint and to
establish whether probable cause exists to proceed.
      (2)   Upon not less than 48-hours’ public notice, the Commission shall
meet to review the sufficiency of the complaint and, if the complaint is deemed
sufficient to allege a violation of this chapter, to determine whether there is
probable cause, based on the evidence presented by the complainant, to proceed.
The meeting may be closed to the public to the extent authorized by the Open
Meetings Act, being ILCS Ch. 5, Act 120. The Commission shall issue notice to
the complainant and the respondent of the Commission’s ruling on the
sufficiency of the complaint and, if necessary, on probable cause to proceed
within seven business days after receiving the complaint. If the complaint is
deemed sufficient to allege a violation of §
32.03 and there is a determination of probable cause, then the Commission’s
notice to the parties shall include a hearing date scheduled within four weeks
after the complaint’s receipt. Alternatively, the Commission may elect to
notify in writing the attorney designated by the corporate authorities to
prosecute these actions and request that the complaint be adjudicated
judicially. If the complaint is deemed not sufficient to allege a violation or
if there is no determination of probable cause, then the Commission shall send
by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to the parties of the
decision to dismiss the complaint, and that the notice shall be made public. If
the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of §
32.02, then the Commission shall notify in writing the attorney designated by
the corporate authorities to prosecute the actions and shall transmit to the
attorney the complaint and all additional documents in the custody of the
Commission concerning the alleged violation.
      (3)   On the scheduled date and upon at least 48-hours’ public notice of
the meeting, the Commission shall conduct a hearing on the complaint and shall
allow both parties the opportunity to present testimony and evidence. The
hearing may be closed to the public only if authorized by the Open Meetings
Act.
      (4)   (a)   Within 30 days after the date the hearing or any recessed
hearing is concluded, the Commission shall either:
            1.   Dismiss the complaint; or
            2.   Issue a recommendation for discipline to the alleged violator
and to the Chairperson of the Board and immediate supervisor, or impose a fine
upon the violator, or both.
         (b)   The particular findings in the case, any recommendation for
discipline and any fine imposed shall be a matter of public information.
      (5)   If the hearing was closed to the public, the respondent may file a
written demand for a public hearing on the complaint within seven business days
after the issuance of the recommendation for discipline or imposition of a
fine, or both. The filing of the demand shall stay the enforcement of the
recommendation or fine. Within 14 days after receiving the demand, the
Commission shall conduct a public hearing on the complaint upon at least 48-
hours’ public notice of the hearing and allow both parties the opportunity to
present testimony and evidence. Within seven days thereafter, the Commission
shall publicly issue a final recommendation to the alleged violator and to the
Chairperson of the Board and immediate supervisor or impose a fine upon the
violator, or both.
      (6)   If a complaint is filed during the 60 days preceding the date of
any election at which the respondent is a candidate, the Commission shall
render its decision as required under division (E)(4) above within seven days
after the complaint is filed, and during the seven days preceding that
election, the Commission shall render the decision before the date of that
election, if possible.
      (7)   A complaint alleging the violation of this Act must be filed within
one year after the alleged violation.
(Prior Code, § 40.05) (Res. passed 5-20-2004)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of §
32.02 may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal institution other
than a penitentiary for a period of not more than 364 days, and may be fined in
an amount not to exceed $2,500.
   (B)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of §
32.03 is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than $1,001 and not more
than $5,000.
   (C)   Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation
of any provision of this chapter to the local enforcement authorities, the
State’s Attorney or any other law enforcement official may be punished by a
term of incarceration in a penal institution other than a penitentiary for a
period of not more than 364 days, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed
$2,500.
   (D)   A violation of §
32.02 shall be prosecuted as a criminal offense by an attorney for the county
by filing in the Circuit Court an information, or sworn complaint, charging the
offense. The prosecution shall be under and conform to the rules of criminal
procedure. Conviction shall require the establishment of the guilt of the
defendant beyond a reasonable doubt. A violation of §
32.03 may be prosecuted as a quasi-criminal offense by an attorney for the
county, or, if an Ethics Commission has been created, by the Commission through
the designated administrative procedure.
   (E)   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of §§
32.02 or
32.03 is subject to discipline or discharge.
(Prior Code, § 40.06) (Res. passed 5-20-2004)
CHAPTER 33: JUDICIAL; COUNTY COURT
Section
   
33.01   County to be represented by State’s Attorney’s Appellate Prosecutor in
certain matters
   
33.02   Jury Commission
   
33.03   Court service fees
   
33.04   Authorization to disburse court fees
   
33.05   Court document fees
   
33.06   Court automation fees
   
33.07   Children’s Advocacy Center fee
   
33.08   Juror compensation
§ 33.01 COUNTY TO BE REPRESENTED BY STATE’S ATTORNEY’S APPELLATE PROSECUTOR IN
CERTAIN MATTERS.
   (A)   Appellate court cases.
      (1)   The County Board shall designate the office of the State’s
Attorney’s Appellate Prosecutor as its agent to administer the operation of the
appellate offices and process the appellate court cases for this county.
      (2)   The attorneys employed by the office of the State’s Attorney’s
Appellate Prosecutor are hereby authorized to act as Assistant State’s
Attorneys on behalf of the State’s Attorney of the county in the appeal of all
cases, when requested to do so by the State’s Attorney, and with the advice and
consent of the State’s Attorney prepare, file and argue appellate briefs for
those cases; and also, as may be requested by the State’s Attorney, to assist
in the prosecution of cases under the State Controlled Substances Act, being
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, and the Narcotics Profit Forfeiture Act, ILCS Ch. 725,
Act 175. The attorneys are further authorized to assist the State’s Attorney in
his or her duties under the State Public Labor Relations Act, including
negotiations thereunder, as well as in the trial and appeal of tax objections.
   (B)   Labor negotiations.
      (1)   The County Board hereby authorizes and empowers the State’s
Attorney’s Appellate Prosecutor to represent the county in all labor
negotiations and other labor matters in the county including, but not limited
to, matters prior to a representation election, any negotiations with the union
concerning wages, hours and other conditions of employment and any proceedings
before the Labor Relations Board, cases in the courts of the state and any and
all other matters incident to and arising out of county activities under and by
virtue of the State Public Labor Relations Act, including the resolution of
disputes arising out of and under collective bargaining agreements if any.
      (2)   As and in consideration for the above services provided by the
State’s Attorney’s Appellate Prosecutor, the county shall pay to the Appellate
Prosecutor a set amount for attorney or negotiator for two hours or less on
each day; a set amount per attorney or negotiator for more than two hours, but
less than four hours on each day; a set amount per attorney or negotiator in
excess of four hours on each day; and an initial charge for the first draft of
the employer proposal; and a charge for major revisions in the employer
proposals or major memoranda to the bargaining teams.
      (3)   It is mutually understood and agreed between the parties that the
labor negotiators and/or attorneys shall serve at the pleasure of the County
Board and any and all services provided for herein may be terminated by the
County Board upon ten-days’ prior written notice to the Director of the State’s
Attorney’s Appellate Prosecutor by registered mail and a copy to the State’s
Attorney of the county.
      (4)   It is further understood and agreed that the State’s Attorney’s
Appellate Prosecutor in any and all services rendered here shall obtain
direction in the negotiations and other labor matters from the County State’s
Attorney and/or Chairperson of the County Board and the Appellate Prosecutor
through its’ agents and employees shall advise the State’s Attorney and
Chairperson of the County Board of all of the Appellate Prosecutor activities,
functions and duties pursuant to this division (B)(4).
(Prior Code, § 33.01) (Res. passed 10-16-1986; Res. passed 11-16-1989; Res.
passed 11-34-1991)
§ 33.02 JURY COMMISSION.
   (A)   The County Board hereby adopts the provisions of an Act in Relation to
Jury Commissioners and Authorizing Judges to Appoint the Commissioners and to
Make Rules Concerning Their Powers and Duties, as amended.
   (B)   The Circuit Judges of the Sixth Judicial Circuit of the state, or a
majority of them, shall choose three competent and discreet electors, who shall
not be so chosen on account of party affiliation, who shall be known as the
Jury Commissioners of the county, the Commissioners to be chosen on the first
Monday of July.
   (C)   The Jury Commissioners and their clerk or assistants, if any be so
authorized by the Circuit Judges, shall be paid for their services compensation
as shall be hereinafter fixed by resolution of the County Board; and the Jury
Commissioners shall be allowed a reasonable sum every year for stationery and
office expenses other than salaries, which expenses shall first be approved by
the presiding Judge of the General Division of the Circuit Court of the county.
(Prior Code, § 33.02) (Res. passed 2-11-1974)
§ 33.03 COURT SERVICE FEES.
   Effective September 1, 2015
 
                                                                                                      COURT              ACCESS
CASE TYPE                                                    CLERK   COURT LAW     COURT    AUTOM’N DOCMNT FORECLSR    TO      E-       TOTAL
                                                                           LIBRARY SECURITY FUND      FUND   PREVENT’N JUSTICE BUSINESS
                                                                                                                         FUND
Adoption (AD)                                                $65                                                                  $65
Alias Summons/Alias Citations                                $5                                                                   $5
Appeals                                                       
   original documents (under 100 pages)                   $75                                                                           
   original documents (over 100 pages)                    $150                                                                 $75
   original documents (over 200 pages;                    $0.25                                                                        $150
   each additional page)
Bond Forfeiture Petition                                     $40                                                                  $40
Certified Copies                                             $10                                                                  $10
Chancery (CH)                                                                                                                     
   commercial foreclosure                                 $115    $5    $13     $25      $20       $20    $50         $2      $9       $259
   TIER 1 (175 or more)                                   $126    $5    $13     $25      $20       $20    $550        $2      $9       $770
   TIER 2 (50-174)                                        $121    $5    $13     $25      $20       $20    $300        $2      $9       $515
   TIER 3 (49 or less)                                    $117    $5    $13     $25      $20       $20    $100        $2      $9       $311
   ANSWER                                                 $40          $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $129
Change of Venue                                              $40                                                                  $40
Checks or other bank Instruments returned due to non-        $25                                                                  $25
sufficient funds, account closed or stopped payment
Civil jury demand**                                          $212.50                                                              $212.50
Confession of Judgment                                       $40                                                                    
Under $1,500                                                 $80     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20               $2      $9       $134
$1,501 - $15,000                                             $120    $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $174
Over $15,000                                                         $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $214
                                                              
Copies/Fax                                                   $2
   first page                                             $0.50/                                                                
   next 19 pages                                          ea
   20+ pages                                              $0.25/
                                                             ea
Correction of Case                                           $20                                                                  $20
Counterclaims/3rd Party Defendant: Shall pay a fee for each
counterclaim or 3rd party action equal to the fee paid if                                                                         
had brought separate action for relief sought less the
amount of appearance fee if one has been paid.
Dissolution/Invalidity of Marriage (D)
   Complaint                                                                                                                    
   Answer/Appearance Fee                                  $115    $5    $13     $25      $20       $20               $2      $9       $209
   Counterclaim                                           $50          $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $139
   Child Support Admin Fee                                $40     $5                     $15       $15                $2               $77
   $36/year
Eminent Domain (ED)                                                                                                                
   Complaint                                              $140    $5    $13     $25      $20       $20               $2      $9       $234
   Answer/Appearance Fee                                  $40          $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $129
Expungement Petition                                                                                                                      
(In addition to the $60 fee paid to                                                                                                       
the Clerk, the Petitioner must                                                                                                            
make a check payable to the                                  $60                                                                  $120
Illinois State Police for $60 - if                                                                                                        
the Petition is granted.)                                                                                                                 
   Certified copy of an Order to                          $4                                                                           $4
   Expunge Arrest Records
Family (F)*                                                                                                                               
   Paternity                                              $30                                                                          $105
   Complaint                                              $30                                                                      $124
   Answer/Appearance fee                                  $25     $5                   $15       $15                $2              $114
   Counterclaim                                           $40     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20               $2              $77
   Petition Underage Marriage                             $65          $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $65
   Petition for Waiver of Waiting                         $65     $5    $13     $25      $15       $15                $2      $9       $65
   Period for Marriage License                                                                                                         
   Child Support/Admin Fee $36/year                       $36/yr                                                                        
   Notice to putative fathers                             $25                                                                          $25
Forcible Entry & Detainer                                                                                                          
   Complaint-Possession and rent                          $35     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $129
   (under $15,000)                                                                                                              
   Complaint-Possession and rent                          $93     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $187
   (Less than $50,000)                                                                                                          
   Answer/Appearance Fee                                  $20          $13     $25      $20       $20               $2      $9       $109
   (Rent under $1,500)                                                                                                          
   Answer/Appearance Fee                                  $40          $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $129
   (Over $1,500-$15,000)                                                                                                        
   Complaint-possession only                              $40     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $134
   Appearance/answer (possession only)                    $45          $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $134
Habeas Corpus (Petition for Relief)                          $100                                                                 $100
Law (L)                                                      $115                                                                   
Lawsuit over $50,000                                         $40     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20               $2      $9       $209
Answer/Appearance Fee                                        $341.50      $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $129
Answer with Jury Demand                                                                                                                   $341.50
                                                             $70                                                                     
Law Magistrate (LM)                                                      $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $164
Lawsuit less than $50,000                                    $40     $5                                                              
(Repvlin $15,000 or less)                                    $40          $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $129
Answer                                                                   $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $134
Lawsuit less than $50,00 ($10,000-$15,000)                   $40     $5                                                             
Answer                                                       $120         $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $129
Lawsuit less than $50,000 ($15,000-$50,000)                              $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $214
Answer                                                       $22     $5                                                              
Jury Fee (6)                                                 $212.50      $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $129
                                                                                                                                          $212.50
Modify, alter, vacate any judgment or final orders           $40                                                                  $40
Motions: Traffic/Criminal
   Vacate bond forfeiture orders                          $50                                                                           
   Vacate ex parte judgments                              $50                                                                          $50
   Vacate judgment on forfeitures                         $50                                                                  $50
   Vacate “Failure to appear” or                      $50                                                                          $50
“Failure to Comply” sent to                                                                                                           $50
Secretary of State
Municipal Corporation (MC)                                                                                                         
   Complaint                                              $120    $5    $13     $25      $20       $20               $2      $9       $214
   Answer                                                 $18           $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $107
Mental Health (MH)                                                                                                                
   Complaint                                              $25     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $119
Miscellaneous Remedy (MR)                                                                                                                 
   Complaint                                              $115                                                                  $209
   Answer                                                 $40     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20               $2      $9       $129
   Petition - Expungement                                 $60           $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $120
   (plus $60 - State Police Fee)
Petition for Adjudication of Indirect Civil Contempt                                                                                      
$1 - $1,000                                                  $12                                                                           
$1,001 - $5,000                                              $20                                                                  $12
+$5,000                                                      $40                                                                          $20
                                                                                                                                          $40
Petition for Real Estate                                     $50                                                                  $50
                                                             $140                                                                    
Probate (P)                                                  $40          $13     $25      $15       $15                $2              $215
Settle Without Admin Estate                                         $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $134
Decedent Estate Guardianship                                 $140    $5                                                              
of Estate & Person Under $15,000                                         $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $234
Decedent Estate Guardianship                                 $30     $5                                                              
of Estate & Person Over $15,000                                          $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $124
Disabled person/minor’s estate ($15,000 or less)           $30     $5                                                              
Disabled person/ minor’s estate                                        $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $124
(over $15,000)                                               $20     $5                                                             
Disabled Person/ Minor’s Letters for person only-no estate             $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $114
Answer/Appearance                                            $30     $5                                                              
Guardianship of Person Only                                  $20          $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $124
Claim in an estate ($150-$499)                               $20     $5    $13     $25      $15       $15                $2              $95
Claim in an estate ($500-$9,999.99)                          $40     $5                                                             $20
Claim in an estate ($10,000 or more)                         $60                                                                   $40
Letters of Office                                            $2                                                                    $60
Answer/Appearance Fee                                        $40                                                                   $2
Jury Fee (6)                                                 $125         $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $129
                                                                                                                                          $125
Record search (per year searched)                            $6                                                                   $4
                                                                                                                                           
Small Claims (SC)                                            $10                                                                           
$1 - $250                                                    $10                                                                   $104
Answer & Appearance Fee                                      $20     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $99
$251 - $500                                                  $20          $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $114
Answer & Appearance Fee                                      $30     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $109
$501 - $2,500                                                $30          $13     $25      $20       $20               $2      $9       $124
Answer & Appearance Fee                                      $60     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $119
$2,501 - $10,000                                             $60          $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $154
Answer & Appearance Fee                                      $12.50  $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $149
Jury Fee (6)                                                 $25          $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $12.50
(12)                                                                                                                                      $25
Tax Deed (TX)
   (one parcel included)                                                                                                        
   Each Additional Parcel                                 $140    $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $234
   Motion to declare a sale in error                      $60                                                                   $60
   Scavenger tax sale                                     $10     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20               $2      $9       $104
                                                            $25     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $119
Tax Objections (TX)                                                                                                                
   (per objection regardless of how                       $40     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $134
   many complaints or parcels are
   involved)
Wage Garnishment/Wage Deductions/ Wage Citations                                                                                          
$1 - $1,000                                                  $15                                                                           
$1,001 - $5,000                                              $25                                                                  $15
Over $5,000                                                  $45                                                                          $25
                                                                                                                                          $45
*   Family except petitions under Juvenile Court Act of 1987 and petitions under the Illinois Parentage Act of 1984.
**   In every civil action not quasi-criminal in it nature and not a proceeding for the exercise of the rights of eminent domain and in every
other action where the right of trial by jury is or may be given by law, the Circuit Clerk shall be entitled to receive the fee for the services
of a jury. The jury fee shall be paid by the party demanding a jury at the time of the filing the jury demand. If the fee is not paid by either
party, no jury shall be called and the cases shall be tried by the court without a jury.
 
                                            COURT              ACCESS
CASE CLERK COURT LAW     COURT    AUTOM’N DOCMNT FORECLSR    TO      E-       TOTAL
TYPE             LIBRARY SECURITY FUND      FUND   PREVENT’N JUSTICE BUSINESS
                                                               FUND
                                                                                                                     COURT              ACCESS
CASE TYPE                                                                   CLERK   COURT LAW     COURT    AUTOM’N DOCMNT FORECLSR    TO      E-       TOTAL
                                                                                          LIBRARY SECURITY FUND      FUND   PREVENT’N JUSTICE BUSINESS
                                                                                                                                        FUND
Adoption (AD)                                                               $65                                                                          $65
Alias Summons/Alias Citations                                               $5                                                                           $5
Appeals
original documents (under 100 pages)                                        $60                                                                          $60
original documents (over 100 pages)                                         $150                                                                         $150
original documents (over 200 pages; each additional page)                   $0.25
Bond Forfeiture Petition                                                    $40                                                                          $40
Certified Copies                                                            $10                                                                          $10
Chancery (CH)
commercial foreclosure                                                      $115    $5    $13     $25      $20       $20    $50         $2      $9       $259
TIER 1 (175 or more)                                                        $126    $5    $13     $25      $20       $20    $550        $2      $9       $770
TIER 2 (50 - 174)                                                           $121    $5    $13     $25      $20       $20    $300        $2      $9       $515
TIER 3 (49 or less)                                                         $117    $5    $13     $25      $20       $20    $100        $2      $9       $311
ANSWER                                                                      $40     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $129
Change of Venue                                                             $40                                                                          $30
Checks or other bank Instruments returned due to non-sufficient funds,      $25                                                                          $25
account closed or stopped payment
Civil jury demand**                                                         $212.50                                                                      $212.50
Confession of Judgment
Under $1,500                                                                $40     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $134
$1,501 - $15,000                                                            $80     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $174
Over $15,000                                                                $120    $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $214
Copies/ Fax
first page                                                                  $2
next 19 pages                                                               $0.50/
                                                                            ea
20+ pages                                                                   $0.25/
                                                                            ea
Correction of Case                                                          $20                                                                          $20
Counterclaims/3rd Party Defendant: Shall pay a fee for each counterclaim or
3rd party action equal to the fee paid if had brought separate action for
relief sought less the amount of appearance fee if one has been paid.
Dissolution/Invalidity of Marriage (D)
Complaint                                                                   $115    $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $209
Answer/Appearance Fee                                                       $50           $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $139
Counterclaim                                                                $40     $5                     $15       $15                $2               $77
Child Support Admin Fee    $36/year
Eminent Domain (ED)
Complaint                                                                   $140    $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $234
Answer/Appearance Fee                                                       $40     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $129
Expungement Petition
(In addition to the $60 fee paid to the Clerk, the Petitioner must make a   $60                                                                          $120
check payable to the Illinois State Police for $60 - if the Petition is
granted.)
Certified copy of an Order to Expunge Arrest Records                        $4                                                                           $4
Family (F)*
Paternity                                                                   $30     $5    $13     $25      $15       $15                $2               $105
Complaint                                                                   $30     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $124
Answer/Appearance fee                                                       $25     $5    $13     $25      $15       $15                $2      $9       $114
Counterclaim                                                                $40     $5                     $15       $15                $2               $77
Petition Underage Marriage                                                  $65                                                                          $65
Petition for Waiver of Waiting Period for Marriage License                  $65                                                                          $65
Child Support/Admin Fee $36/year                                            $36/yr
Notice to putative fathers                                                  $25                                                                          $25
Forcible Entry & Detainer
Complaint - Possession and rent (Under $15,000)                             $35     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $129
Complaint - Possession and rent (Less than $50,000)                         $93     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $187
Answer /Appearance Fee (Rent under $1,500)                                  $20           $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $109
Answer /Appearance Fee (Over $1,500 - $15,000)                              $40           $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $129
Complaint - possession only                                                 $40     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $134
Appearance/answer (possession only)                                         $45           $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $134
Habeas Corpus (Petition for Relief)                                         $100                                                                         $100
Law (L)
Lawsuit over $50,000                                                        $115    $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $209
Answer/Appearance Fee                                                       $40     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $129
Answer with Jury Demand                                                     $341.50                                                                      $341.50
Law Magistrate (LM)
Lawsuit less than $50,000                                                   $70     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $164
(Repvlin $15,000 or less)
Answer                                                                      $40           $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $129
Lawsuit less than $50,00 ($10,000-$15,000)                                  $40     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $134
Answer                                                                      $40           $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $129
Lawsuit less than $50,000 ($15,000-$50,000)                                 $120          $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $214
Answer                                                                      $22           $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $129
Jury Fee (6)                                                                $212.50                                                                      $212.50
Modify, alter, vacate any judgment or final orders                          $40                                                                          $40
Motions: Traffic/Criminal   
Vacate bond forfeiture orders                                               $40                                                                          $40
Vacate ex parte judgments                                                   $40                                                                          $40
Vacate judgment on forfeitures                                              $40                                                                          $40
Vacate “Failure to appear” or “Failure to Comply” sent to Secretary $40                                                                          $40
State
Municipal Corporation (MC)
Complaint                                                                   $120    $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $214
Answer                                                                      $18           $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $107
Mental Health (MH)                                                          $25     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $119
Complaint
Miscellaneous Remedy (MR)
Complaint                                                                   $115    $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $209
Answer                                                                      $40           $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $129
Petition - Expungement                                                      $60                                                                          $120
(plus $60 - State Police Fee)
Petition for Adjudication of Indirect Civil Contempt
$1 - $1,000                                                                 $12                                                                          $12
$1,001 - $5,000                                                             $20                                                                          $20
+$5,000                                                                     $40                                                                          $40
Petition for Real Estate                                                    $50                                                                          $50
Probate (P)
Settle Without Admin Estate                                                 $140    $5    $13     $25      $15       $15                $2               $215
Decedent Estate Guardianship of Estate & Person Under $15,000               $40     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $134
Decedent Estate Guardianship of Estate & Person Over $15,000                $140    $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $234
Disabled person/minor’s estate ($15,000 or less)                          $30     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $124
Disabled person/minor’s estate (over $15,000)                             $30     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $124
Disabled Person/ Minor’s Letters for person only-no estate                $20     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $114
Answer/Appearance                                                           $30     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $124
Guardianship of Person Only                                                 $20     $5    $13     $25      $15       $15                $2               $95
Claim in an estate ($150-$499)                                              $20                                                                          $20
Claim in an estate ($500-$9,999.99)                                         $40                                                                          $40
Claim in an estate ($10,000 or more)                                        $60                                                                          $60
Letters of Office                                                           $2                                                                           $2
Answer/Appearance Fee                                                       $40                                                                          $129
Jury Fee (6)                                                                $125                                                                         $125
Record search (per year searched)                                           $6                                                                           $4
Small Claims (SC)
$1 - $250                                                                   $10     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $104
Answer & Appearance Fee                                                     $10           $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $99
$251 - $500                                                                 $20     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $114
Answer & Appearance Fee                                                     $20           $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $109
$501 - $2,500                                                               $30     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $124
Answer & Appearance Fee                                                     $30           $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $119
$2,501 - $10,000                                                            $60     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $154
Answer & Appearance Fee                                                     $60           $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $149
Jury Fee (6)                                                                $12.50                                                                       $12.50
(12)                                                                        $25                                                                          $25
Tax Deed (TX)
(one parcel included)                                                       $140    $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $234
Each Additional Parcel                                                      $60                                                                          $60
Motion to declare a sale in error                                           $10     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $104
Scavenger tax sale                                                          $25     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $119
Tax Objections (TX)                                                         $40     $5    $13     $25      $20       $20                $2      $9       $134
(per objection regardless of how many complaints or parcels are involved)
Wage Garnishment/Wage Deductions/ Wage Citations
$1 - $1,000                                                                 $15                                                                          $15
$1,001 - $5,000                                                             $25                                                                          $25
Over $5,000                                                                 $45                                                                          $45
*   Family except petitions under Juvenile Court Act of 1987 and petitions under the Illinois Parentage Act of 1984.
**   In every civil action not quasi-criminal in it nature and not a proceeding for the exercise of the rights of eminent domain and in every other action where
the right of trial by jury is or may be given by law, the Circuit Clerk shall be entitled to receive the fee for the services of a jury. The jury fee shall be
paid by the party demanding a jury at the time of the filing the jury demand. If the fee is not paid by either party, no jury shall be called and the cases
shall be tried by the court without a jury.
 
(Prior Code, § 33.03) (Res. passed 5-16-1996; Res. 2015-10, passed 9-24-2015;
Res. 2015-10(A), passed 10-22-2015; Res. 2018-06, passed 7-19- 2018; Res. 2018-
17, passed 12-20-2018; Res. passed 6-20-2019)
§ 33.04 AUTHORIZATION TO DISBURSE COURT FEES.
   Pursuant to the Manual on Records Keeping and Manual on Fines and Fees, the
County Circuit Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to disburse all fees,
fines, costs, additional penalties, bail balances assessed or forfeited, and
any other amount paid by a person to the Circuit Clerk as otherwise provided by
law, effective 1-1-1992.
(Prior Code, § 33.04) (Ord. passed 2-13-1992)
§ 33.05 COURT DOCUMENT FEES.
   (A)   The County Circuit Clerk is authorized to collect a court document fee
of $20 for over the counter or $18 for each party in all civil cases and $13
for over the counter or $13 from each criminal defendant who is convicted or
placed on supervision.
   (B)   These fees shall be paid into the County Treasury and deposited into
the Court Documents Storage Fund from which the County Board may make
expenditures for court record storage costs including personnel; provided that,
the expenditure is approved by the Clerk of the Circuit Court.
(Prior Code, § 33.05) (Res. passed 4-16-1992; Res. passed 11-11-1993, effective
1-1-1994; Res. 2018-15, passed 9-20-2018; Res. 2018-15, passed 9-20-2018; Res.
passed 6-20-2019)
§ 33.06 COURT AUTOMATION FEES.
   (A)   The County Board, pursuant to state law, does hereby impose a $10 for
over the counter or a $20 court automation fee for each party in all civil
cases or by the defendant in any felony, traffic, misdemeanor, municipal
ordinance or conservation case upon a judgment of guilty or grant of
supervision.
   (B)   This fee shall be in addition to all other fees and charges of the
County Circuit Clerk, and assessable as costs, and shall be submitted monthly
by the County Circuit Clerk to the County Treasurer in a special fund
designated as the Court Automation Fund.
   (C)   Funds shall be audited by the County Auditor and the County Board
shall make expenditures from the fund in payment of any costs related to the
automation of Court records; provided, the expenditure is approved by the Clerk
of the Circuit Court of the county and the Chief Judge of the Sixth Judicial
Circuit or his or her designees.
(Prior Code, § 33.06) (Res. passed 11-11-1993, effective 1-1-1994; Res. 08-01,
passed 1-24-2008, effective 2-1-2008; Res. passed 6-20-2019)
§ 33.07 CHILDREN’S ADVOCACY CENTER FEE.
   (A)   Pursuant to state law, the Circuit Clerk of the county shall, assess a
fee of $15 on a judgment of guilty or a grant of supervision under ILCS Ch.
730, Act 5, § 5-9-1, being the Unified Code of Corrections for a felony; for a
class A, class B or class C misdemeanor; for a petty offense; and for a
business offense.
   (B)   The County Circuit Clerk shall remit collected fees to the McLean
County Child Advocacy Center as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 33.07) (Res. 08-02, passed 1-24-2008, effective 2-1-2008)
§ 33.08 JUROR COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Jurors shall be paid no less than the minimum compensation as outlined
in ILCS Ch. 55, Act 5, § 4-11001, or similar statute that may be passed into
law by the Illinois General Assembly hi the future.
   (B)   The amounts to be paid for jury service are to be paid out of the
county treasury.
   (C)   Day care is to be reimbursed upon the order of the judge presiding
over the case involving the jury.
   (D)   The Circuit Cleric shall disburse to each juror $15 per day as well as
15 cents per mile traveled as compensation for their service.
(Res. 2018-03, passed 2-22-2018)
CHAPTER 34: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY AND PLAN
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Policy; purpose
   
34.02   Limitations on provisions
   
34.03   Definitions
   
34.04   Emergency Management Agencies
   
34.05   Declaration of local disaster
   
34.06   Testing of disaster warning devices
   
34.07   Mutual aid arrangements with other political subdivisions
   
34.08   Communications in times of disaster
   
34.09   Immunity
   
34.10   Authority to accept services, gifts, grants or loans
   
34.11   Orders, rules and regulations
   
34.12   Utilization of existing agency, facilities and personnel
   
34.13   Oath
   
34.14   No private liability
   
34.15   Political activities prohibited
Emergency/Disaster Plans for County Building
   
34.30   Introduction
   
34.31   Internal emergency/disaster procedures
   
34.32   External emergency/disaster procedures
   
34.33   Hazardous materials incident
   
34.34   Earthquake safety procedures
   
34.35   Bomb threats
   
Appendix A: County Building Signature Page
Cross-reference:
   County committees, see §
31.01
   Law Enforcement, see §§
31.15 through
31.18
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 POLICY; PURPOSE.
   (A)   Because of the possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destructiveness resulting from the explosion in this or
in neighboring states of atomic or other means from without or by means of
sabotage or other disloyal actions within, or from fire, flood, earthquake or
other natural or technological causes, and in order to ensure that the county
will be prepared to and will adequately deal with any disasters, preserve the
lives and property of the people of the county and protect the public peace,
health and safety in the event of a disaster, it is found and declared to be
necessary to:
      (1)   Create a County Emergency Management Agency and to authorize the
creation of Emergency Management Agencies in the political subdivisions of the
county;
      (2)   Confer upon the County Board Chairperson and upon the principal
executive officer
of the political subdivisions of the county the powers provided herein; and
      (3)   Provide for the rendering of mutual aid among the political
subdivisions of the county and with other counties and with respect to the
carrying out of an emergency management program.
   (B)   It is declared to be the purpose of this subchapter and the policy of
the county, that all emergency management programs of the county be coordinated
to maximum extent with the comparable program of the federal government and
state government, including its various departments and agencies, of other
states and localities and private agencies of every type, to the end that the
most effective preparation and use may be made of the nation’s resources and
facilities for dealing with any disaster that may occur.
(Prior Code, § 35.01) (Ord. passed 3-16-1989)
§ 34.02 LIMITATIONS ON PROVISIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to:
   (A)   Interfere with the course or conduct of a labor dispute; except that,
actions otherwise authorized by this subchapter or other laws may be taken when
necessary to mitigate imminent or existing danger to public health or safety;
   (B)   Interfere with dissemination of news or comment of public affairs; but
any communications facility or organization (including, but not limited to,
radio and television stations, wire services and newspapers) may be requested
to transmit or print public service messages furnishing information or
instructions in connection with a disaster; or
   (C)   Affect the jurisdiction or responsibilities of police forces,
firefighting forces, units of the armed forces of the United States, or of any
personnel thereof, when on active duty; but county and political subdivision
emergency operations plans shall place reliance upon the forces available for
performance of functions related to emergency management.
(Prior Code, § 35.02) (Ord. passed 3-16-1989)
§ 34.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COORDINATOR. The staff assistant to the principal executive officer of a
political subdivision with the duty of coordinating the emergency management
programs of that political subdivision.
   DISASTER. An occurrence or threat of widespread or severe damage, injury or
loss of life or property resulting from any natural or technological cause,
including, but not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, hazardous
materials spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to
avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, extended periods
of severe and inclement weather, drought, infestation, critical shortage of
essential fuels and energy, explosion, riot or hostile military or paramilitary
action.
   DISASTER TRAINING EXERCISE. A planned event designated specifically to
simulate an actual disaster which will provide emergency operations training
for emergency response personnel. Actual response by E.M.A. volunteers to local
emergency situations not qualifying as disasters, as defined above in this
section, is considered a DISASTER TRAINING EXERCISE. However, performance of
the usual and customary emergency functions of a political subdivision (such
as, police, fire or emergency medical services) is not included within this
definition of a DISASTER TRAINING EXERCISE.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The efforts of the county and the political
subdivisions to develop, plan, analyze, conduct, implement and maintain
programs for disaster mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY. The agency established by ordinance within a
political subdivision to coordinate the emergency management program within
that political subdivision and with private organizations, other political
subdivisions, the state and federal governments.
   EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN. The written plan of the county and political
subdivisions describing the organization, mission and functions of the
government and supporting services for responding to and recovering from
disasters.
   EMERGENCY SERVICES. The coordination of these functions by the county and
its political subdivision, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, as may be necessary or proper to prevent, minimize,
repair and alleviate injury and damage resulting from any natural or
technological causes. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting
services, police services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering,
warning sendees communications, radiological, chemical and other special
weapons defense, evacuation of persons from stricken or threatened areas,
emergency assigned functions of plant protection, temporary restoration of
public utility services and other functions related to civilian protection,
together with all other activities necessary or incidental to protecting life
or property.
   MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM. The utilization of personnel to be dispatched by the
Governor, or, if he or she so authorizes the Director, by the Director, to
supplement local political subdivisions for emergency management programs in
response to a disaster.
   MUNICIPALITY. Any city, village and incorporated town.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. Any city, village or incorporated town.
   PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER. The Chairperson of the County Board, Mayor of
the city or incorporated town, president of a village or in their absence or
disability, the interim successor as established pursuant to § 7 of the
Emergency Interim Executive Succession Act, being ILCS Ch. 5, Act 275.
(Prior Code, § 35.03) (Ord. passed 3-16-1989)
§ 34.04 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCIES.
   (A)   Each political subdivision within the county shall be within the
jurisdiction of and served by the County Emergency Management Agency or by a
municipal Emergency Management Agency responsible for the emergency management
programs.
   (B)   Each municipality which is not required to and does not have an
Emergency Management Agency shall have a liaison officer designated to
facilitate the cooperation and protection of the municipal corporation with the
county Emergency Management Agency in which it is located in the work of
disaster mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery.
   (C)   The principal executive officer of each political subdivision in the
county shall annually notify the Illinois Emergency Management Agency of the
manner in which the political subdivision is providing or securing emergency
management, identify the executive head of the agency or the department from
which the service is obtained, or the liaison officer, and furnish additional
information relating thereto as the Illinois Emergency Management Agency
requires.
   (D)   Each Emergency Management Agency shall prepare and keep current an
emergency operations plan for its geographic boundaries.
   (E)   The Emergency Management Agency shall prepare and distribute to all
appropriate officials in written form a clear and complete statement of the
emergency responsibilities of all local departments and officials and of the
disaster chain of command.
   (F)   Each Emergency Management Agency shall have a Coordinator who shall be
appointed by the principal executive officer of the political subdivision in
the same manner as are the heads of regular governmental departments. The
Coordinator shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training and operation of the Emergency Management Agency,
subject to the direction and control of that principal executive officer. Each
Emergency Management Agency shall coordinate emergency management functions
within the territorial limits of the political subdivision within which it is
organized as are prescribed in and by the County Emergency Operation Plan, and
programs, orders, rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the Illinois
Emergency Management Agency and, in addition, shall conduct the functions
outside of those territorial limits as may be required pursuant to mutual aid
agreements.
   (G)   In carrying out the provisions of this subchapter, each political
subdivision may enter into contracts and incur obligations necessary to place
it in a position effectively to combat the disasters as are described in §
34.01(A) to protect the health and safety of persons and to protect property,
and to provide emergency assistance to victims of those disasters. If a
disaster occurs, each political subdivision may exercise the powers vested
under this section in the light of the exigencies of the disaster and,
excepting mandatory constitutional requirements, without regard to the
procedures and formalities normally prescribed by law pertaining to the
performance of public work entering into contracts, the incurring of
obligations, the employment of temporary workers, the rental of equipment, the
purchase of supplies and materials and the appropriation, expenditure and
disposition of public funds and property.
   (H)   Emergency Management Agency personnel who, while engaged in a disaster
or disaster training exercise, suffer disease, injury or death, shall, for the
purposes of benefits under the Workers’ Compensation Act, being ILCS Ch. 820,
Act 305, or Workers’ Occupational Diseases Act, being ILCS Ch. 820, Act 310,
only, be deemed to be employees of the state, if the claimant is duly qualified
and enrolled (sworn in) as a volunteer of the County Emergency Management
Agency or an Emergency Management Agency accredited by the Illinois Emergency
Management Agency, and if the claimant was participating in an actual disaster
or the exercise participated in was specifically and expressly approved by the
Illinois Emergency Management Agency. The Illinois Emergency Management Agency
shall use the same criteria for approving an exercise and utilizing state
volunteers as required for any political subdivision. The computation of
benefits payable under either of those Acts shall be based on the income
commensurate with comparable state employees doing the same work or income from
the person’s regular employment, whichever is greater.
   (I)   If any person who is entitled to receive benefits through the
application of this section received, in connection with the disease, injury or
death giving rise to the entitlement, benefits under an Act of Congress or
federal program, benefits payable under this section shall be reduced to the
extent of the benefits received under that other Act or program.
   (J)   (1)   Prior to conducting a disaster training exercise, the principal
executive officer of a political subdivision or his or her designee shall
provide area media with written notification of the disaster training exercise.
The notification shall indicate that information relating to the disaster
training exercise shall not be released to the public until the commencement of
the exercise. The notification shall also contain a request that the notice be
so posted to ensure that all relevant media personnel are advised of the
disaster training exercise before it begins.
      (2)   During the conduct of the disaster training exercise, all messages,
two-way radio communication briefings, status reports, news releases and other
oral or written communications shall begin and end with the following
statement: “This is an exercise message”.
(Prior Code, § 35.04) (Ord. passed 3-16-1989)
§ 34.05 DECLARATION OF LOCAL DISASTER.
   (A)   A local disaster may be declared only by the principal executive
officer of a political subdivision, or his or her interim emergency successor,
as provided in § 7 of the Emergency Interim Executive Succession Act, being
ILCS Ch. 5, Act 275. It shall not be continued or renewed for a period in
excess of seven days, except by or with the consent of the governing board of
the political subdivision. Any order or proclamation declaring, continuing or
terminating a local disaster shall be given prompt and general publicity and
shall be filed promptly with the County Clerk, Township Clerk or the Municipal
Clerk, as the case may be, in the area to which it applies.
   (B)   The effect of a declaration of a local disaster is to activate the
emergency operations plan of that political subdivision and to authorize the
furnishing of aid and assistance thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 35.05) (Ord. passed 3-16-1989)
§ 34.06 TESTING OF DISASTER WARNING DEVICES.
   The testing of disaster warning devices including outdoor warning sirens
shall be held only on the first Tuesday of each month at 10:00 a.m. and during
disaster training exercises that are specifically and expressly approved in
advance by the Illinois Emergency Management Agency.
(Prior Code, § 35.06) (Ord. passed 3-16-1989)
§ 34.07 MUTUAL AID ARRANGEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The Coordinator of each Emergency Management Agency may, in
collaboration with other public agencies within his or her immediate vicinity,
develop or cause to be developed mutual aid arrangements with other political
subdivisions within the state for reciprocal disaster response and recovery
assistance in case a disaster is too great to be dealt with unassisted.
      (2)   The mutual aid shall not, however, be effective unless and until
approved by each of the political subdivisions.
      (3)   The arrangements shall be consistent with the County and State
Emergency Operations Plan and County and State Emergency Management Program,
and in the event of a disaster, it shall be the duty of each Emergency
Management Agency to render assistance in accordance with the provisions of the
mutual aid arrangements.
   (B)   The Coordinator of an Emergency Management Agency may, subject to the
approval of the State Director, assist in the negotiation of mutual aid
agreements between this and other states.
(Prior Code, § 35.07) (Ord. passed 3-16-1989)
§ 34.08 COMMUNICATIONS IN TIMES OF DISASTER.
   (A)   The Illinois Emergency Management Agency shall ascertain the means
that exist for rapid and efficient communications in times of disaster.
   (B)   The Illinois Emergency Management Agency shall consider the
desirability of supplementing these communications resources or of integrating
them into a comprehensive state or state-federal telecommunication or other
communications system or network.
   (C)   In studying the character and feasibility of any system or its several
parts, the Illinois Emergency Management Agency shall evaluate the possibility
of multipurpose use thereof for general state and political subdivision
purposes.
   (D)   The Illinois Emergency Management Agency shall make recommendations to
the Governor as appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 35.08) (Ord. passed 3-16-1989)
§ 34.09 IMMUNITY.
   Neither the state, any political subdivision of the state, nor, except in
cases of negligence or willful misconduct, the Governor, the Director, the
Principal Executive Officer of a political subdivision, or the agents,
employees or representatives of any of them, engaged in any emergency
management response or recovery activities, while complying with or attempting
to comply with this subchapter or any rule or regulation promulgated pursuant
to this subchapter, is liable for the death of or any injury to persons, or
damage to property, as a result of the activity. This section does not,
however, affect the right of any person to receive benefits to which he or she
would otherwise be entitled under this subchapter, under the Workers’
Compensation Act, being ILCS Ch. 820, Act 305, or the Workers’ Occupational
Diseases Act, being ILCS Ch. 820, Act 310, or under any pension law, and this
section does not affect the right of any person to receive any benefits or
compensation under any act of Congress.
(Prior Code, § 35.09) (Ord. passed 3-16-1989)
§ 34.10 AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT SERVICES, GIFTS, GRANTS OR LOANS.
   Whenever the federal government or any agency or officer thereof or whenever
any person, firm or corporation shall offer to the state, county or to any
political subdivision thereof, services, equipment, supplies, materials or
funds by way of gift, or grant, for purposes of emergency management, the
county acting through the Board Chairperson or the political subdivision,
acting through the principal executive officer, may accept the offer and upon
the acceptance the Chairperson of the County Board, or the principal executive
officer of the political subdivision, may authorize an officer of the state or
of the political subdivision, as the case may be, to receive the services,
equipment, supplies, materials or funds on behalf of the county or the
political subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 35.10) (Ord. passed 3-16-1989)
§ 34.11 ORDERS, RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Every Emergency Management Agency established pursuant to this
subchapter and the coordinators thereof shall execute and enforce the orders,
rules and regulations as may be made by the Board Chairperson under authority
of this subchapter.
   (B)   Each Emergency Management Agency shall have available for inspection
at its office all orders, rules and regulations made by the Governor, or under
the Governor’s authority.
   (C)   The Illinois Emergency Management Agency shall furnish the orders,
rules and regulations to each Emergency Management Agency.
(Prior Code, § 35.11) (Ord. passed 3-16-1989)
§ 34.12 UTILIZATION OF EXISTING AGENCY, FACILITIES AND PERSONNEL.
   In carrying out the provisions of this subchapter, the Board Chairperson,
the Director and the political subdivisions of the county are directed to
utilize the services, equipment, supplies and facilities of existing
departments, offices and agencies of the county and of the political
subdivisions of the county, to the maximum extent practicable, and the officers
and personnel of all the departments, offices and agencies are directed upon
request, to cooperate with and extend the services and facilities to the Board
Chairperson, the Director and the Emergency Management Agencies.
(Prior Code, § 35.12) (Ord. passed 3-16-1989)
§ 34.13 OATH.
   Each person, whether compensated or non- compensated, who is appointed to
serve in any capacity in the Illinois Emergency Management Agency or an
Emergency Management Agency, shall, before entering upon his duties, take an
oath, in writing, before the Director or before the Coordinator of that
Emergency Management Agency or before other persons authorized to administer
oaths in the county, which oath shall be filed with the Director or with the
coordinator of the Emergency Management Agency with which he or she shall serve
and which oath shall be substantially as follows:
      “I,                                , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I
will support and defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution
of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the
territory, institutions and facilities thereof, both public and private,
against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely,
without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and
faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do
further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I, nor have I been a
member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of
the government of the United States by force or violence; and that during such
time as I am affiliated with the DeWitt County/Clinton Emergency Management
Agency organization, I will not advocate nor become a member of any political
party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the
United States or of this State by force or violence.”
(Prior Code, § 35.13) (Ord. passed 3-16-1989)
§ 34.14 NO PRIVATE LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any person owning or controlling real estate or other premises who
voluntarily and without compensation grants a license or privilege, or
otherwise permits the designation or use of the whole or any part or parts of
the real estate or premises for the purpose of sheltering persons during an
actual or impending disaster, or a disaster training exercise together with his
or her successors in interest, if any, shall not be civilly liable for
negligently causing the death of, or injury to, any person on or about the real
estate or premises under the license, privilege or other permission, or for
negligently causing loss of, or damage to, the property of the person.
   (B)   Any private person, firm or corporation and employees and agents of
the person, firm or corporation in the performance of a contract with, and
under the direction of, the county or any political subdivision of the county
under the provisions of this subchapter shall not be civilly liable for causing
the death of, or injury to, any person or damage to any property, except in the
event of willful misconduct.
   (C)   (1)   The private person, firm or corporation, and any employee or
agent of the person, firm or corporation, who renders assistance or advice at
the request of the county, any political subdivision of the county under this
subchapter during an actual or impending disaster, shall not be civilly liable
for causing the death of, or injury to, any person or damage to any property
except in the event of willful misconduct.
      (2)   The immunities provided in division (C)(1) above shall not apply to
any private person, firm or corporation, or to any employee or agent of the
person, firm or corporation whose act or omission caused, in whole or in part,
the actual or impending disaster and who would otherwise be liable therefor.
(Prior Code, § 35.14) (Ord. passed 3-16-1989)
§ 34.15 POLITICAL ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   No Emergency Management Agency established under the authority of this
subchapter shall be employed directly or indirectly by any person or persons
for political purposes.
(Prior Code, § 35.15) (Ord. passed 3-16-1989)
EMERGENCY/DISASTER PLANS FOR COUNTY BUILDING
§ 34.30 INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   In an effort to provide for the safety of the county building
employees, the following emergency guide has been developed. Should a disaster/
emergency occur, this is your guide for the plan of action that will be used in
such an event. It is not intended to be complete in every detail. It is brief
for simplicity’s sake. Each department head is expected to work out the details
for his or her own department within the framework provided. Some department
may want to add its own departmental plan to the county employee plan. All
employees will be expected to be familiar with the content of this guide.
Should this plan be needed, there will be no time for explanations.
   (B)   Suggested changes to this plan should be made to the County E.M.A.
Coordinator.
(Ord. passed 3- -1991; Ord. passed 7-15-1993; Ord. passed 9-23-2010)
§ 34.31 INTERNAL EMERGENCY/DISASTER PROCEDURES.
   (A)   General. In the event of an internal emergency/disaster such as fire,
explosion or other internal disorder, the fire and evacuation procedure will be
activated.
   (B)   Fire and evacuation procedures.
      (1)   Specific duties for all county building personnel:
         (a)   Know the location of fire alarms in your area;
         (b)   Know the location of fire extinguishers in your area and learn
how to use them;
         (c)   Know the fire exit you are to use;
         (d)   Remain calm - don’t shout “FIRE”; and
         (e)   Walk - don’t run. (Fear and panic can do more damage than fire.)
      (2)   If a person discovers a fire in the county building, he or she
shall:
         (a)   Pull fire alarm;
         (b)   Call Fire Department (911) and give location and type of fire
(if he or she has time);
         (c)   Bring extinguisher to area of fire for use;
         (d)   Close all windows;
         (e)   When fire alarm is activated, all heating ventilation fans are
stopped automatically;
         (f)   Do not turn off lights; and
         (g)   Do not lock your doors, but close vault doors.
      (3)   Each department head or his or her designee should ensure that all
windows are closed, the office is completely evacuated and the office doors are
closed, but not locked.
      (4)   Routes for evacuation.
         (a)   Office workers and the general public will exit the building as
follows:
Office Exit
Office           Exit
Assessor         Front door
Circuit Clerk    Front door
County Clerk     Front door
Court Reporter   Outside door to holding room
Court rooms      Front door
E.M.A.           Maintenance room
Judge’s Office Outside door to holding room
Law Library      Northeast door
Maintenance      Maintenance room
Planning/Zoning  Northwest door
Public Defender  Northeast door
State’s AttorneNortheast door
Treasurer        Northwest door
 
         (b)   Office employees may need to instruct the general public which
door to exit.
      (5)   Move far enough from the building so you will not be in the way of
emergency response personnel.
      (6)   Department heads, or their designees, should account for all of
their employees.
      (7)   Employees may return to their office as soon as the Fire Department
and county officials have declared that it is safe for re-entry.
(Ord. passed 3- -1991; Ord. passed 7-15-1993; Ord. passed 9-23-2010)
§ 34.32 EXTERNAL EMERGENCY/DISASTER PROCEDURES.
   (A)   General. In case of an external emergency/disaster or the threat of
such an incident (i.e., a severe storm, tornado, hazardous materials incident
or earthquake), the following procedures will be activated.
   (B)   Tornado.
      (1)   When the National Weather Service issues a tornado warning for the
county, the County E.M.A. will either announce or telephone that there is a
warning. This will be the signal for county building occupants to “take cover”.
      (2)   If local authorities confirm sighting a tornado near the City of
Clinton, the outdoor warning sirens will be activated. At this time, the office
employees will begin to take safety precautions by doing the following (if time
allows):
         (a)   Shut all windows;
         (b)   Alert the public that may be standing in the lobby of the front
of the building that they should take cover in Courtroom B or in the east-west
hallway toward the rear of the building;
         (c)   Office personnel employees should move away from windows and
doors;
         (d)   Employees of the Circuit Clerk, Treasurer and County Clerk’s
office can take cover in the vaults;
         (e)   Other employees may take cover in small closets or storeroom or
under their workstations. Lie low with hands covering the back of the head to
reduce neck and head injury; and
         (f)   After the storm, check the office for damage. Caution personnel
leaving the building to watch for downed power lines.
(Ord. passed 3- -1991; Ord. passed 7-15-1993; Ord. passed 9-23-2010)
§ 34.33 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INCIDENT.
   (A)   The county building is located one block from Route 51 (city route)
and is also adjacent to the ICG Railroad and within a five-miles radius of the
Clinton Nuclear Power Station. Due to the close proximity to these traffic
routes, the threat of a transportation hazardous materials incident is real.
   (B)   If a hazardous materials incident should occur near the building, the
maintenance department will shut off all outside ventilation systems to prevent
fumes from entering the building. All windows and doors should be closed.
   (C)   Recommendations for further protective actions will come from the
Incident Commander at the scene. These recommendations will be based on
information from the Clinton Fire Department, the County Sheriff and the County
E.M.A.
   (D)   Should it be necessary to evacuate the building, exit procedures will
be given by the Incident Commander.
(Ord. passed 3- -1991; Ord. passed 7-15-1993; Ord. passed 9-23-2010)
§ 34.34 EARTHQUAKE SAFETY PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Earthquakes can occur without any advanced warning. The amount of
damage that could occur in the county area is debatable and dependent upon the
intensity and location of the epicenter.
   (B)   If you are outdoors; stay outdoors; if indoors, stay indoors. In
earthquakes, most injuries occur as people are entering or leaving a building.
   (C)   If an earthquake should occur, employees should take cover under a
heavy desk, table bench or in doorways, halls or against inside walls. Stay
away from glass. Do not use matches or other open flames either during or after
the tremor because of possible gas leaks.
(Ord. passed 3- -1991; Ord. passed 7-15-1993; Ord. passed 9-23-2010)
§ 34.35 BOMB THREATS.
   Should a bomb threat occur in the county building, fire and evacuation
procedures will be initiated. The following exception would be that you and
your fellow co-workers in your department should all congregate at the First
Christian Church parking lot, across from the county building. That way, when
there is a roll call, everyone in your department will be together.
(Ord. passed 3- -1991; Ord. passed 7-15-1993; Ord. passed 9-23-2010)
APPENDIX A: COUNTY BUILDING SIGNATURE PAGE
 
SIGNATURE PAGE
 
 
We, the undersigned, have read the EMERGENCY/DISASTER PLAN FOR DEWITT COUNTY BUILDING EMPLOYEES and understand the procedures described herein:
EMPLOYEE SIGNATURE                     DATE
 
 
                                                                                     
 
                                                                                                                                                                           
 
                                                                                                                                                                           
 
                                                                                                                                                   
 
                                                                                                                                                                           
 
                                                                                                                                                                           
 
                                                                                                                                                                           
 
                                                                                                                                                                           
 
                                                                                                                                                                           
 
                                                                                                                                                                           
 
                                                                                                                                                                           
 
                                                                                                                                                                           
 
                                                                                                                                                                           
 
 
(Ord. passed 3- -1991; Ord. passed 7-15-1993; Ord. passed 9-23-2010)
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION AND FINANCE
Section
Taxation
   
35.01   Charging proportionate share of actual cost of extending and collecting
property taxes
   
35.02   Real estate tax billing
   
35.03   Tax levied for privilege of transferring real estate
   
35.04   Tax levied for privilege of transferring beneficial interests in land
trust holding to real estates
   
35.05   Mobile home privilege tax
   
35.06   Service sales tax
   
35.07   Retailer occupation tax
   
35.08   Supplementary sales tax
Fiscal Affairs
   
35.20   County bills payment procedure
   
35.21   Monthly report of financial status of county offices to be filed
   
35.22   Fees collected to provide for county administration of maintenance and
child support payments
   
35.23   Fees for tax sale or sale under Property Tax Code
TAXATION
§ 35.01 CHARGING PROPORTIONATE SHARE OF ACTUAL COST OF EXTENDING AND COLLECTING
PROPERTY TAXES.
   The County Collector is hereby authorized and directed to determine the
total actual costs to the county of extending and collecting property taxes on
behalf of taxing districts wholly or within the county and charges each taxing
district its proportionate share of those costs. The proportionate share of a
taxing district shall be determined by applying the same percentage to the
actual total cost of extension, as determined by cost analysis by an
independent auditing firm, as its extension in dollar amount bears to the total
extension in dollar amount. The resultant amount shall be billed to each taxing
district after tax collections have been distributed to all taxing districts
wholly or partially within the county. For purposes of this section, the term
TAXING DISTRICT shall include the county.
(Prior Code, § 36.01) (Ord. passed 9-10-1974)
§ 35.02 REAL ESTATE TAX BILLING.
   The County Board carried the motion to expend funds to go off of the
accelerated tax billing system and return to the regular billing cycle.
(Prior Code, § 36.02) (Motion carried 1-17-1991)
§ 35.03 TAX LEVIED FOR PRIVILEGE OF TRANSFERRING REAL ESTATE.
   (A)   A county tax is imposed on the privilege of transferring title to real
estate situated in the county as represented by the deed that is filed for
recordation at the rate of $0.25 for each $500 of value or fraction thereof
stated in the declaration provided in division (C) below. If, however, the real
estate is transferred subject to a mortgage, the amount of the mortgage
remaining outstanding at the time of transfer shall not be included in the
basis of computing the tax.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) below, no deed shall be accepted
for filing by the Recorder of Deeds unless the tax imposed by division (A)
above has been paid.
   (C)   The Recorder of Deeds shall at the time of filing collect the tax. The
valuation to be used for the collection of the county tax shall be the same as
the valuation used for the collection and imposition of the state real estate
transfer tax has been paid in the same amount as shown by the stamps.
   (D)   The following deeds shall be exempt from this section, except as
hereinafter provided:
      (1)   Deeds representing real estate transfers made before the effective
date of this Act, but recorded after the effective date;
      (2)   Deeds to property acquired by any governmental body or from any
governmental body or deeds to property between governmental bodies, or by or
from any corporation, society or association, foundation or institution
organized and operated exclusively for charitable, religious or education
purposes;
      (3)   Deeds which secure debt or other obligation;
      (4)   Deeds which, without additional consideration, confirm, correct,
modify or supplement a deed previously recorded;
      (5)   Deeds where the actual consideration is less than $100;
      (6)   Tax deeds;
      (7)   Deeds of release of property which is security for a debt or other
obligation;
      (8)   Deeds of partition;
      (9)   Deeds made pursuant to mergers, consolidations or transfers or
sales of substantially all of the assets of corporations pursuant to plans of
reorganization;
      (10)   Deeds made by subsidiary corporation to its parent corporation for
no consideration other than the cancellation or surrender of the subsidiary’s
stock;
      (11)   Deeds wherein there is an actual exchange of real estate; except
that, the money difference or money’s worth paid from one to the other shall
not be exempt from the tax;
      (12)   Deeds representing transfers subject to the imposition of a
documentary stamp tax imposed by the government of the United States; except
that, the deeds shall not be exempt from filing the declaration; and
      (13)   Any future exemptions enacted by the state.
   (E)   All proceeds resulting from the collection of the tax imposed by this
section shall be paid to the County Treasurer by or before the tenth day of
each month.
   (F)   The tax herein imposed shall be in addition to all other occupation or
privilege taxes imposed by the state or by any municipal corporation or
political subdivision thereof.
(Prior Code, § 36.03) (Ord. passed 6-12-1979)
§ 35.04 TAX LEVIED FOR PRIVILEGE OF TRANSFERRING BENEFICIAL INTERESTS IN LAND
TRUST HOLDING TO REAL ESTATES.
   (A)   A tax is imposed upon the privilege of transferring a beneficial
interest in a land trust holding title to real estate, as represented by the
trust document that is filed for recordation, at the rate of $0.25 for each
$500 of value or fraction thereof stated in the declaration required by § 3 of
the Real Estate Transfer Tax Act, being ILCS Ch. 225, Act 225 of the state. If,
however, the interest is transferred subject to mortgage, the amount of
mortgage remaining outstanding at the time of transfer shall not be included in
the basis of computing the tax.
   (B)   The tax shall be collected by the Recorder prior to recording the
trust document or registering the beneficial interest in a land trust holding
title subject to the tax. All trust documents exempted in § 4 of the Real
Estate Transfer Tax Act, being ILCS Ch. 225, Act 225, shall also be exempt from
any tax imposed pursuant to this section.
   (C)   Payment of this tax and the amount paid shall be indicated on each
recorded trust document by the Recorder. The Recorder may write or type the
information on the trust document or place the information on the trust
document with a rubber stamp or other device. The information shall be affixed
to the trust document by the Recorder either before or after recording as
requested by the grantee.
   (D)   The tax imposed pursuant to this section shall be in addition to all
other occupation and privilege taxes imposed by the state, the county or any
municipal corporation or political subdivision thereof.
   (E)   All words used in this section shall have the same meaning as the
words are used in the Real Estate Transfer Tax Act, being ILCS Ch. 225, Act 225
of the state.
   (F)   The tax imposed pursuant to this section shall be collected on all
trust documents transferring a beneficial interest in a land trust holding
title to real estate presented for recording on and after 1-1-1986; except
that, no tax shall be collected on recordation of trust documents executed
before, but recorded after 1-1-1986.
(Prior Code, § 36.04) (Ord. passed 1-16-1986)
§ 35.05 MOBILE HOME PRIVILEGE TAX.
   A tax is imposed upon mobile homes situated in this county pursuant to the
authority granted by § 15 of Public Act 77-1472 duly enacted and signed into
law on 9-8-1971, otherwise known as the privilege tax on mobile homes, being
ILCS Ch. 210, Act 115, in the amount of $0.125 per square foot contained in
each inhabited mobile home; this tax is to be paid by the owner of the mobile
home.
(Prior Code, § 36.05) (Ord. passed 3-14-1972)
§ 35.06 SERVICE SALES TAX.
   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged, in the unincorporated area of the
county, in the business of making sales of service at the rate of 1% of the
cost price of all tangible personal property transferred by the servicepeople
either in the form of tangible person property or in the form of real estate as
an incident to a sale of service in accordance with § 25.05-2 of an Act to
Revise the Law in Relation to Counties, effective 10-1-1969.
(Prior Code, § 36.06) (Motion carried 9-9-1969)
§ 35.07 RETAILER OCCUPATION TAX.
   A tax shall be imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property at retail in the county at a rate of 0.75% of the
gross receipts from the sales made in the course of the business. These taxes
so collected shall be paid into the General County Account.
(Prior Code, § 36.07) (Res. passed 4-18-1933; Motion carried 8-10-1959; Res.
passed 9-11-1962; Res. passed 7-11-1969)
§ 35.08 SUPPLEMENTARY SALES TAX.
   The County Board shall adopt the one-fourth supplementary sales tax.
(Prior Code, § 36.08) (Motion carried 1-14-1988)
FISCAL AFFAIRS
§ 35.20 COUNTY BILLS PAYMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   No county bills, with the exception of payroll, court ordered
payments, and the exceptions contained within this section shall be paid prior
to County Board approval.
   (B)   All monthly claims against the county must be submitted to the County
Clerk no later than two days prior to the appropriate committee meeting. Claims
that do not meet this deadline shall be forwarded to the County Clerk to be
placed upon the agenda for the next full Board meeting.
   (C)   Claims of more than $1,000 must be taken to the full County Board for
approval.
   (D)   Claims less than $1,000 shall be approved at the committee level by a
majority vote. If any member of the Board has issue with a bill to be approved
at the committee level he or she shall contact the Chair of the respective
committee or appear at the committee meeting to voice his or her concern. Any
Board member exercising this option shall not have a vote at the committee
unless he or she sits upon that committee.
   (E)   The County Board as a whole may grant pre-approval for any expense by
a majority vote and grant the authority to a committee or individual Board
member to make a purchase within a given dollar limit. The committee or Board
member may not exceed the dollar limit granted by the full Board, and shall
have no authority to bind the county for any amount in excess.
(Prior Code, § 38.15) (Motion carried 7-14-1981; 2-17-2000; Ord. passed 3-19-
2009; Res. 15-7, passed 3-19-2015)
§ 35.21 MONTHLY REPORT OF FINANCIAL STATUS OF COUNTY OFFICES TO BE FILED.
   All county offices in keeping with Ill. Rev. Stat. 35-1.2C shall file a
monthly report of financial status of all fees and salary accounts carried in
separate accounts, listing all receipts and disbursements in detail.
(Prior Code, § 38.16) (Motion carried 11-14-1972)
§ 35.22 FEES COLLECTED TO PROVIDE FOR COUNTY ADMINISTRATION OF MAINTENANCE AND
CHILD SUPPORT PAYMENTS.
   (A)   The Circuit Clerk of the county shall annually collect a fee in the
amount of $36 from each person making maintenance and child support payments
through the Circuit Clerk’s office for administering the collection and
distribution of maintenance and child support payments.
   (B)   This sum shall be in addition to and separate from amounts ordered to
be paid as maintenance or child support.
   (C)   These amounts collected shall be deposited in a separate fund called
the Maintenance and Child Support Collection Fund of the county. The Circuit
Clerk shall be the custodian of the Fund and shall use those funds to further
maintenance and child support collection efforts in his or her office.
(Prior Code, § 38.17) (Ord. passed 9-15-1988)
§ 35.23 FEE FOR TAX SALE OR SALE UNDER PROPERTY TAX CODE.
   (A)   Any person making the purchase of property at a tax sale or any sale
under the Property Tax Code shall pay a fee of $60.
   (B)   The $60 fee must be paid prior to the issuance of a certificate of
purchase.
   (C)   The $60 fee shall be included in the amount required for redemption.
   (D)   The Treasurer of DeWitt County shall hold the amounts collected in
trust for the citizens of the county and shall maintain a special fund and make
disbursements as authorized pursuant to ILCS Ch. 35, Act 200, § 21-330 or any
other state statute that may be enacted in the future pertaining to the fee
collected.
(Res. 2015-08, passed 8-20-2015)
CHAPTER 36: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Presumption
   
36.02   Definitions
   
36.03   Records of funds
   
36.04   Payrolls
   
36.05   Arrest reports and criminal history records
   
36.06   Settlement and severance agreements
   
36.07   Information for inspection
   
36.08   Requests for commercial purposes
   
36.09   Recurrent requesters
   
36.10   County not to interpret or advise requesters
   
36.11   Freedom of Information Officers
   
36.12   Items to be displayed
   
36.13   Current list of types or categories of records
   
36.14   Authority to charge fees
   
36.15   Exemptions
   
36.16   Statutory exemptions
   
36.17   When request denied
   
36.18   Public access counselor; opinions
   
36.19   Relief for denial
   
36.20   Administrative review
Fee Schedules
   
36.30   County Clerk fee schedule
   
36.31   Laredo subscription pricing
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 PRESUMPTION.
   All records in the custody or possession of a county are presumed to be open
to inspection or copying. Any county that asserts that a record is exempt from
disclosure has the burden of proving by clear and convincing evidence that it
is exempt.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, § 1)
§ 36.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The use of any part of a public record or records, or
information derived from public records, in any form for sale, resale, or
solicitation or advertisement for sales or services. For purposes of this
definition, requests made by news media and non-profit, scientific, or academic
organizations shall not be considered to be made for a COMMERCIAL PURPOSE when
the principal purpose of the request is (i) to access and disseminate
information concerning news and current or passing events, (ii) for articles of
opinion or features of interest to the public, or (iii) for the purpose of
academic, scientific, or public research or education.
   COPYING. The reproduction of any public record by means of any photographic,
electronic, mechanical or other process, device or means now known or hereafter
developed and available to the county.
   HEAD OF THE COUNTY. The president, mayor, chairman, presiding officer,
director, superintendent, manager, supervisor or individual otherwise holding
primary executive and administrative authority for the county, or that person's
duly authorized designee.
   NEWS MEDIA. A newspaper or other periodical issued at regular intervals
whether in print or electronic format, a news service whether in print or
electronic format, a radio station, a television station, a television network,
a community antenna television service, or a person or corporation engaged in
making news reels or other motion picture news for public showing.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, organization or
association, acting individually or as a group.
   PRIVATE INFORMATION. Unique identifiers, including a person1s social
security number, driver's license number, employee identification number,
biometric identifiers, personal financial information, passwords or other
access codes, medical records, home or personal telephone numbers, and personal
email addresses. Private information also includes home address and personal
license plates, except as otherwise provided by lav/ or when compiled without
possibility of attribution to any person. For a public body that is a HIPAA-
covered entity, PRIVATE INFORMATION includes electronic medical records, and
all information, including demographic information, contained within or
extracted from an electronic medical records system operated or maintained by
the public body in compliance with state and federal medical privacy laws and
regulations, including, but not limited to, the Health Insurance Portability
and Accountability Act and its regulations, 45 CFR Parts 160 and 164. As used
in this definition, HIPAA-COVERED ENTITY has the meaning given to the term
COVERED ENTITY in 45 CFR 160.103.
   COUNTY. The legislative entity, any subsidiary bodies of the foregoing
including but not limited to committees and subcommittees thereof, and a.
COUNTY does not include a child death review team or the Illinois Child Death
Review Teams Executive Council established under the Child Death Review Team
Act, being ILCS Ch. 20, Act 515.
   PUBLIC BODY. All legislative, executive, administrative, or advisory bodies
of the state, state universities and colleges, counties, townships, cities,
villages, incorporated towns, school districts and all other municipal
corporations, boards, bureaus, committees, or commissions of this state, any
subsidiary bodies of any of the foregoing including but not limited to
committees and subcommittees thereof, and a School Finance Authority created
under Article 1E of the School Code. PUBLIC BODY does not include a child death
review team or the Illinois Child Death Review Teams Executive Council
established under the Child Death Review Team Act, being ILCS Ch. 20, Act 515,
or a regional youth advisory board or the Statewide Youth Advisory Board
established under the Department of Children and Family Services Statewide
Youth Advisory Board Act.
   PUBLIC RECORDS. All records, reports, forms, writings, letters, memoranda,
books, papers, maps, photographs, microfilms, cards, tapes, recordings,
electronic data processing records, electronic communications, recorded
information and all other documentary materials pertaining to the transaction
of public business, regardless of physical form or characteristics, having been
prepared by or for, or having been or being used by, received by, in the
possession of, or under the control of the county.
   RECURRENT REQUESTER.
      (1)   As used in §
36.09, means a person that, in the 12 months immediately preceding the request,
has submitted to the county (i) a minimum of 50 requests for records, (ii) a
minimum of 15 requests for records within a 30-day period, or (iii) a minimum
of seven requests for records within a seven-day period. For purposes of this
definition, requests made by news media and non-profit, scientific, or academic
organizations shall not be considered in calculating the number of requests
made in the time periods in this definition when the principal purpose of the
requests is (i) to access and disseminate information concerning news and
current or passing events, (ii) for articles of opinion or features of interest
to the public, or (iii) for the purpose of academic, scientific, or public
research or education.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition, REQUEST means a written
document (or oral request, if the county chooses to honor oral requests) that
is submitted to the county via personal delivery, mail, telefax, electronic
mail, or other means available to the county and that identifies the particular
public record the requester seeks. One request may identify multiple records to
be inspected or copied.
   SEVERANCE AGREEMENT. A mutual agreement between any public body and its
employee for the employee’s resignation in exchange for payment by the public
body.
   VOLUMINOUS REQUEST. A request that: (i) includes more than five individual
requests for more than five different categories of records or a combination of
individual requests that total requests for more than five different categories
of records in a period of 20 business days; or (ii) requires thecompilation of
more than 500 letter or legal-sized pages of public records unless a single
requested record exceeds 500 pages. SINGLE REQUESTED RECORD may include, but is
not limited to, one report, form, e-mail, letter, memorandum, book, map,
microfilm, tape, or recording.
      (1)   VOLUMINOUS REQUEST does not include a request made by news media
and non-profit, scientific, or academic organizations if the principal purpose
of the request is: (i) to access and disseminate information concerning news
and current or passing events; (ii) for articles of opinion or features of
interest to the public; or (iii) for the purpose of academic, scientific, or
public research or education.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition, REQUEST means a written
document, or oral request, if the public body chooses to honor oral requests,
that is submitted to a public body via personal delivery, mail, telefax,
electronic mail, or other means available to the public body and that
identifies the particular public record or records the requester seeks. One
request may identify multiple individual records to be inspected or copied.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, § 2)
§ 36.03 RECORDS OF FUNDS.
   All records relating to the obligation, receipt, and use of public funds of
the state, units of local government, and school districts are public records
subject to inspection and copying by the public.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, § 2.5)
§ 36.04 PAYROLLS.
   Certified payroll records submitted to the county under § 5(a)(2) of the
Prevailing Wage Act, being ILCS Ch. 820, Act 130, are public records subject to
inspection and copying in accordance with the provisions of this chapter;
except that contractors' employees' addresses, telephone numbers, and social
security numbers must be redacted by the county prior to disclosure.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, § 2.10)
§ 36.05 ARREST REPORTS AND CRIMINAL HISTORY RECORDS.
   (A)   Arrest reports. The following chronologically maintained arrest and
criminal history information maintained by state or local criminal justice
agencies shall be furnished as soon as practical, but in no event later than 72
hours after the arrest, notwithstanding the time limits otherwise provided for
in §
36.07:
      (1)   Information that identifies the individual, including the name,
age, address, and photograph, when and if available;
      (2)   Information detailing any charges relating to the arrest;
      (3)   The time and location of the arrest;
      (4)   The name of the investigating or arresting law enforcement agency;
      (5)   If the individual is incarcerated, the amount of any bail or bond;
and
      (6)   If the individual is incarcerated, the time and date that the
individual was received into, discharged from, or transferred from the
arresting agency's custody.
   (B)   Criminal history records. The following documents maintained by the
county pertaining to criminal history record information are public records
subject to inspection and copying by the public pursuant to this chapter:
      (1)   Court records that are public;
      (2)   Records that are otherwise available under state or local law; and
      (3)   Records in which the requesting party is the individual identified,
except as provided under §
36.15(A)(5)(f).
   (C)   Information withheld. Information described in division (A)(3) through
(6) may be withheld if it is determined that disclosure would:
      (1)   Interfere with pending or actually and reasonably contemplated law
enforcement proceedings conducted by any law enforcement agency;
      (2)   Endanger the life or physical safety of law enforcement or
correctional personnel or any other person; or
      (3)   Compromise the security of any correctional facility.
   (D)   Confidentiality. The provisions of this section do not supersede the
confidentiality provisions for law enforcement or arrest records of the
Juvenile Court Act of 1987, being ILCS Ch. 705, Act 405.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the requirements of division (A), a law enforcement
agency may not publish booking photographs, commonly known as “mugshots,” on
its social media website in connection with civil offenses, petty offenses,
business offenses, Class C misdemeanors, and Class B misdemeanors unless the
booking photograph is posted to social media to assist in the search for a
missing person or to assist in the search for a fugitive, person of interest,
or individual wanted in relation to a crime other than a petty offense,
business offense, Class C misdemeanor, or Class B misdemeanor.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, § 2.15)
§ 36.06 SETTLEMENT AND SEVERANCE AGREEMENTS.
   All settlement and severance agreements entered into by or on behalf of the
county are public records subject to inspection and copying by the public,
provided that information exempt from disclosure under § 36.15 may be redacted.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, § 2.20)
§ 36.07 INFORMATION FOR INSPECTION.
   (A)   The county shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, except as otherwise provided in §
36.15 and ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, § 8.5. Notwithstanding any other law, the county
may not grant to any person or entity, whether by contract, license, or
otherwise, the exclusive right to access and disseminate any public record as
defined in this chapter.
   (B)   Subject to the fee provisions of §
36.14, the county shall promptly provide, to any person who submits a request,
a copy of any public record required to be disclosed by division (A) above and
shall certify the copy if so requested.
   (C)   Requests for inspection or copies shall be made in writing and
directed to the county. Written requests may be submitted to the county via
personal delivery, mail, telefax, or other means available to the county. The
county may honor oral requests for inspection or copying. The county may not
require that a request be submitted on a standard form or require the requester
to specify the purpose for a request, except to determine whether the records
are requested for a commercial purpose or whether to grant a request for a fee
waiver. All requests for inspection and copying received by the county shall
immediately be forwarded to its Freedom of Information Officer or designee.
   (D)   The county shall, promptly, either comply with or deny a request for
public records within five business days after its receipt of the request,
unless the time for response is properly extended under division (E) below.
Denial shall be in writing as provided in §
36.17. Failure to comply with a written request, extend the time for response,
or deny a request within five business days after its receipt shall be
considered a denial of the request. If the county fails to respond to a request
within the requisite periods in this section but thereafter provides the
requester with copies of the requested public records may not impose a fee for
the copies. If the county fails to respond to a request received may not treat
the request as unduly burdensome under division (G).
   (E)   (1)   The time for response under this section may be extended by the
county for not more than five business days from the original due date for any
of the following reasons:
         (a)   The requested records are stored in whole or in part at other
locations than the office having charge of the requested records;
         (b)   The request requires the collection of a substantial number of
specified records;
         (c)   The request is couched in categorical terms and requires an
extensive search for the records responsive to it;
         (d)   The requested records have not been located in the course of
routine search and additional efforts are being made to locate them;
         (e)   The requested records require examination and evaluation by
personnel having the necessary competence and discretion to determine if they
are exempt from disclosure under §
36.15 or should be revealed only with appropriate deletions;
         (f)   The request for records cannot be complied with by the county
within the time limits prescribed by division (C) above without unduly
burdening or interfering with the operations of the county;
         (g)   There is a need for consultation, which shall be conducted with
all practicable speed, with another public body or among two or more components
of a public body having a substantial interest in the determination or in the
subject matter of the request.
      (2)   The person making a request and the county may agree in writing to
extend the time for compliance for a period to be determined by the parties. If
the requester and the county agree to extend the period for compliance, a
failure by the county to comply with any previous deadlines shall not be
treated as a denial of the request for the records.
   (F)   When additional time is required for any of the above reasons, the
county shall, within five business days after receipt of the request, notify
the person making the request of the reasons for the extension and the date by
which the response will be forthcoming. Failure to respond within the time
permitted for extension shall be considered a denial of the request. If the
county fails to respond to a request within the time permitted for extension
but thereafter provides the requester with copies of the requested public
records may not impose a fee for those copies. If the county requests an
extension and subsequently fails to respond to the request may not treat the
request as unduly burdensome under division (G).
   (G)   (1)   Requests calling for all records falling within a category shall
be complied with unless compliance with the request would be unduly burdensome
for the complying county and there is no way to narrow the request and the
burden on the county outweighs the public interest in the information. Before
invoking this exemption, the county shall extend to the person making the
request an opportunity to confer with it in an attempt to reduce the request to
manageable proportions. If anybody responds to a categorical request by stating
that compliance would unduly burden its operation and the conditions described
above are met, it shall do so in writing, specifying the reasons why it would
be unduly burdensome and the extent to which compliance will so burden the
operations of the county. The response shall be treated as a denial of the
request for information.
      (2)   Repeated requests from the same person for the same records that
are unchanged or identical to records previously provided or properly denied
under this chapter shall be deemed unduly burdensome under this provision.
   (H)   The county may promulgate rules and regulations in conformity with the
provisions of this section pertaining to the availability of records and
procedures to be followed, including:
      (1)   The times and places where the records will be made available, and
      (2)   The persons from whom the records may be obtained.
   (I)   The time periods for compliance or denial of a request to inspect or
copy records set out in this section shall not apply to requests for records
made for a commercial purpose, requests by a recurrent requester, or voluminous
requests. The requests shall be subject to the provisions of ILCS Ch. 5, Act
140, § 3.6 and §§
36.08 and
36.09 below.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, § 3)
§ 36.08 REQUESTS FOR COMMERCIAL PURPOSES.
   (A)   The county shall respond to a request for records to be used for a
commercial purpose within 21 working days after receipt. The response shall (i)
provide to the requester an estimate of the time required by the county to
provide the records requested and an estimate of the fees to be charged, which
the county may require the person to pay in full before copying the requested
documents, (ii) deny the request pursuant to one or more of the exemptions set
out in this chapter, (iii) notify the requester that the request is unduly
burdensome and extend an opportunity to the requester to attempt to reduce the
request to manageable proportions, or (iv) provide the records requested.
   (B)   Unless the records are exempt from disclosure, the county shall comply
with a request within a reasonable period considering the size and complexity
of the request, and giving priority to records requested for non-commercial
purposes.
   (C)   It is a violation of this chapter for a person to knowingly obtain a
public record for a commercial purpose without disclosing that it is for a
commercial purpose, if requested to do so by the county.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, § 3.1)
§ 36.09 RECURRENT REQUESTERS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to the contrary, the
county shall respond to a request from a recurrent requester, as defined in §
36.02, within 21 business days after receipt. The response shall (i) provide to
the requester an estimate of the time required by the county to provide the
records requested and an estimate of the fees to be charged, which the county
may require the person to pay in full before copying the requested documents,
(ii) deny the request pursuant to one or more of the exemptions set out in this
chapter, (iii) notify the requester that the request is unduly burdensome and
extend an opportunity to the requester to attempt to reduce the request to
manageable proportions, or (iv) provide the records requested.
   (B)   Within five business days after receiving a request from a recurrent
requester, as defined in §
36.02, the county shall notify the requester (i) that the county is treating
the request as a request under §
36.02, (ii) of the reasons why the county is treating the request as a request
under §
36.02, and (iii) that the county will send an initial response within 21
business days after receipt in accordance with division (A) above. The county
shall also notify the requester of the proposed responses that can be asserted
pursuant to division (A) above.
   (C)   Unless the records are exempt from disclosure, the county shall comply
with a request within a reasonable period considering the size and complexity
of the request.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, § 3.2)
§ 36.10 COUNTY NOT TO INTERPRET OR ADVISE REQUESTERS.
   This chapter is not intended to compel public bodies to interpret or advise
requesters as to the meaning or significance of the public records.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, § 3.3)
§ 36.11 FREEDOM OF INFORMATION OFFICERS.
   (A)   The county shall designate one or more officials or employees to act
as its freedom of information officer or officers. Except in instances when
records are furnished immediately, freedom of information officers, or their
designees, shall receive requests submitted to the county under this chapter,
ensure that the county responds to requests in a timely fashion, and issue
responses under this chapter. Freedom of Information Officers shall develop a
list of documents or categories of records that the county shall immediately
disclose upon request. Upon receiving a request for a public record, the
Freedom of Information Officer shall:
      (1)   Note the date the county receives the written request;
      (2)   Compute the day on which the period for response will expire and
make a notation of that date on the written request;
      (3)   Maintain an electronic or paper copy of a written request,
including all documents submitted with the request until the request has been
complied with or denied; and
      (4)   Create a file for the retention of the original request, a copy of
the response, a record of written communications with the requester, and a copy
of other communications.
   (B)   All Freedom of Information Officers shall, within six months after the
effective date of this Freedom of Information Act, being ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140,
successfully complete an electronic training curriculum to be developed by the
Public Access Counselor and thereafter successfully complete an annual training
program. Thereafter, whenever a new freedom of information officer is
designated by the county, that person shall successfully complete the
electronic training curriculum within 30 days after assuming the position.
Successful completion of the required training curriculum within the periods
provided shall be a prerequisite to continue serving as a Freedom of
Information Officer.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, § 3.5)
§ 36.12 ITEMS TO BE DISPLAYED.
   (A)   The county shall prominently display at each of its administrative or
regional offices, make available for inspection and copying, and send through
the mail if requested, each of the following:
      (1)   A brief description of itself, which will include, but not be
limited to, a short summary of its purpose, a block diagram giving its
functional subdivisions, the total amount of its operating budget, the number
and location of all of its separate offices, the approximate number of full and
part-time employees, and the identification and membership of any board,
commission, committee, or council which operates in an advisory capacity
relative to the operation of the county, or which exercises control over its
policies or procedures, or to which the county is required to report and be
answerable for its operations; and
      (2)   A brief description of the methods whereby the public may request
information and public records, a directory designating the freedom of
information officer or officers, the address where requests for public records
should be directed, and any fees allowable under §
36.14.
   (B)   If the county maintains a website, it shall also post this information
on its website.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, § 4)
§ 36.13 CURRENT LIST OF TYPES OR CATEGORIES OF RECORDS.
   As to public records prepared or received after the effective date of the
act codified herein, the county shall maintain and make available for
inspection and copying a reasonably current list of all types or categories of
records under its control. The list shall be reasonably detailed in order to
aid persons in obtaining access to public records pursuant to this chapter. The
county shall furnish upon request a description of the manner in which public
records stored by means of electronic data processing may be obtained in a form
comprehensible to persons lacking knowledge of computer language or printout
format.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, § 5)
§ 36.14 AUTHORITY TO CHARGE FEES.
   (A)   When a person requests a copy of a record maintained in an electronic
format, the county shall furnish it in the electronic format specified by the
requester, if feasible. If it is not feasible to furnish the public records in
the specified electronic format, then the county shall furnish it in the format
in which it is maintained by the county, or in paper format at the option of
the requester. The county may charge the requester for the actual cost of
purchasing the recording medium, whether disc, diskette, tape, or other medium.
If a request is not a request for a commercial purpose or a voluminous request,
a county may not charge the requester for the costs of any search for and
review of the records or other personnel costs associated with reproducing the
records. Except to the extent that the General Assembly expressly provides,
statutory fees applicable to copies of public records when furnished in a paper
format shall not be applicable to those records when furnished in an electronic
format.
      (1)   If a voluminous request is for electronic records and those records
are not in a portable document format (PDF), the county may charge up to $20
for not more than two megabytes of data, up to $40 for more than two but not
more than four megabytes of data, and up to $100 for more than four megabytes
of data. If a voluminous request is for electronic records and those records
are in a portable document format, the county may charge up to $20 for not more
than 80 megabytes of data, up to $40 for more than 80 megabytes but not more
than 160 megabytes of data, and up to $100 for more than 160 megabytes of data.
If the responsive electronic records are in both a portable document format and
not in a portable document format, the county may separate the fees and charge
the requester under both fee scales.
      (2)   If a county imposes a fee pursuant to division (A)(1), it must
provide the requestor with an accounting of all fees, costs, and personnel
hours in connection with the request for public records.
   (B)   Except when a fee is otherwise fixed by statute, the county may charge
fees reasonably calculated to reimburse its actual cost for reproducing and
certifying public records and for the use, by any person, of the equipment of
the county to copy records. No fees shall be charged for the first 50 pages of
black and white, letter or legal sized copies requested by a requester. The fee
for black and white, letter or legal sized copies shall not exceed $0.15 per
page. If the county provides copies in color or in a size other than letter or
legal, the county may not charge more than its actual cost for reproducing the
records. In calculating its actual cost for reproducing records or for the use
of the equipment of the county to reproduce records, the county shall not
include the costs of any search for and review of the records or other
personnel costs associated with reproducing the records, except for commercial
requests as provided in division (F) below. The fees shall be imposed according
to a standard scale of fees, established and made public by the county imposing
them. The cost for certifying a record shall not exceed $1.
   (C)   Documents shall be furnished without charge or at a reduced charge, as
determined by the county, if the person requesting the documents states the
specific purpose for the request and indicates that a waiver or reduction of
the fee is in the public interest. Waiver or reduction of the fee is in the
public interest if the principal purpose of the request is to access and
disseminate information regarding the health, safety and welfare or the legal
rights of the general public and is not for the principal purpose of personal
or commercial benefit. For purposes of this division, COMMERCIAL BENEFIT shall
not apply to requests made by news media when the principal purpose of the
request is to access and disseminate information regarding the health, safety,
and welfare or the legal rights of the general public. In setting the amount of
the waiver or reduction, the county may take into consideration the amount of
materials requested and the cost of copying them.
   (D)   The imposition of a fee not consistent with divisions (A) and (B)
above constitutes a denial of access to public records for the purposes of
judicial review.
   (E)   The fee for each abstract of a driver's record shall be as provided in
§ 6-118 of The Illinois Vehicle Code, being ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, approved 9-29-
1969, as amended, whether furnished as a paper copy or as an electronic copy.
   (F)   The county may charge up to $10 for each hour spent by personnel in
searching for and retrieving a requested record or examining the records for
necessary redactions. No fees shall be charged for the first eight hours spent
by personnel in searching for or retrieving a requested record. The county may
charge the actual cost of retrieving and transporting public records from an
off-site storage facility when the public records are maintained by a third-
party storage company under contract with the county. If the county imposes a
fee pursuant to this division, it must provide the requester with an accounting
of all fees, costs, and personnel hours in connection with the request for
public records. The provisions of this division apply only to commercial
requests.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, § 6)
§ 36.15 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   When a request is made to inspect or copy a public record that
contains information that is exempt from disclosure under this section, but
also contains information that is not exempt from disclosure, the county may
elect to redact the information that is exempt. The county shall make the
remaining information available for inspection and copying. Subject to this
requirement, the following shall be exempt from inspection and copying:
      (1)   Information specifically prohibited from disclosure by federal or
state law or rules and regulations implementing federal or state law.
      (2)   Private information, unless disclosure is required by another
provision of this chapter, a state or federal law or a court order.
      (3)   Files, documents, and other data or databases maintained by one or
more law enforcement agencies and specifically designed to provide information
to one or more law enforcement agencies regarding the physical or mental status
of one or more individual subjects.
      (4)   Personal information contained within public records, the
disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal
privacy, unless the disclosure is consented to in writing by the individual
subjects of the information. UNWARRANTED INVASION OF PERSONAL PRIVACY means the
disclosure of information that is highly personal or objectionable to a
reasonable person and in which the subject's right to privacy outweighs any
legitimate public interest in obtaining the information. The disclosure of
information that bears on the public duties of public employees and officials
shall not be considered an invasion of personal privacy.
      (5)   Records in the possession of the county created in the course of
administrative enforcement proceedings, and any law enforcement or correctional
agency for law, enforcement purposes, but only to the extent that disclosure
would:
         (a)   Interfere with pending or actually and reasonably contemplated
law enforcement proceedings conducted by any law enforcement or correctional
agency that is the recipient of the request;
         (b)   Interfere with active administrative enforcement proceedings
conducted by the county that is the recipient of the request;
         (c)   Create a substantial likelihood that a person will be deprived
of a fair trial or an impartial hearing;
         (d)   Unavoidably disclose the identity of a confidential source,
confidential information furnished only by the confidential source, or persons
who file complaints with or provide information to administrative,
investigative, law enforcement, or penal agencies; except that the identities
of witnesses to traffic accidents, traffic accident reports, and rescue reports
shall be provided by agencies of local government, except when disclosure would
interfere with an active criminal investigation conducted by the agency that is
the recipient of the request;
         (e)   Disclose unique or specialized investigative techniques other
than those generally used and known or disclose internal documents of
correctional agencies related to detection, observation or investigation of
incidents of crime or misconduct, and disclosure would result in demonstrable
harm to the agency or the county that is the recipient of the request;
         (f)   Endanger the life or physical safety of law enforcement
personnel or any other person or by the agency that is the recipient of the
request.
         (g)   Obstruct an ongoing criminal investigation by the agency that is
the recipient of the request. (Text of section from P.A. 97-813)
      (6)   A law enforcement record created for law enforcement purposes and
contained in a shared electronic record management system if the law
enforcement agency that is the recipient of the request did not create the
record, did not participate in or have a role in any of the events which are
the subject of the record, and only has access to the record through the shared
electronic record management system.(Text of section from P.A. 97-1065)
      (7)   Records that relate to or affect the security of correctional
institutions and detention facilities.
      (8)   Records requested by persons committed to the Department of
Corrections if those materials are available in the library of the correctional
facility where the inmate is confined.
      (9)   Records requested by persons committed to the Department of
Corrections if those materials include records from staff members' personnel
files, staff rosters, or other staffing assignment information.
      (10)   Records requested by persons committed to the Department of
Corrections if those materials are available through an administrative request
to the Department of Corrections.
      (11)   Preliminary drafts, notes, recommendations, memoranda and other
records in which opinions are expressed, or policies or actions are formulated,
except that a specific record or relevant portion of a record shall not be
exempt when the record is publicly cited and identified by the head of the
county. The exemption provided in this division (A)(11) extends to all those
records of officers and agencies of the General Assembly that pertain to the
preparation of legislative documents.
      (12)   (a)   Trade secrets and commercial or financial information
obtained from a person or business where the trade secrets or commercial or
financial information are furnished under a claim that they are proprietary,
privileged or confidential, and that disclosure of the trade secrets or
commercial or financial information would cause competitive harm to the person
or business, and only insofar as the claim directly applies to the records
requested.
         (b)   The information included under this exemption includes all trade
secrets and commercial or financial information obtained by the county,
including a public pension fund, from a private equity fund or a privately held
company within the investment portfolio of a private equity fund as a result of
either investing or evaluating a potential investment of public funds in a
private equity fund. The exemption contained in this item does not apply to the
aggregate financial performance information of a private equity fund, nor to
the identity of the fund's managers or general partners. The exemption
contained in this item does not apply to the identity of a privately held
company within the investment portfolio of a private equity fund, unless the
disclosure of the identity of a privately held company may cause competitive
harm.
         (c)   Nothing contained in this division (A)(12) shall be construed to
prevent a person or business from consenting to disclosure.
      (13)   Proposals and bids for any contract, grant, or agreement,
including information which if it were disclosed would frustrate procurement or
give an advantage to any person proposing to enter into a contractor agreement
with the county, until an award or final selection is made. Information
prepared by or for the county in preparation of a bid solicitation shall be
exempt until an award or final selection is made.
      (14)   Valuable formulae, computer graphic systems, designs, drawings and
research data obtained or produced by any the county when disclosure could
reasonably be expected to produce private gain or public loss. The exemption
for “computer geographic systems” provided in this division (A)(14) does not
extend to requests made by news media as defined in §
36.02 above when the requested information is not otherwise exempt and the only
purpose of the request is to access and disseminate information regarding the
health, safety, welfare, or legal rights of the general public.
      (15)   The following information pertaining to educational matters:
         (a)   Test questions, scoring keys and other examination data used to
administer an academic examination;
         (b)   Information received by a primary or secondary school, college,
or university under its procedures for the evaluation of faculty members by
their academic peers;
         (c)   Information concerning a school or university's adjudication of
student disciplinary cases, but only to the extent that disclosure would
unavoidably reveal the identity of the student; and
         (d)   Course materials or research materials used by faculty members.
      (16)   Architects' plans, engineers' technical submissions, and other
construction related technical documents for projects not constructed or
developed in whole or in part with public funds and the same for projects
constructed or developed with public funds, including but not limited to power
generating and distribution stations and other transmission and distribution
facilities, water treatment facilities, airport facilities, sport stadiums,
convention centers, and all government owned, operated, or occupied buildings,
but only to the extent that disclosure would compromise security.
      (17)   Minutes of meetings of public bodies closed to the public as
provided in the Open Meetings Act until the county makes the minutes available
to the public under § 2.06 of the Open Meetings Act, being ILCS Ch. 5, Act 120.
      (18)   Communications between the county and an attorney or auditor
representing the county that would not be subject to discovery in litigation,
and materials prepared or compiled by or for the county in anticipation of a
criminal, civil or administrative proceeding upon the request of an attorney
advising the county, and materials prepared or compiled with respect to
internal audits of public bodies.
      (19)   Records relating to the county's adjudication of employee
grievances or disciplinary cases; however, this exemption shall not extend to
the final outcome of cases in which discipline is imposed.
      (20)   Administrative or technical information associated with automated
data processing operations, including but not limited to software, operating
protocols, computer program abstracts, file layouts, source listings, object
modules, load modules, user guides, documentation pertaining to all logical and
physical design of computerized systems, employee manuals, and any other
information that, if disclosed, would jeopardize the security of the system or
its data or the security of materials exempt under this section.
      (21)   Records relating to collective negotiating matters between public
bodies and their employees or representatives, except that any final contract
or agreement shall be subject to inspection and copying.
      (22)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
determine the qualifications of an applicant for a license or employment.
      (23)   The records, documents, and information relating to real estate
purchase negotiations until those negotiations have been completed or otherwise
terminated. With regard to a parcel involved in a pending or actually and
reasonably contemplated eminent domain proceeding under the Eminent Domain Act,
being ILCS Ch. 735, Act 30, records, documents and information relating to that
parcel shall be exempt except as may be allowed under discovery rules adopted
by the Illinois Supreme Court. The records, documents and information relating
to a real estate sale shall be exempt until a sale is consummated.
      (24)   Any and all proprietary information and records related to the
operation of an intergovernmental risk management association or self-insurance
pool or jointly self-administered health and accident cooperative or pool.
Insurance or self insurance (including any intergovernmental risk management
association or self insurance pool) claims, loss or risk management
information, records, data, advice or communications.
      (25)   Information contained in or related to examination, operating, or
condition reports prepared by, on behalf of, or for the use of the county
responsible for the regulation or supervision of financial institutions or
insurance companies, unless disclosure is otherwise required by State law.
      (26)   Information that would disclose or might lead to the disclosure of
secret or confidential information, codes, algorithms, programs, or private
keys intended to be used to create electronic or digital signatures under the
Electronic Commerce Security Act, being ILCS Ch. 5, Act 175.
      (27)   Vulnerability assessments, security measures, and response
policies or plans that are designed to identify, prevent, or respond to
potential attacks upon a community's population or systems, facilities, or
installations, the destruction or contamination of which would constitute a
clear and present danger to the health or safety of the community, but only to
the extent that disclosure could reasonably be expected to jeopardize the
effectiveness of the measures or the safety of the personnel who implement them
or the public. Information exempt under this item may include such things as
details pertaining to the mobilization or deployment of personnel or equipment,
to the operation of communication systems or protocols, or to tactical
operations.
      (28)   Maps and other records regarding the location or security of
generation, transmission, distribution, storage, gathering, treatment, or
switching facilities owned by a utility, by a power generator, or by the
Illinois Power Agency.
      (29)   Information contained in or related to proposals, bids, or
negotiations related to electric power procurement under § 1-75 of the Illinois
Power Agency Act, ILCS Ch. 20, Act 3855 and § 16-111.5 of the Public Utilities
Act, being ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, that is determined to be confidential and
proprietary by the Illinois Power Agency or by the Illinois Commerce
Commission.
      (30)   Information about students exempted from disclosure under §§ 10-
20.38 or 34-18.29 of the School Code, being ILCS Ch. 105, Act 5, and
information about undergraduate students enrolled at an institution of higher
education exempted from disclosure under § 25 of the Illinois Credit Card
Marketing Act of 2009, ILCS Ch. 110, Act 26.
      (31)   Information the disclosure of which is exempted under the Viatical
Settlements Act of 2009, ILCS Ch. 215, Act 159.
      (32)   Records and information provided to a mortality review team and
records maintained by a mortality review team appointed under the Department of
Juvenile Justice Mortality Review Team Act, being ILCS Ch. 730, Act 195.
      (33)   Information regarding interments, entombments, or inurnments of
human remains that are submitted to the Cemetery Oversight Database under the
Cemetery Care Act, being ILCS Ch. 760, Act 100, or the Cemetery Oversight Act,
being ILCS Ch. 225, Act 41, whichever is applicable.
      (34)   Correspondence and records (i) that may not be disclosed under §
11-9 of the Public Aid Code, being ILCS Ch. 305, Act 5, or (ii) that pertain to
appeals under § 11-8 of the Public Aid Code, being ILCS Ch. 305, Act 5.
      (35)   The names, addresses, or other personal information of persons who
are minors and are also participants and registrants in programs of park
districts, forest preserve districts, conservation districts, recreation
agencies, and special recreation associations.
      (36)   The names, addresses, or other personal information of
participants and registrants in programs of park districts, forest preserve
districts, conservation districts, recreation agencies, and special recreation
associations where the programs are targeted primarily to minors.
      (37)   Confidential information described in § 1-100 of the Illinois
Independent Tax Tribunal Act of 2012, being ILCS Ch. 35, Act 1010. (Text of
section from P.A. 97-1129)
   (B)   Any information exempt from disclosure under the Judicial Privacy Act,
being ILCS Ch. 5, Act 410, shall be redacted from public records prior to
disclosure under the Act. (Text of section from P.A. 97-847)
   (C)   A public record that is not in the possession of the county but is in
the possession of a party with whom the agency has contracted to perform a
governmental function on behalf of the county, and that directly relates to the
governmental function and is not otherwise exempt under this chapter, shall be
considered a public record of the county, for purposes of this chapter.
   (D)   This section does not authorize withholding of information or limit
the availability of records to the public, except as stated in this section or
otherwise provided in this chapter.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, § 7)
§ 36.16 STATUTORY EXEMPTIONS.
   To the extent provided for by the statutes referenced below, the following
shall be exempt from inspection and copying:
   (A)   All information determined to be confidential under § 4002 of the
Technology Advancement and Development Act.
   (B)   Library circulation and order records identifying library users with
specific materials under the Library Records Confidentiality Act.
   (C)   Applications, related documents, and medical records received by the
Experimental Organ Transplantation Procedures Board and any and all documents
or other records prepared by the Experimental Organ Transplantation Procedures
Board or its staff relating to applications it has received.
   (D)   Information and records held by the Department of Public Health and
its authorized representatives relating to known or suspected cases of sexually
transmissible disease or any information the disclosure of which is restricted
under the Illinois Sexually Transmissible Disease Control Act.
   (E)   Information the disclosure of which is exempted under § 30 of the
Radon Industry Licensing Act.
   (F)   Firm performance evaluations under § 55 of the Architectural,
Engineering, and Land Surveying Qualifications Based Selection Act.
   (G)   Information the disclosure of which is restricted and exempted under §
50 of the Illinois Prepaid Tuition Act.
   (H)   Information the disclosure of which is exempted under the State
Officials and Employees Ethics Act, and records of any lawfully created State
or local inspector general's office that would be exempt if created or obtained
by an Executive Inspector General's office under that Act.
   (I)   Information contained in a local emergency energy plan submitted to a
municipality in accordance with a local emergency energy plan ordinance that is
adopted under § 11-21.5-5 of the Illinois Municipal Code.
   (J)   Information and data concerning the distribution of surcharge moneys
collected and remitted by carriers under the Emergency Telephone System Act.
   (K)   Law enforcement officer identification information or driver
identification information compiled by a law enforcement agency or the
Department of Transportation under § 11-212 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   (L)   Records and information provided to a residential health care facility
resident sexual assault and death review team or the Executive Council under
the Abuse Prevention Review Team Act.
   (M)   Information provided to the predatory database created pursuant to
Article 3 of the Residential Real Property Disclosure Act, except to the extent
authorized under that Article.
   (N)   Defense budgets and petitions for certification of compensation and
expenses for court appointed trial counsel as provided under §§ 10 and 15 of
the Capital Crimes Litigation Act. This division (N) shall apply until the
conclusion of the trial of the case, even if the prosecution chooses not to
pursue the death penalty prior to trial or sentencing.
   (O)   Information that is prohibited from being disclosed under § 4 of the
Illinois Health and Hazardous Substances Registry Act.
   (P)   Security portions of system safety program plans, investigation
reports, surveys, schedules, lists, data, or information compiled, collected,
or prepared by or for the Department of Transportation under §§ 2705-300 and
2705-616 of the Department of Transportation Law of the Civil Administrative
Code of Illinois, the Regional Transportation Authority under § 2.11 of the
Regional Transportation Authority Act, or the St. Clair County Transit District
under the Bi-State Transit Safety Act.
   (Q)   Information prohibited from being disclosed by the Personnel Record
Review Act.
   (R)   Information prohibited from being disclosed by the Illinois School
Student Records Act.
   (S)   Information the disclosure of which is restricted under § 5-108 of the
Public Utilities Act.
   (T)   Reserved.
   (U)   Records and information provided to an independent team of experts
under the Developmental Disability and Mental Health Safety Act (also known as
Brian's Law).
   (V)   (1)   Names and information of people who have applied for or received
Firearm Owner's Identification Cards under the Firearm Owners Identification
Card Act or applied for or received a concealed carry license under the Firearm
Concealed Carry Act, unless otherwise authorized by the Firearm Concealed Carry
Act; and databases under the Firearm Concealed Carry Act, records of the
Concealed Carry Licensing Review Board under the Firearm Concealed Carry Act,
and law enforcement agency objections under the Firearm Concealed Carry Act.
      (2)   Records of the Firearm Owner's Identification Card Review Board
that are exempted from disclosure under § 10 of the Firearm Owners
Identification Card Act.
   (W)   Personally identifiable information which is exempted from disclosure
under subsection (g) of § 19.1 of the Toll Highway Act.
   (X)   Information which is exempted from disclosure under § 5-1014.3 of the
Counties Code or § 8-11-21 of the Illinois Municipal Code.
   (Y)   Confidential information under the Adult Protective Services Act and
its predecessor enabling statute, the Elder Abuse and Neglect Act, including
information about the identity and administrative finding against any caregiver
of a verified and substantiated decision of abuse, neglect, or financial
exploitation of an eligible adult maintained in the Registry established under
§ 7.5 of the Adult Protective Services Act.
   (Z)   Records and information provided to a fatality review team or the
Illinois Fatality Review Team Advisory Council under § 15 of the Adult
Protective Services Act.
   (AA)   Information which is exempted from disclosure under § 2.37 of the
Wildlife Code.
   (BB)   Information which is or was prohibited from disclosure by the
Juvenile Court Act of 1987.
   (CC)   Recordings made under the Law Enforcement Officer-Worn Body Camera
Act, except to the extent authorized under that Act.
   (DD)   Information that is prohibited from being disclosed under § 45 of the
Condominium and Common Interest Community Ombudsperson Act.
   (EE)   Information that is exempted from disclosure under § 30.1 of the
Pharmacy Practice Act.
   (FF)   Information that is exempted from disclosure under the Revised
Uniform Unclaimed Property Act.
   (GG)   Information that is prohibited from being disclosed under § 7-603.5
of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   (HH)   Records that are exempt from disclosure under § 1A-16.7 of the
Election Code.
   (II)   Information which is exempted from disclosure under § 2505-800 of the
Department of Revenue Law of the Civil Administrative Code of Illinois.
   (JJ)   Information and reports that are required to be submitted to the
Department of Labor by registering day and temporary labor service agencies but
are exempt from disclosure under subsection (a-1) of § 45 of the Day and
Temporary Labor Services Act.
   (KK)   Information prohibited from disclosure under the Seizure and
Forfeiture Reporting Act.
   (LL)   Information the disclosure of which is restricted and exempted under
§ 5-30.8 of the Illinois Public Aid Code.
   (MM)   Records that are exempt from disclosure under § 4.2 of the Crime
Victims Compensation Act.
   (NN)   Information that is exempt from disclosure under § 70 of the Higher
Education Student Assistance Act.
   (OO)   Communications, notes, records, and reports arising out of a peer
support counseling session prohibited from disclosure under the First
Responders Suicide Prevention Act.
   (PP)   Names and all identifying information relating to an employee of an
emergency services provider or law enforcement agency under the First
Responders Suicide Prevention Act.
   (QQ)   Information and records held by the Department of Public Health and
its authorized representatives collected under the Reproductive Health Act.
   (RR)   Information that is exempt from disclosure under the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act.
   (SS)   Data reported by an employer to the Department of Human Rights
pursuant to § 2-108 of the Illinois Human Rights Act.
   (TT)   Recordings made under the Children's Advocacy Center Act, except to
the extent authorized under that Act.
   (UU)   Information that is exempt from disclosure under § 50 of the Sexual
Assault Evidence Submission Act.
   (VV)   Information that is exempt from disclosure under subsections (f) and
(j) of § 5-36 of the Illinois Public Aid Code.
   (WW)   Information that is exempt from disclosure under § 16.8 of the State
Treasurer Act.
   (XX)   Information that is exempt from disclosure or information that shall
not be made public under the Illinois Insurance Code.
   (YY)   Information prohibited from being disclosed under the Illinois
Educational Labor Relations Act.
   (ZZ)   Information prohibited from being disclosed under the Illinois Public
Labor Relations Act.
   (AAA)   Information prohibited from being disclosed under § 1-167 of the
Illinois Pension Code.
   (BBB)   Information that is prohibited from disclosure by the Illinois
Police Training Act and the Illinois State Police Act.
   (CCC)   Records exempt from disclosure under § 2605-304 of the Illinois
State Police Law of the Civil Administrative Code of Illinois.
   (DDD)   Information prohibited from being disclosed under § 35 of the
Address Confidentiality for Victims of Domestic Violence, Sexual Assault, Human
Trafficking, or Stalking Act.
   (EEE)   Information prohibited from being disclosed under subsection (b) of
§ 75 of the Domestic Violence Fatality Review Act.
   (FFF)   Images from cameras under the Expressway Camera Act. This division
(FFF) is inoperative on and after July 1, 2025.
   (GGG)   Information prohibited from disclosure under paragraph (3) of
subsection (a) of § 14 of the Nurse Agency Licensing Act.
   (HHH)   Information submitted to the Illinois State Police in an affidavit
or application for an assault weapon endorsement, assault weapon attachment
endorsement, .50 caliber rifle endorsement, or .50 caliber cartridge
endorsement under the Firearm Owners Identification Card Act.
   (III)   Data exempt from disclosure under Section 50 of the School Safety
Drill Act.
   (JJJ)   Information exempt from disclosure under Section 30 of the Insurance
Data Security Law.
   (KKK)   Confidential business information prohibited from disclosure under
Section 45 of the Paint Stewardship Act.
   (LLL)   Data exempt from disclosure under Section 2-3.196 of the School
Code.
   (MMM)   Information prohibited from being disclosed under subsection (e) of
Section 1- 129 of the Illinois Power Agency Act.
   (NNN)   Materials received by the Department of Commerce and Economic
Opportunity that are confidential under the Music and Musicians Tax Credit and
Jobs Act.
   (OOO)   Data or information provided pursuant to Section 20 of the Statewide
Recycling Needs and Assessment Act.
   (PPP)   Information that is exempt from disclosure under Section 28-11 of
the Lawful Health Care Activity Act.
   (QQQ)   Information that is exempt from disclosure under Section 7-101 of
the Illinois Human Rights Act.
   (RRR)   Information prohibited from being disclosed under Section 4-2 of the
Uniform Money Transmission Modernization Act.
   (SSS)   Information exempt from disclosure under Section 40 of the Student-
Athlete Endorsement Rights Act. 1-1-25
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, § 7.5)
§ 36.17 WHEN REQUEST DENIED.
   (A)   The county when denying a request for public records shall notify the
requester in writing of the decision to deny the request, the reasons for the
denial, including a detailed factual basis for the application of any exemption
claimed, and the names and titles or positions of each person responsible for
the denial. Each notice of denial by the county shall also inform that person
of the right to review by the Public Access Counselor and provide the address
and phone number for the Public Access Counselor. Each notice of denial shall
inform that person of his or her right to judicial review under §
36.19.
   (B)   When a request for public records is denied on the grounds that the
records are exempt under §
36.15, the notice of denial shall specify the exemption claimed to authorize
the denial and the specific reasons for the denial, including a detailed
factual basis and a citation to supporting legal authority. Copies of all
notices of denial shall be retained by the county in a single central office
file that is open to the public and indexed according to the type of exemption
asserted and, to the extent feasible, according to the types of records
requested.
   (C)   Any person making a request for public records shall be deemed to have
exhausted his or her administrative remedies with respect to that request if
the county fails to act within the time periods provided in §
36.07.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, § 9)
§ 36.18 PUBLIC ACCESS COUNSELOR; OPINIONS.
   (A)   A person whose request to inspect or copy a public record is denied by
the county, except the General Assembly and committees, commissions, and
agencies thereof, may file a request for review with the Public Access
Counselor established in the Office of the Attorney General not later than 60
days after the date of the final denial. The request for review must be in
writing, signed by the requester, and include (i) a copy of the request for
access to records and (ii) any responses from the county.
   (B)   (1)   A person whose request to inspect or copy a public record is
made for a commercial purpose as defined in §
36.02 above may not file a request for review with the Public Access Counselor.
A person whose request to inspect or copy a public record was treated by the
county as a request for a commercial purpose under §
36.08 may file a request for review with the Public Access Counselor for the
limited purpose of reviewing whether the county properly determined that the
request was made for a commercial purpose.
      (2)   A person whose request to inspect or copy a public record was
treated by a public body, except the General Assembly and committees,
commissions, and agencies thereof, as a voluminous request under ILCS Ch. 5,
Act 140, § 3.6 may file a request for review with the Public Access Counselor
for the purpose of reviewing whether the public body properly determined that
the request was a voluminous request.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a request for review, the Public Access Counselor
shall determine whether further action is warranted. If the Public Access
Counselor determines that the alleged violation is unfounded, he or she shall
so advise the requester and the county and no further action shall be
undertaken. In all other cases, the Public Access Counselor shall forward a
copy of the request for review to the county within seven business days after
receipt and shall specify the records or other documents that the county shall
furnish to facilitate the review. Within seven business days after receipt of
the request for review, the county shall provide copies of records requested
and shall otherwise fully cooperate with the Public Access Counselor. If the
county fails to furnish specified records pursuant to this section, or if
otherwise necessary, the Attorney General may issue a subpoena to any person or
the county having knowledge of or records pertaining to a request for review of
a denial of access to records under the chapter. Records or documents obtained
by the Public Access Counselor from a public body for the purpose of addressing
a request for review under this section may not be disclosed to the public,
including the requester, by the Public Access Counselor. These records, while
in the possession of the Public Access Counselor, are exempt under this Act
from disclosure by the Public Access Counselor.
   (D)   Within seven business days after it receives a copy of a request for
review and request for production of records from the Public Access Counselor,
the county may, but is not required to, answer the allegations of the request
for review. The answer may take the form of a letter, brief, or memorandum. The
Public Access Counselor shall forward a copy of the answer to the person
submitting the request for review, with any alleged confidential information to
which the request pertains redacted from the copy. The requester may, but is
not required to, respond in writing to the answer within seven business days
and shall provide a copy of the response to the county.
   (E)   In addition to the request for review, and the answer and the response
thereto, if any, a requester or the county may furnish affidavits or records
concerning any matter germane to the review.
   (F)   (1)   Unless the Public Access Counselor extends the time by no more
than 30 business days by sending written notice to the requester and the county
that includes a statement of the reasons for the extension in the notice, or
decides to address the matter without the issuance of a binding opinion, the
Attorney General shall examine the issues and the records, shall make findings
of fact and conclusions of law, and shall issue to the requester and the county
an opinion in response to the request for review within 60 days after its
receipt. The opinion shall be binding upon both the requester and the county,
subject to administrative review under §
36.20.
      (2)   In responding to any request under this§
36.18, the Attorney General may exercise his or her discretion and choose to
resolve a request for review by mediation or by a means other than the issuance
of a binding opinion. The decision not to issue a binding opinion shall not be
reviewable.
      (3)   Upon receipt of a binding opinion concluding that a violation of
this chapter has occurred, the county shall either take necessary action
immediately to comply with the directive of the opinion or shall initiate
administrative review under §
36.20. If the opinion concludes that no violation of the Act has occurred, the
requester may initiate administrative review under §
36.20.
      (4)   The county that discloses records in accordance with an opinion of
the Attorney General is immune from all liabilities by reason thereof and shall
not be liable for penalties under this chapter.
   (G)   If the requester files suit under §
36.19 with respect to the same denial that is the subject of a pending request
for review, the requester shall notify the Public Access Counselor, and the
Public Access Counselor shall take no further action with respect to the
request for review and shall so notify the county.
   (H)   The Attorney General may also issue advisory opinions to public bodies
regarding compliance with this chapter. A review may be initiated upon receipt
of a written request from the head of the county or its attorney, which shall
contain sufficient accurate facts from which a determination can be made. The
Public Access Counselor may request additional information from the county in
order to assist in the review. The county that relies in good faith on an
advisory opinion of the Attorney General in responding to a request is not
liable for penalties under this Act, so long as the facts upon which the
opinion is based have been fully and fairly disclosed to the Public Access
Counselor.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, § 9.5)
§ 36.19 RELIEF FOR DENIAL.
   (A)   Any person denied access to inspect or copy any public record by the
county may file suit for injunctive or declaratory relief.
   (B)   Where the denial is from a county, suit may be filed in the circuit
court for the county where the county is located.
   (C)   The circuit court shall have the jurisdiction to enjoin the county
from withholding public records and to order the production of any public
records improperly withheld from the person seeking access. If the county can
show that exceptional circumstances exist, and that the county is exercising
due diligence in responding to the request, the court may retain jurisdiction
and allow the agency additional time to complete its review of the records.
   (D)   On motion of the plaintiff, prior to or after in camera inspection,
the court shall order the county to provide an index of the records to which
access has been denied. The index shall include the following:
      (1)   A description of the nature or contents of each document withheld,
or each deletion from a released document, provided, however, that the county
shall not be required to disclose the information which it asserts is exempt;
and
      (2)   A statement of the exemption or exemptions claimed for each such
deletion or withheld document.
   (E)   In any action considered by the court, the court shall consider the
matter de novo, and shall conduct such in camera examination of the requested
records as it finds appropriate to determine if the records or any part thereof
may be withheld under any provision of this chapter. The burden shall be on the
county to establish that its refusal to permit public inspection or copying is
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. If the county asserts that a
record is exempt from disclosure has the burden of proving that it is exempt by
clear and convincing evidence.
   (F)   In the event of noncompliance with an order of the court to disclose,
the court may enforce its order against any public official or employee so
ordered or primarily responsible for the noncompliance through the court's
contempt powers.
   (G)   Except as to causes the court considers to be of greater importance,
proceedings arising under this section shall take precedence on the docket over
all other causes and be assigned for hearing and trial at the earliest
practicable date and expedited in every way.
   (H)   If a person seeking the right to inspect or receive a copy of a public
record prevails in a proceeding under this section, the court shall award that
person reasonable attorneys' fees and costs, In determining what amount of
attorney's fees is reasonable, the court shall consider the degree to which the
relief obtained relates to the relief sought. The changes contained in this
division apply to an action filed on or after the effective date of the
amendatory Act of the 96th General Assembly codified herein.
   (I)   If the court determines that the county willfully and intentionally
failed to comply with this chapter, or otherwise acted in bad faith, the court
shall also impose upon the county a civil penalty of not less than $2,500 nor
more than $5,000 for each occurrence. In assessing the civil penalty, the court
shall consider in aggravation or mitigation the budget of the county and
whether the county has previously been assessed penalties for violations of
this Act. The changes contained in this subsection apply to an action filed on
or after the effective date of this amendatory Act of the 96th General
Assembly.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, § 11)
§ 36.20 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.
   A binding opinion issued by the Attorney General shall be considered a final
decision of an administrative agency, for purposes of administrative review
under the Administrative Review Law (ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, Art. III). An action
for administrative review of a binding opinion of the Attorney General shall be
commenced in Cook or Sangamon County. An advisory opinion issued to the county
shall not be considered a final decision of the Attorney General for purposes
of this section.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, § 11.5)
FEE SCHEDULES
§ 36.30 COUNTY CLERK FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The fees stated in this section shall be maintained within the Office
of the County Clerk and shall be available to the public with the cost study
justifying such fees.
   (B)   Clerk general fees:
      (1)   Certified copies, Birth Certificate: $18.
      (2)   Additional non-certified Birth Certificate: $11.
      (3)   Certified copies, Death Certificate: $20.
      (4)   Additional non-certified Death Certificate: $15.
      (5)   Marriage License/Civil Union: $55.
      (6)   Certified copies Marriage License/Civil Union: $11.
      (7)   Additional Certified Marriage/Civil Union: $11.
      (8)   Business, Assumed/Changed Name: $11.
      (9)   Notary by mail: $15.
      (10)   Notary certification in person: $14.
      (11)   Tax redemption: $61.
      (12)   Other certified copies: $8.
      (13)   Non certified copies: $1.
      (14)   Notary: $2.
      (15)   Search fee: $14.
   (C)   Recording fees:
      (1)   Summary recording first four pages: $68.
      (2)   Summary recording additional pages: $1.
      (3)   Fee if not 3-1/2 x 5 inch spaced: $12.
      (4)   Fee if paper not 8-1/2 x 11 inch: $12.
   (D)   (1)   Plat of Subdivision fees.
      (2)   Summary recording: $87.
   (E)   (1)   Financial/UCC fees:
      (2)   Summary recording: $59.
   (F)   The County Clerk shall not charge other County Offices or Officers the
above fees when conducting business on behalf of the County of DeWitt or
otherwise performing their duties as an employee for the County of DeWitt.
(Res. 2015-09, passed 9-24-2015)
§ 36.31 LAREDO SUBSCRIPTION PRICING.
   (A)   The following fee schedule shall apply to subscriptions through Laredo
for access to recordings in DeWitt County.
 
0 - 250 minutes:       $75 per month  ($0.25 per minute overage)
251 - 500 minutes:     $125 per month ($0.23 per minute overage)
501 - 1,000 minutes:   $195 per month ($0.18 per minute overage)
1,001 - 2,000 minutes: $295 per month ($0.15 per minute overage)
Unlimited:             $400 per month  
Print fee: $0.25 per page
 
   (B)   Fees collected pursuant to this section shall be deposited in the
County Clerk Document Storage Fund for the purpose of modernizing and
maintaining recordings.
(Res. 2015-12, passed 11-23-2015)
CHAPTER 37: COUNTY POLICIES
Section
   
37.01   Compliance with regulations concerning discrimination on basis of
disability
   
37.02   Designation of county facilities as no smoking facilities
   
37.03   Vehicle replacement policy
   
37.04   [Reserved]
   
37.05   Use of county facilities for storage
   
37.06   Press releases
   
37.07   Disposal of excess equipment/ property
§ 37.01 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS CONCERNING DISCRIMINATION ON BASIS OF
DISABILITY.
   (A)   A public notice shall be given stating that the county has a policy
against disabled discrimination and that the notice shall be in the following
form:
PUBLIC NOTICE REVENUE SHARING DISABLED REGULATIONS.
PUBLIC NOTICE REVENUE SHARING DISABLED REGULATIONS.
This notice is published pursuant to the requirement of § 51.55 of the Revenue Sharing Regulations, as published in the Federal Register on 10-17-
1983. Section 51.55 prohibits discrimination against qualified individuals because of their disabled status.
The County Board of DeWitt County, Clinton, Illinois, advises the public, employees and job applicants that it does not discriminate on the basis of
disabled status in admission or access to, or treatment or employment in, its program and activities.
The County Board of DeWitt County, Illinois, has designated the following as the contact to coordinate efforts to comply with this requirement.
Inquiries should be directed to:
NAME                                                                            
OFFICE                                                                          
ADDRESS                                                                       
PHONE NUMBER                                                           
HOURS                                                                            
 
   (B)   The notice shall be posted in public places throughout the county
together with notice being given in the form set forth in division (A) above by
radio stations in Clinton, Illinois, and Farmer City, Illinois, cable
television services in Clinton, Illinois, and Farmer City, Illinois; and
further, that the notice be published in the Farmer City Journal and the
Clinton Daily Journal once weekly for three consecutive weeks.
   (C)   The county and state shall prepare the self evaluation plans together
with a transition plan as required in the administrative requirements of the
revenue sharing disabled discrimination regulations.
   (D)   The county and state shall be in compliance with the regulations
prohibiting discrimination against the disabled.
(Prior Code, § 38.01) (Res. passed 10-11-1984)
§ 37.02 DESIGNATION OF COUNTY FACILITIES AS NO SMOKING FACILITIES.
   (A)   All county facilities shall be considered “No Smoking” facilities. No
person shall smoke or otherwise introduce into the human body nicotine,
tobacco, cannabis, or any other substance through any type of cigarette, cigar,
pipe, hookah, electronic cigarette, vaping device, or any other like item, in
any county facility or county-owned/leased vehicles.
   (B)   “County facility” shall be defined as any county-owned/leased
building, including a distance within 15 feet of any entrance to any building,
and any vehicles owned or leased by the County of DeWitt.
   (C)   “Smoke” or “smoking” means the carrying, smoking, burning, inhaling or
exhaling of any kind of a lighted pipe, cigar, cigarette, or hookah, as well as
any electronic cigarette, vaping device or other type of smoking equipment.
(Prior Code, § 38.02) (Res. passed 7-12-1990; Res. passed 3-17-1994; Res. 2020-
02, passed 1-23-2020)
§ 37.03 VEHICLE REPLACEMENT POLICY.
   To meet the requirement of providing safe and proper operating vehicles for
the County Sheriff’s Department and to provide the necessary public safety
services required by statute and expected by the citizens of the county, the
following replacement policy will be used as the major guide for the Sheriff’s
Department, the Public Safety Committee and the County Board.
   (A)   Each patrol deputy, sergeant, captain, detective, the Chief Deputy and
the Sheriff should be assigned a vehicle suitable for the assigned
responsibilities of each classification. Vehicles to be replaced will be
selected based on, but not limited to:
      (1)   No more than five new vehicles per year;
      (2)   The highest mileage for the type of unit being replaced;
      (3)   Major maintenance required at the present time;
      (4)   Major maintenance having been performed in the past 12 months;
      (5)   Major maintenance having been performed in the past 24 months; and
      (6)   Ability to extend usable life by assignment to another
classification of operator.
   (B)   Support units will be considered for replacement on as needed basis.
These units may be replaced as per division (A)(6) above or replaced with
purchase of quality used vehicles suitable for the classification of operation.
   (C)   The replacement of any and all types of units will have included, in
the projected replacement cost, those items necessary to allow the unit to be
fully operational in the classification it is to be operated.
   (D)   It shall be the responsibility of the County Sheriff to maintain
suitable records on each vehicle. Using these constantly changing records,
present to the Public Safety Committee his or her recommendation for
replacement and or reclassification on a yearly basis extending five years in
advance. This replacement projection may be updated as required by
circumstances. It must be updated in July of each year. When the July update is
presented to the Public Safety Committee, it shall contain projected
replacement costs for each of the first three years of the plan. The fourth and
fifth year need only show units projected to be replaced. This plan shall also
include the recommended unit to be placed into service.
   (E)   Further, the plan shall detail the classification each unit is
projected for during each year of the plan.
(Prior Code, § 38.03)
§ 37.04 [RESERVED].
§ 37.05 USE OF COUNTY FACILITIES FOR STORAGE.
   (A)   Any use of county facilities for the storage of property other than
county-owned property will be prohibited unless special written consent from
the Property Committee is obtained.
   (B)   Storage will only be considered for emergency situations with a
detailed inventory list including the item name, location, insurance waiver and
approximate length of time for storage is presented and kept on file with the
Administrative Assistant.
(Prior Code, § 38.05) (Motion carried 5-11-1995)
§ 37.06 PRESS RELEASES.
   It shall be the policy of the County Board that all press releases
concerning county agencies or county business shall be issued by the agency
head, or the Chairperson of the County Board, or by the Board’s Administrative
Assistant, at the direction of the Board Chairperson.
(Prior Code, § 38.06) (Motion passed 7-12-1995)
§ 37.07 DISPOSAL OF EXCESS EQUIPMENT/ PROPERTY.
   The Maintenance Supervisor and/or Administrative Assistant shall be
contacted regarding any disposal of county-owned equipment/property. Final
disposal of county-owned equipment/property shall be approved by the Property
Committee.
(Prior Code, § 38.07) (Motion passed 7-12-2001)
CHAPTER 38: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
38.001   Policy statement; purpose
   
38.002   Definitions
   
38.003   Nepotism
Selection and Hiring
   
38.015   Responsibility for selection and hiring of employees; county as an
equal opportunity employer
   
38.016   Authorization of positions
   
38.017   Filling of vacated positions
   
38.018   Retention of county-funded positions
   
38.019   Retention of positions funded other than by county
   
38.020   Physical examination for new hire employees; examination form
   
38.021   Policy statement concerning health protection
Conditions of Employment
   
38.035   Hours of work
   
38.036   Pay periods
   
38.037   Holidays
   
38.038   Probationary employment period
   
38.039   Temporary and permanent disability
   
38.040   Paid leave time
   
38.041   Line and staff relations
   
38.042   Reporting leaves required of department heads; Executive
Administrative Assistant
   
38.043   Eye protection
   
38.044   County-owned vehicles
   
38.045   Identification cards
   
38.046   Social media policy
Vacations
   
38.060   Vacation allowance per department
   
38.061   Computation of vacation
   
38.062   Payment of accrued vacation upon termination of employment
   
38.063   Unused vacation
   
38.064   Non-accrual of vacation
Leaves of Absence
   
38.075   Sick leave
   
38.076   Maternity leave
   
38.077   Military leave
   
38.078   Miscellaneous leave
   
38.079   Family and medical leave
   
38.080   Domestic and sexual violence leave
Employee Personnel Records
   
38.095   Maintenance of individual personnel records
   
38.096   Confidentiality of files
   
38.097   Type of records
Position Classification System
   
38.110   Purpose
   
38.111   Maintenance of classification system; salary scale
   
38.112   Position reclassification
   
38.113   New positions
Wage and Salary Administration
   
38.125   Compensation policy
   
38.126   Entrance level salaries
   
38.127   Performance salary increases
   
38.128   Salary adjustments
   
38.129   Temporary employment
   
38.130   Acting status
   
38.131   Compensatory time
   
38.132   Overtime pay
   
38.133   Transfers and promotions
Code of Ethics; Standards of Conduct
   
38.145   Conflict of interest
   
38.146   Misuse of funds or materials
   
38.147   Misrepresentation
   
38.148   Bribery
   
38.149   Standards of conduct
Disciplinary Actions
   
38.160   Conduct subject to disciplinary action
   
38.161   Types of disciplinary actions
Terminations
   
38.175   Termination of employment
Benefits
   
38.190   Group insurance
   
38.191   Retirement
   
38.192   Arbitration
Grievance Procedures
   
38.205   Grievance policy
   
38.206   Bargaining unit employees
   
38.207   Non-bargaining unit employees
Accidents
   
38.220   Reporting of accidents
Building Closing Policy
   
38.235   Persons authorized to recommend closing of county buildings
   
38.236   Conditions for closing of county buildings
   
38.237   Notification of closing
   
38.238   Payment of employees during closure
   
38.239   Re-opening of county buildings
Evaluations
   
38.250   Purpose of evaluations
   
38.251   Guidelines for evaluations
   
38.252   Support staffing for evaluations
Employee Travel Policy
   
38.265   General travel policy
   
38.266   Authorization for travel
   
38.267   Transportation
   
38.268   Routing of travel
   
38.269   Expenses related to transportation
   
38.270   Lodging
   
38.271   Meal allowance
   
38.272   Reimbursable expenses
   
38.273   Non-reimbursable expenses
Activation of Emergency Sirens
   
38.285   Duty of Sheriff’s Department to activate system
   
38.286   When system will be activated
   
38.287   EMA office to be manned and operational when system activated
   
38.288   Notification to local radio stations
   
38.289   False alarms
Use of Communications Systems
   
38.300   Statement of policy
   
38.301   Passwords
   
38.302   Privacy and monitoring
   
38.303   Discipline
   
38.304   Department head or elected official responsibility
   
38.305   Virus/problem reporting
Educational Expenses
   
38.320   Payment by county for classes and seminars
   
38.321   Reimbursable expenses for non-certified employees
Anti-Harassment Policy
   
38.335   Statement of policy
   
38.336   Procedures
Discrimination, Harassment and Sexual Assault Policy
   
38.345   Statement of policy
   
38.346   Responsibilities
   
38.347   Applicable procedures
   
38.348   Non-retaliation
   
38.349   Discipline, fines and penalties
   
38.350   False reports prohibited
   
38.351   Additional resources
Identity Protection Policy
   
38.365   Prohibited conduct
   
38.366   Exceptions
   
38.367   Freedom of Information Act and other requests for information
   
38.368   Training
   
38.369   Conflict
Nursing Mother Policy
   
38.380   Nursing mother policy
Multi-Factor Authentication Policy and Procedures
   
38.385   Purpose
   
38.386   Policy
   
38.387   Procedure/processes
   
38.388   Use
   
Appendix A: Forms
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 38.001 POLICY STATEMENT; PURPOSE.
   (A)   The County Board and the Labor/Policy Committee have researched all
previous County Board policies pertaining to personnel. The County Board has
collected individual personnel policy statements from elected officials and
department heads to develop a county personnel policy manual for all county
employees. It is the County Board’s responsibility to establish a personnel
policy for all county employees, while being accountable to the taxpayers of
the county for the most effective and efficient operation of county government.
The provisions of these policies should be considered to be advisory only as to
elected department heads.
   (B)   The policies set forth in this chapter are designed to:
      (1)   Foster good working relationships and provide uniform personnel
policies, opportunities for advancement and consideration of employees’ needs
and desires;
      (2)   Conduct all operations in an ethical and proper manner;
      (3)   Ensure dependable service to and by employees of the county and to
the public with which it deals; and
      (4)   All proposed policy changes will be sent to the department head/
elected official for review prior to full Board adoption at the following
month’s regular meeting.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The County Board of DeWitt County, Illinois.
   DEPARTMENT HEAD. An employee of the county who is under contract to the
County Board.
   ELECTED DEPARTMENT HEAD. An official who has been elected by the people of
the county.
   FULL-TIME EMPLOYEE. A person working the regularly scheduled number of hours
is considered a FULL-TIME EMPLOYEE and is eligible for all county benefits.
Temporary and per diem employees are not considered FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES.
   PART-TIME EMPLOYEE. A person working less than the department regularly
scheduled number of hours for the assigned department is considered a PART-TIME
EMPLOYEE and is not eligible for county benefits unless otherwise stated.
Department heads may be PART-TIME EMPLOYEES; however, temporary employees are
not considered PART-TIME EMPLOYEES.
   TEMPORARY EMPLOYEE. A person employed for a period of less than three months
or for a specific task is considered a TEMPORARY EMPLOYEE and is not eligible
for county benefits, unless otherwise stated. TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES may work the
regularly scheduled number of hours for a department (full-time) or less than
the regularly scheduled number of hours for a department (part-time). Student
interns may be considered TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES and employed up to one year.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.003 NEPOTISM.
   Members of the same immediate family whose qualifications rank each of them
first for the positions under consideration may be employed, either on a full-
time basis, part-time basis or temporary basis, so long as neither family
member is immediately responsible for the decision to hire, the supervision,
direction, evaluation or salary recommendation of the other.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
SELECTION AND HIRING
§ 38.015 RESPONSIBILITY FOR SELECTION AND HIRING OF EMPLOYEES; COUNTY AS AN
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER.
   (A)   The county is an equal opportunity employer and does not discriminate
against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, color,
religion, sex, national origin, ancestry or qualified individuals because of
their disabled status.
   (B)   All recruitment, selection and hiring activities are the
responsibility of the elected official or department head.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.016 AUTHORIZATION OF POSITIONS.
   All positions must be authorized by the Finance Committee and the job
description, classification and salary be approved. All positions will be
advertised.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.017 FILLING OF VACATED POSITIONS.
   (A)   Filling of positions vacated, for whatever the reason, having the
salary paid by county funds shall not be filled until the Finance Committee has
reestablished and approved the replacement and set a starting day, if
applicable.
   (B)   Filling of positions vacated, for whatever the reason, having the
salary reimbursed in part or in total by other than county funds shall not be
filled until the Finance Committee has approved the replacement and set a
starting date if applicable. The exception to this would be if the statute or
policy of funding agency dictates otherwise.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.018 RETENTION OF COUNTY-FUNDED POSITIONS.
   Positions funded by county funds will be retained on an open ended basis
with the persons in those positions being retained, except as listed.
   (A)   Persons may request a transfer in writing to a vacated or newly
created position in their departments or in any other department.
   (B)   Persons may be removed from a position for unsatisfactory performance.
This may result in forced transfer or termination.
   (C)   Positions may be eliminated or changed. The person in the position may
be transferred or terminated. Should termination result, the person will be
given a minimum of two weeks’ notice and benefits per personnel policy in
effect at that time for the department.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.019 RETENTION OF POSITIONS FUNDED OTHER THAN BY COUNTY.
   Positions having salary reimbursed in part or in total by funds other than
county funds will be retained and the person in those positions being retained,
except as listed.
   (A)   Persons may request a transfer in writing to a reestablished or newly
created position in his or her department or in any other department.
   (B)   Persons may be removed from a position for unsatisfactory performance.
This may result in forced transfer or termination.
   (C)   Positions may be eliminated or changed. The person in this position
may be transferred or terminated. Should termination result, the person will be
given the notice and benefits as are available from the agency providing the
salary moneys and/or county personnel policy for that department.
   (D)   The County Board may retain an employee and position if the county
chooses to fund the position itself. If the county chooses not to fund the
position, persons in these positions may be transferred or terminated. Should
termination result, the person will be given the notice and benefits as are
available from the agency providing the salary moneys and/or county personnel
policy for that department.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.020 PHYSICAL EXAMINATION FOR NEW HIRE EMPLOYEES; EXAMINATION FORM.
   (A)   (1)   When employment is offered to an applicant, a pre-employment
physical including drug testing shall be completed. The expense associated with
this physical and drug testing shall be paid by the county with the physician
being designated by the county.
      (2)   Failure of persons to satisfactorily complete the prescribed
physical and lab tests as certified by the physician on the examination form
will result in the applicant not being hired. Should the applicant wish to
challenge the results, he or she may do so by asking for a second opinion from
a specialist by or agreed to by the physician.
      (3)   All costs incurred to obtain and provide the second opinion will be
borne by the applicant.
      (4)   Consultation between person providing the opinion and the final
recommendation will be provided to the county and the county’s decision will be
made at that time.
   (B)   (1)   Applicants hired will have the examination form filed in the
employee’s personnel file which will be retained by the office holder or
department head.
      (2)   Applicants who are not hired will have the examination form placed
on file with the application form which will be retained by the county’s
Executive Administrative Assistant.
      (3)   Applicants may apply for other county positions using the filed
examination for a one-year period. The county has the right of choice to use
the on file examination or require an additional examination at the expense of
the county.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.021 POLICY STATEMENT CONCERNING HEALTH PROTECTION.
   (A)   The ever increasing threat of persons contracting communicable
diseases presents a condition for our employees at the Sheriff’s Department and
Maintenance Department that makes it a must to have all employees tested for
those diseases.
   (B)   (1)   These tests will be provided by the county at no charge to the
employees. The tests will be conducted and processed through the DeWitt-Piatt
Bi-County Health Department.
      (2)   Future new hires will be tested prior to starting work.
   (C)   It is the policy of the county to comply with regulations of the
Federal Occupational Safety and Health Act, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 651 et. seq.,
relating to occupational exposure to blood or other potential infectious
materials. The county will encourage employees to take appropriate
precautionary measures where employees may be exposed to infectious materials.
The county exposure control plan is developed in accordance with the OSHA
Blood-Borne Pathogens Standard, Federal Register Regulations, 29 C.F.R. §
1910.1030 and shall be implemented by all county departments.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
Cross-reference:
   Medical examination forms, see
Appendix A
CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
§ 38.035 HOURS OF WORK.
   (A)   County office hours regularly visited by the general public shall be
as follows.
      (1)   County building: 8:30 a.m. to 4;30 p.m., Monday through Friday. The
county reserves the right to change hours if necessary. Exact starting times,
additional time spent for lunch and ending times each day shall be specified by
each department head.
      (2)   The Sheriff’s office: 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through
Friday.
      (3)   The Highway Department works 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., with a 30-
minute lunch hour.
   (B)   Each employee shall have a meal break during working hours.
   (C)   Work breaks will be scheduled by department heads.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.036 PAY PERIODS.
   (A)   (1)   Employees are paid every two weeks on Friday.
      (2)   Pay checks may be obtained from the department head or designee
after 12:00 noon on pay day.
      (3)   Checks may be picked up only by the employee unless a signed note
is sent authorizing another to obtain the check.
   (B)   Time sheets shall be turned in on the Monday preceding the pay day to
the Executive Administrative Assistant to the County Board. Failure to turn in
time sheets will result in no pay check being issued.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.037 HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   (1)   State statutes require that the County Board annually adopt a
resolution specifying the holidays to be observed during the following calendar
year. Usually observed are the following: New Year’s Day, King’s birthday,
Lincoln’s birthday, Washington’s birthday, spring holiday, Memorial Day, Fourth
of July, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veteran’s Day, Thanksgiving Day, Friday after
Thanksgiving, Christmas Day and the day after Christmas.
      (2)   Holidays falling on Saturday are observed on the preceding Friday.
Holidays occurring on Sunday are observed on the following Monday.
   (B)   A holiday schedule applicable to all employees shall be posted at the
beginning of each county fiscal year by the County Board.
   (C)   An employee must work his or her regularly scheduled work day before
and immediately following the holiday or present a doctor’s verification to
utilize a sick day in order to receive holiday pay.
   (D)   Compensation for working a holiday will be at time and a half, plus
the regular pay for the holiday. If an employee is scheduled to work a holiday
and declines to work, holiday pay will be forfeited.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.038 PROBATIONARY EMPLOYMENT PERIOD.
   (A)   A new employee shall be considered a probationary employee during the
first six months of service. Sick time and personal time shall accrue after 90
days of service. Continued regular employment beyond this period shall be
dependent upon certification of ability to do the job and successful
performance of the job.
   (B)   Part-time employees who have worked a period of six months prior to
full-time employment shall receive all benefits once going to a full-time
status.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011; Ord. passed 7-10-2014)
§ 38.039 TEMPORARY AND PERMANENT DISABILITY.
   Employees should contact the IMRF representative for details.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.040 PAID LEAVE TIME.
   (A)   All full-time employees, after 90 days of service, may take up to 40
hours of paid leave time for any reason during the county's fiscal year
(December 1 through November 30) after receiving approval from their
supervisor. Time must be taken in no less than one hour increments. This
benefit is not cumulative. Employees will be paid for unused time upon
resignation provided a two-week notice is given and not terminated.
   (B)   All part-time employees, after 90 days of service, will earn one hour
of paid leave time for every 40 hours of time worked. Paid leave time may be
used for any reason during the county's fiscal year (December 1 through
November 30). This benefit can carry over year to year with a maximum leave of
40 hours in the county's fiscal year. Time must be taken in no less than one
hour increments. Any unused earned time will be paid upon resignation.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011; Res. 23-14, passed 11-28-2023; Res. 24-7, passed 8-22-
2024)
§ 38.041 LINE AND STAFF RELATIONS.
   (A)   Decisions affecting a given area should be made by the administrator
in charge of the area.
   (B)   All personnel should refer matters requiring administrative action to
the administrator in charge of the area.
   (C)   All personnel may have the right to appeal an administrative decision
to a higher authority.
   (D)   Whenever possible, each employee should be made responsible to only
one immediate supervisor. If this is not possible, the employee is to
understand who he or she is responsible to for what functions.
   (E)   Staff personnel should always work through their administrator in
carrying out their assigned functions.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.042 REPORTING LEAVES REQUIRED OF DEPARTMENT HEADS; EXECUTIVE
ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT.
   Department heads shall submit reports to the Executive Administrative
Assistant of the County Board for vacation requests, sick leave and personal
days. The Executive Administrative Assistant shall report requests for vacation
requests, sick leave and personal days to the County Board Chairperson.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.043 EYE PROTECTION.
   (A)   (1)   All maintenance and highway personnel will be required to wear
safety glasses with side shields at all times during the working day. Custodian
personnel will be required to wear safety glasses with side shields when
working directly with cleaning chemicals. Each employee shall report to work
with their safety glasses.
      (2)   Employees reporting to work without their safety glasses will not
be allowed to work and will be docked in pay until they have reported to work
with the safety glasses.
      (3)   If breakage occurs while at work, face shields/goggles will be
provided and must be worn until replacement lenses may be obtained.
   (B)   The county will provide reimbursement for the purchase of safety
glasses with side shields not to exceed $55 every 24 months.
   (C)   Violation of any part of this policy will result in disciplinary
action, as outlined in §§
38.160 and
38.161.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.044 COUNTY-OWNED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Employees may not drive vehicles for county business without the prior
approval of their supervisor. Before approving a driver, the supervisor must
check the employee’s driving record, verify the existence of a valid driver’s
license and personal auto liability insurance coverage and make certain that
the employee is eligible for coverage under any applicable county insurance.
   (B)   Employees whose jobs require regular driving for business as a
condition of employment must be able to meet the driver approval standards of
this policy at all times. In addition, employees holding those jobs must inform
their supervisors of any changes that may affect their ability to meet the
standards of this policy. For example, employees who lose their license must
report this to their supervisors. For all other jobs, driving is considered an
incidental function of the position.
   (C)   Employees who need transportation in the course of their normal work
may be assigned a county vehicle for their use. All other employees needing
transportation for county business may use vehicles assigned to their
department or those from another department if available. As a last
alternative, when no county vehicles are available, employees may use their own
vehicles for business purposes, but only with the prior approval of their
supervisor.
   (D)   Employees who drive a vehicle on county business must, in addition to
meeting the approval requirements above, exercise due diligence to drive safely
and follow all traffic laws, to avoid distractions while driving (such as using
cellular telephones) and to maintain the security of the vehicle and its
contents. Drivers also must make sure that the vehicle meets any county or
legal standards for insurance, maintenance and safety. Employees are
responsible for any driving infractions or fines that result from their driving
and must report them to their supervisors.
   (E)   Employees are not permitted, under any circumstances, to operate a
county vehicle or a personal vehicle for county business when any physical or
mental impairment causes the employee to be unable to drive safely. This
prohibition includes circumstances in which the employee is temporarily unable
to operate a vehicle safely or legally because of illness, medication or
intoxication.
   (F)   A mileage usage log shall be kept by all departments who use a county
vehicle with copies of the log being submitted to the controlling committee
monthly.
   (G)   Employees driving on county business may claim reimbursement for
parking fees and tolls actually incurred. In addition, employees driving county
vehicles may claim reimbursement for gasoline and other expenses directly
incurred for business purposes.
   (H)   Employees who use their personal vehicles for approved business
purposes will receive a mileage allowance.
   (I)   Employees must report any accident, theft, damage, breakdown or
mechanical problem involving a county vehicle or a personal vehicle used on
county business to their supervisor and the County Board’s Executive
Administrative Assistant regardless of the extent of damage or lack of
injuries. These reports must be made as soon as possible but no later than 48
hours after the incident. Employees are expected to cooperate fully with
authorities in the event of an accident. However, they should not make any
statements other than in reply to questions of investigating officers.
   (J)   Time spent by nonexempt employees (those covered by the minimum wage
and overtime provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 201
et seq.) in driving a county or personal vehicle on county business during
normal hours is considered hours worked for pay purposes. Commuting time before
the start and after the end of the work day is not treated as work time for pay
purposes.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.045 IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (A)   All county employees will be issued a photographic identification card
(“card”) upon being hired. The badges will be programmed to enter and exit
restricted portions of the building as directed by the employee’s supervisor or
office holder. Each employee will be notified of the restricted access door(s)
that they may use along with the times their cards will be active. This
information is not to be disclosed to anyone by the employee.
   (B)   If the employee’s card is stolen or lost, it must be reported
immediately to the Executive Administrative Assistant, to the County Board and,
if he or she is unavailable, then to the Chief Deputy of the County Sheriff’s
Department. Failure to notify the appropriate personnel immediately when a card
is stolen or lost may result in discipline, including termination of
employment. If an employee’s card is lost or stolen, it will be replaced once
without cost to the employee. Subsequent replacement cards will be provided to
the employee for a fee.
   (C)   Employees issued a card must, when entering or exiting a door
controlled by a restricted access card reader, scan their cards to activate the
card reader. No employee may enter a restricted area without scanning his or
her card. Additionally, no employee may allow access to restricted areas to any
person or persons not possessing a card. Failure to activate a card reader as
required or permitting unauthorized access to restricted areas may result in
discipline, including termination of employment.
   (D)   An acknowledge form must be signed and returned to the
ExecutiveAdministrative Assistant to the County Board for the employee’s card
to remain activated.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.046 SOCIAL MEDIA POLICY.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      SOCIAL MEDIA.  Any internet based service, including but not limited to
Facebook, Twitter, Snapchat, Instagram, MySpace, individually operated website
or blog, and any other internet based service used for the dissemination of
information be it by written text, pictures, or the posting of documents.
   (B)   Professional use of social media.
      (1)   County departments and offices may maintain a social media presence
as they see fit, and may designate an employee to maintain such presence.
      (2)   Prior to representing the county or respective county department or
office on any social media an employee must receive permission from the
respective department head or elected official.
      (3)   No employee shall represent or hold themselves out as the
representative of the county or an office or department of the county without
the express consent of the department head or elected official.
      (4)   In instances where there is not a clearly designated department
head or elected official, the Committee Chairman of the County Board for the
respective committee that oversees the operations of the department or office
shall be vested with discretion pertaining to the use of social media.
      (5)   In regards to the County Board of DeWitt County discretion shall be
vested with the County Board Chairman.
      (6)   No personal or private information of any employee or citizen shall
be disclosed on social media for any reason, regardless of such information
being prohibited or not by any law of the State of Illinois or the United
States, unless otherwise authorized by the Freedom of Information Act and such
information is posted as an alternative to individual citizens having to
request such information through formal requests.
      (7)   Postings made on behalf of a department or office shall only
pertain to the operations of that individual's department or office, and shall
not opine or comment on the operation of any other department or office.
      (8)   No postings shall be made that are obscene, contain nudity,
threaten or harass any individual be they another employee or elected official
or a citizen not employed by the county.
      (9)   No individual shall disclose confidential information without the
express approval of all individuals made privy to the confidential information.
In the case of the County Board a unanimous vote of all members would be
required to waive confidentiality.
   (C)   Private use of social media.
      (1)   Employees may use social media as they see fit outside of working
hours subject to the guidelines below.
      (2)   Elected officials and department heads may restrict the use of
social media during working hours.
      (3)   Public profiles may be accessed by any individual, including an
employer.
      (4)   Information and postings on private profiles may be accessed at any
time by anyone that has been previously granted access.
      (5)   Employees are encouraged not to air disputes concerning other
employees, as social media may be used as evidence against employees at future
proceedings regardless of where and when the posting was done.
      (6)   Employees do not have the expectation of privacy while accessing
social media on county equipment and devices.
      (7)   Postings made outside of working hours may still violate county
policies pertaining to harassment and discrimination, and may still subject an
employee to discipline or termination.
      (8)   Information the employee, department head, or elected official has
should not be disseminated through a private social media account. All Freedom
of Information Act responses should be handled through the designated Freedom
of Information Act Officer.
      (9)   Employees are not prohibited from organizing or discussing amongst
themselves issues pertaining to their employment using social media, but any
such communications may be used against an employee should they be found to
violate the handling of confidential information, or be used to harass or
discriminate.
(Res. 2017-08, passed 7-20-2017)
VACATIONS
§ 38.060 VACATION ALLOWANCE PER DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Vacation time shall be with the approval of the department head and
with consideration to department work schedules. Vacation time will be used in
no less than one-hour increments.
   (B)   Vacation time shall not be paid until the days are earned and shall
not be advanced.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.061 COMPUTATION OF VACATION.
   (A)   The word YEAR, when used in these criteria, shall mean a year of
employment beginning and ending on the anniversary of employment. Vacation is
earned on the anniversary date of hire.
   (B)   Each employee shall be entitled to the number of paid working days of
vacation as follows:
      (1)   Beginning year two; three days;
      (2)   Beginning the third year through the seventh year: eight days;
      (3)   Beginning the eighth year through the seventeenth year: 13 days;
      (4)   Beginning the eighteenth year through the twenty-fourth year: 18
days; and
      (5)   Beginning the twenty-fifth year and thereafter: 23 days.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011; Res. 2017-15, passed 11-16-2017; Res. 23-14, passed
11-28-2023)
§ 38.062 PAYMENT OF ACCRUED VACATION UPON TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT.
   The vacation days entitled during the year in which employment is terminated
shall be prorated provided a two week notice is given. If no notice is given,
then the former employee shall be paid for unused time pursuant to Illinois
law. For all employees hired after February 28, 2017, vacation time will be
paid out pursuant to Illinois law. The county reserves the right to provide no
compensation if no notice is given so long as such action is permitted by
Illinois law.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011; Res. 2017-02, passed 2-23-2017)
§ 38.063 UNUSED VACATION.
   Up to five earned, but unused, paid vacation days may be accumulated from
one year and used the following year at the discretion of the department head.
For purposes of this section “one year” and “following year” is a full calendar
year from the employee’s hire anniversary date.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011; Res. 2017-15, passed 11-16-2017)
§ 38.064 NON-ACCRUAL OF VACATION.
   Vacation time shall not accrue during leaves of absence or maternity leaves.
See LOA, FMLA policies.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
§ 38.075 SICK LEAVE.
   (A)   Employees are credited with one sick day per month after their
probationary period. Sick leave may be used in one-hour increments. Sick leave
may be used for absences due to an illness, injury, or medical appointment of
the employee. Sick leave may also be used on the same terms for the employee’s
child, spouse, sibling, parent, mother-in-law, father- in-law, grandchild,
grandparent, stepparent or domestic partner for reasonable periods of time as
the employee’s attendance may be necessary.
   (B)   Credited, but unused, sick days may be accumulated at a rate not to
exceed 12 working days per year and an accumulated total of 90 days. For IMRF
purposes employees may accumulate a total of 240 days for retirement.
   (C)   Employees who will be absent from work must notify the department head
on the morning of the absence within one-half hour of the scheduled time for
reporting to work. Notification must be given for each day of the absence
unless the department head has prior understanding of the duration of the
employee’s expected sick leave.
   (D)   A doctor’s verification is required for absences of three consecutive
days. This shall be sent to the department head and attached to the time sheet
for inclusion in the employee’s file.
   (E)   In case of discharge or dismissal, accumulated sick leave will be
forfeited by the employee.
   (F)   In case of resignation, an employee shall be paid one-half day salary
for each accumulated sick day. For all employees hired after February 28, 2017,
there will be no payment of accumulated sick time upon resignation/termination
of employment.
   (G)   Sick leave shall not be paid until the days are credited and shall not
be advanced.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011; Res. 2017-02, passed 2-23-2017; Res. 2017-04, passed
3-23-2017)
§ 38.076 MATERNITY LEAVE.
   Refer to §
38.079, concerning family and medical leave.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.077 MILITARY LEAVE.
   (A)   Military leave shall be considered unpaid leave, unless otherwise
required by federal and state law.
   (B)   Compensation and benefits, when due, will be paid pursuant to federal
and state law.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.078 MISCELLANEOUS LEAVE.
   (A)   Court/civil leave. Time away from work, with pay is allowed to
permanent employees for jury duty as well as complying with subpoenas by any
judicial or administrative body. Temporary employees are allowed time without
pay, for attendance in court. Any monetary compensation for jury duty will be
returned to the employer.
   (B)   Professional training leave. With prior approval, the Board will grant
a leave of absence with pay to employees who wish to attend conferences,
training institutes, seminars, workshops or training courses which are directly
related to their job or the acquisition of specific skills and understandings
necessary for improved job performance.
   (C)   Family bereavement leave.
      (1)   Full-time employees may take three days of paid bereavement leave
for the death of employee's parents, spouse, children, brother, sister,
grandparents, parents-in-laws, brother or sister-in-law, grandchildren;
including stepparents, children, brother, sister, grandchildren and in-laws; or
wards of guardianship. Employees may take one day of paid bereavement leave for
the death of an aunt, uncle, niece or nephew and time of the funeral for a
friend.
      (2)   Eligible employees (as that term is defined in Section 101(2) of
the federal Family and Medical Leave Act, 29 U.S.C. 2601, et seq.) are also
entitled to take a maximum of two weeks (ten working days) of unpaid
bereavement leave for the reasons described below.
      (3)   (a)   Employees may take leave for the following reasons relating
to the death of a covered family member:
            1.   To attend the funeral or alternative to a funeral of a covered
family member;
            2.   To make arrangements necessitated by the death of a covered
family member; or
            3.   To grieve the death of a covered family member.
         (b)   In the event of the death of more than one covered family member
in a 12-month period, an employee is entitled to up to a total of six weeks of
bereavement leave during the 12-month period.
         (c)   When an employee takes leave for reasons listed under division
(C)(3)(a) above, DeWitt County may require reasonable documentation, including
a death certificate, a published obituary, or written verification of death,
burial, or memorial services from a mortuary, funeral home, burial society,
crematorium, religious institution or government agency.
      (4)   (a)   Employees may take leave for the following reasons relating
to pregnancy, fertility, adoption, and surrogacy:
            1.   Due to a miscarriage;
            2.   Due to an unsuccessful round of intrauterine insemination or
of an assisted reproductive technology procedure;
            3.   Due to a failed adoption match or an adoption that is not
finalized because it is contested by another party;
            4.   Due to a failed surrogacy agreement;
            5.   Due to a diagnosis that negatively impacts pregnancy or
fertility; or
            6.   Due to a stillbirth.
         (b)   When an employee takes leave for reasons listed under division
(C)(4)(a) above, DeWitt County may require reasonable documentation including a
Department of Labor form filled out by a health care practitioner who has
treated the employee or the employee's spouse or domestic partner, or
surrogate, for an event listed under division (C)(4)(a) above, or documentation
from the adoption or surrogacy organization that the employee worked with
related to an event listed under division (C)(4)(a) certifying that the
employee or his or her spouse or domestic partner has experienced an event
listed under division (C)(4)(a). DeWitt County does not require that the
employee identify which category of event under division (C)(4)(a) the leave
pertains to as a condition of exercising the rights under this section.
      (5)   Bereavement leave under this section must be completed within 60
days after the date on which the employee receives notice of the death of the
covered family member or the date on which an event listed under division (C)
(4)(a) occurs. An employee is required to provide DeWitt County with at least
48 hours' advance notice of the employee's intention to take bereavement leave
unless providing such notice is not reasonable and practicable.
      (6)   For purposes of this section, covered family members include an
employee's child, stepchild, spouse, domestic partner, sibling, parent, mother-
in-law, father-in-law, grandchild, grandparent, or stepparent.
      (7)   For purposes of this section, domestic partner includes the person
recognized as the domestic partner of the employee under any domestic
partnership or civil union law of a state or political subdivision of a state.
Domestic partner also includes an unmarried adult person who is in a committed,
personal relationship with the employee, who is not a domestic partner and not
in a such a relationship with any other person, or who the employee has
designated as his or her domestic partner to DeWitt County.
      (8)   An employee who is entitled to take paid or unpaid leave may elect
to substitute any period of paid leave for an equivalent period of unpaid
bereavement leave.
      (9)   DeWitt County prohibits retaliation against any employee who
exercises his or her rights under this section, opposes any practice that the
employee believes to be in violation of this section, or supports the exercise
of rights of another under this section.
      (10)   This section does not create a right for an employee to take
unpaid leave that exceeds the unpaid leave time allowed under, or in addition
to the unpaid leave time permitted by the federal Family and Medical Leave Act
of 1993.
   (D)   Educational leave. The Board may grant an employee a leave of absence
without pay for an appropriate academic term or terms for the purpose of
engaging in full-time studies at an accredited school which would benefit the
Board by improving the employee’s qualifications to perform the duties of his
or her position.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011; Res. 2022-07, passed 11-23-2022)
§ 38.079 FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE.
   (A)   Basic leave entitlement. FMLA requires covered employers to provide up
to 12 weeks of unpaid, job-protected leave to eligible employees for the
following reasons:
      (1)   For incapacity due to pregnancy, prenatal medical care or child
birth;
      (2)   To care for the employee’s child after birth, or placement for
adoption or foster care;
      (3)   To care for the employee’s spouse, son or daughter, or parent, who
has a serious health condition; and
      (4)   For a serious health condition that makes the employee unable to
perform the employee’s job.
   (B)   Military family leave entitlements.
      (1)   Eligible employees with a spouse, son, daughter or parent on active
duty or call duty status in the National Guard or Reserves in support of a
contingency operation may use their 12-week leave entitlement to address
certain qualifying exigencies. Qualifying exigencies may include attending
certain military events, arranging for alternative childcare, addressing
certain financial and legal arrangements, attending certain counseling sessions
and attending post-deployment reintegration briefings.
      (2)   FMLA also includes a special leave entitlement that permits
eligible employees to take up to 26 weeks of leave to care for a covered
service member during a single 12-month period. A covered service member is a
current member of the armed forces, including a member of the National Guard or
Reserves, on active duty, who has a serious injury or illness incurred in the
line of duty that may render the service member medically unfit to perform his
or her duties for which the service member is undergoing medical treatment,
recuperation or therapy; or is in outpatient status; or is on the temporary
disability retired list.
   (C)   Benefits and protections.
      (1)   During FMLA leave, the employer must maintain the employee’s health
coverage under any “group health plan” on the same terms as if the employee had
continued to work. Upon return from FMLA leave, most employees must be restored
to their original or equivalent positions with equivalent pay, benefits and
other employment terms.
      (2)   Use of FMLA leave cannot result in the loss of any employment
benefit that accrued prior to the start of an employee’s leave.
   (D)   Eligibility requirements. Employees are eligible if they have worked
for a covered employer for at least one year, for 1,250 hours over the previous
12 months, and if at least 50 employees are employed by the employer within 75
miles.
   (E)   Definition of “serious health condition”.
      (1)   A SERIOUS HEALTH CONDITION is an illness, injury, impairment or
physical or mental condition that involves either an overnight stay in a
medical care facility, or continuing treatment by a health care provider for a
condition that either prevents the employee from performing his or her job
functions, or prevents the qualified family member from participating in school
or other daily activities.
      (2)   Subject to certain conditions, the continuing treatment requirement
may be met by:
         (a)   A period of incapacity of more than three consecutive calendar
days combined with at least two visits to a health care provider;
         (b)   One visit and a regimen of continuing treatment;
         (c)   Incapacity due to pregnancy, or incapacity due to a chronic
condition; and
         (d)   Other conditions may meet the definition of continuing
treatment.
   (F)   Use of leave. An employee does not need to use this leave entitlement
in one block. Leave can be taken intermittently or on a reduced leave schedule
when medically necessary. Employees must make reasonable efforts to schedule
leave for planned medical treatment so as not to unduly disrupt the employer’s
operations. Leave due to qualifying exigencies may also be taken on an
intermittent basis.
   (G)   Substitution of paid leave for unpaid leave. Employees will be
required to use accrued paid leave while taking FMLA leave. In order to use
paid leave for FMLA leave, employees must comply with the employer’s normal
paid leave policies. The county does require the use of accrued paid leave
while taking FMLA leave and will be counted as part of the FMLA leave.
   (H)   Employee responsibilities.
      (1)   Employees must provide 30 days’ advance notice of the need to take
FMLA leave when the need is foreseeable. When 30 days’ notice is not possible,
the employee must provide notice as soon as practicable and generally must
comply with an employer’s normal call-in procedures.
      (2)   Employees must provide sufficient information for the employer to
determine if the leave may qualify for FMLA protection and the anticipated
timing and duration of the leave. Sufficient information may include that the
employee is unable to perform job functions; the family member is unable to
perform daily activities, the need for hospitalization or continuing treatment
by a health care provider, or circumstances supporting the need for military
family leave. Employees also must inform the employer if the requested leave is
for a reason for which FMLA leave was previously taken or certified. Employees
may also be required to provide a certification and periodic recertification
supporting the need for leave.
   (I)   Employer responsibilities.
      (1)   Covered employers must inform employees requesting leave whether
they are eligible under FMLA. If they are, the notice must specify any
additional information required as well as the employee’s rights and
responsibilities. If they are not eligible, the employer must provide a reason
for the ineligibility.
      (2)   Covered employers must inform employees if leave will be designated
as FMLA-protected and the amount of leave counted against the employee’s leave
entitlement. If the leave does qualify as FMLA leave, the employee has for up
to 12 weeks of unpaid/paid leave in a 12-month period calculated as a “rolling”
12-month period measured backward from the date of any FMLA leave usage.
      (3)   If the employer determines that the leave is not FMLA-protected,
the employer must notify the employee.
   (J)   Unlawful acts by employers. FMLA makes it unlawful for any employer
to:
      (1)   Interfere with, restrain or deny the exercise of any right provided
under FMLA; and/or
      (2)   Discharge or discriminate against any person for opposing any
practice made unlawful by FMLA or for involvement in any proceeding under or
relating to FMLA.
   (K)   Complaints.
      (1)   An employee may file a complaint with the U.S. Department of Labor
or may bring a private lawsuit against an employer.
      (2)   FMLA does not affect any federal or state law prohibiting
discrimination, or supersede any state or local law or collective bargaining
agreement which provides greater family or medical leave rights.
      (3)   For additional information: 1-866-4US-WAGE (1-866-487-9243), TTY:
1-877-889-5627, or www.wagehour.dol.gov.
      (4)   FMLA § 109 (29 U.S.C. § 2619) requires FMLA covered employers to
post the text of this notice. Regulation 29 C.F.R. § 825.300(a) may require
additional disclosures.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.080 DOMESTIC AND SEXUAL VIOLENCE LEAVE.
   (A)   Generally. The county will provide up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave from
work to an employee who is a victim of domestic or sexual violence (or who has
a family or household member who is a victim of domestic or sexual violence) to
address domestic or sexual violence if the employee is:
      (1)   Seeking medical attention for, or recovering from, physical or
psychological injuries caused by domestic or sexual violence to the employee or
the employee’s family or household member;
      (2)   Obtaining services from a victim services organization for the
employee or the employee’s family or household member;
      (3)   Obtaining psychological or other counseling for the employee or the
employee’s family or household member;
      (4)   Participating in safety planning, temporarily or permanently
relocating or taking other actions to increase the safety of the employee or
the employee’s family or household member from future domestic or sexual
violence or ensure economic security; or
      (5)   Seeking legal assistance or remedies to ensure the health and
safety of the employee or the employee’s family or household member, including
preparing for or participating in any civil or criminal legal proceeding
related to or derived from domestic or sexual violence.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. A spouse, parent, son, daughter, other person
related by blood or by present or prior marriage, other person who shares a
relationship through a son or daughter, and persons jointly residing in the
same household whose interests are not adverse to the employee as it relates to
the domestic or sexual violence.
      PARENT. The biological parent of an employee or an individual who stood
in loco parentis to an employee when the employee was a son or daughter.
      SON or DAUGHTER. A biological, adopted, or foster child, a stepchild, a
legal ward or a child of a person standing in loco parentis, who is under 18
years of age, or is 18 years of age or older and incapable of self-care because
of a mental or physical disability.
   (C)   Period of leave. An employee shall be entitled to a total of 12 work
weeks (note that, employers with less than 50 employees can provide eight weeks
instead of 12) of unpaid leave during any 12-month period. (This policy does
not create a right for an employee to take unpaid leave that exceeds the unpaid
leave time allowed under, or is in addition to the unpaid leave time permitted
by the Federal and Medical Leave Act.) Leave may be taken intermittently or on
a reduced work schedule.
   (D)   Existing leave. The employee may use any available paid or unpaid
leave (including family, medical, sick, annual, personal and the like) from
employment, pursuant to federal, state or local law, a collective bargaining
agreement or an employment benefits program or plan, in substitution for any
period of the leave for an equivalent period of leave.
   (E)   Employee notice requirements.
      (1)   The employee shall provide the county with at least 48-hours’
advance notice of the employee’s intention to take the leave unless providing
the notice is not practicable.
      (2)   When an unscheduled absence occurs, the county will not take any
action against the employee if the employee, within a reasonable period after
the absence (generally defined herein as 15 days) provides certification as
shown under the next section.
   (F)   Employee certification.
      (1)   The county may require the employee to provide certification to the
county that:
         (a)   The employee or the employee’s family or household member is a
victim of domestic or sexual violence; and
         (b)   The leave is for one of the purposes enumerated in division (F)
(1)(a) above.
      (2)   The employee shall provide the certification to the county within a
reasonable period after the county requests certification.
      (3)   An employee may satisfy the above certification requirement by
providing to the county a signed and dated statement of the employee and, upon
obtaining the documents, the employee shall provide:
         (a)   Documentation from an employee, agent or volunteer of a victim
services organization, an attorney, a member of the clergy or a medical or
other professional from whom the employee or the employee’s family or household
member has sought assistance in addressing domestic or sexual violence and the
effects of the violence;
         (b)   A police or court record; or
         (c)   Other corroborating evidence.
   (G)   Confidentiality. All information provided to the county, including a
statement of the employee or any other documentation, record or corroborating
evidence, and the fact that the employee has requested or obtained leave
pursuant to this policy, shall be retained in the strictest confidence by the
county, except to the extent that disclosure is:
      (1)   Requested or consented to in writing by the employee; or
      (2)   Otherwise required by applicable federal or state law.
   (H)   Restoration to position. In general, an employee who takes leave under
this policy shall be entitled, on return from the leave:
      (1)   To be restored by county to the position of employment held by the
employee when the leave commenced; or
      (2)   To be restored to an equivalent position with equivalent employment
benefits, play and other terms and conditions of employment.
   (I)   Loss of benefits.
      (1)   The taking of leave under this policy shall not result in the loss
of any employment benefit accrued prior to the date on which the leave
commenced. An employee may elect to substitute available paid leave any period
of leave under this policy. An employee will not be required to substitute
available paid leave provided under this policy.
      (2)   An employee who takes leave under this policy for the intended
purpose of the leave shall be entitled upon return from the leave to be
restored to the same position or to an equivalent position with equivalent
employment benefits, pay and other terms and conditions of employment.
      (3)   However, the employee is not entitled to:
         (a)   The accrual of any seniority or employment benefits during any
period of leave; or
         (b)   Any right, benefit or position of employment other than any
right, benefit or position to which the employee would have been entitled had
the employee not taken the leave.
   (J)   Reporting to the county. The county may require an employee on leave
under this policy to report periodically to the county on the status and
intention of the employee to return to work.
   (K)   Maintenance of health benefits. Except as provided under division (I)
above, during any period that an employee takes leave under this policy, the
county shall maintain coverage for the employee and any family or household
member under any group health plan for the duration of the leave at the level
and under the conditions coverage would have been provided if the employee had
continued in employment continuously for the duration of the leave.
   (L)   Failure to return from leave.
      (1)   The county may recover the premium that the county paid for
maintaining coverage for the employee and the employee’s family or household
member under the group health plan during the period of leave under this policy
if:
         (a)   The employee fails to return from leave under this policy after
the period of leave to which the employee is entitled has expired; and
         (b)   The employee fails to return to work for a reason other than:
            1.   The continuation, recurrence or on-set of domestic or sexual
violence that entitles the employee to leave; or
            2.   Other circumstance beyond the control of the employee.
      (2)   The county may require an employee who claims that the employee is
unable to return to work because of reason described in divisions (L)(1)(a) or
(L)(1)(b) above to provide, within a reasonable period after making the claim,
certification to the county that the employee is unable to return to work
because of that reason.
      (3)   An employee may satisfy the certification requirement above by
providing to the county:
         (a)   A sworn statement of the employee;
         (b)   Documentation from an employee, agent, or volunteer of a victim
services organization, an attorney, a member of the clergy or a medical or
other professional from whom the employee has sought assistance in addressing
domestic or sexual violence and the effects of that violence;
         (c)   A police or court record; or
         (d)   Other corroborating evidence.
      (4)   The county will not fail to hire, refuse to hire, discharge,
constructively discharge or harass any individual exercising their rights under
this policy or otherwise discriminate against any individual exercising his or
her rights under this policy with respect to the compensation, terms,
conditions or privileges of employment of the individual, or retaliate against
an individual in any form or manner for exercising his or her rights under this
policy.
   (M)   Leave availability calculation. The county has adopted a “rolling 12-
month period” method of calculating available leave. In order to determine the
amount of available leave, the calculation is made each time an employee
commences leave. From that date, the preceding 12-month period is examined. Any
leave used during that preceding 12 months is deducted from the 12-weeks’
annual leave provided by law under this policy. An employee is entitled to take
no more than the remaining balance of leave.
   (N)   Reference to required posting.
      (1)   The county has posted in the break room, a poster setting forth the
relevant provisions of the Victims’ Economic Security and Safety Act, being
ILCS Ch. 820, Act 180.
      (2)   The terms of that poster are incorporated in this policy document
as if they were specifically set forth.
      (3)   Each employee is charged with familiarizing himself or herself with
the contents of that poster concerning all applicable employee rights and
obligations under the Act.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
EMPLOYEE PERSONNEL RECORDS
§ 38.095 MAINTENANCE OF INDIVIDUAL PERSONNEL RECORDS.
   Individual personnel records will be maintained based on criteria outlined
by the County Board and the State Department of Public Health.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.096 CONFIDENTIALITY OF FILES.
   (A)   Individual personnel records are confidential.
   (B)   An employee may see his or her individual file upon written request to
the department head with an appointed representative present while viewing the
file.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.097 TYPE OF RECORDS.
   (A)   Personnel records may include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Application form completed when employees first applied for
position;
      (2)   Health forms and reports;
      (3)   Previous service record before employment by county;
      (4)   Pertinent correspondence;
      (5)   Pre-employment recommendations;
      (6)   Evaluations signed by the evaluator and the employee; and
      (7)   Other signed written comments, complaints, a copy of which has been
furnished to the employee, with the employee’s response if he or she so
chooses.
   (B)   The supervisor and the Board have the responsibility for preserving
the confidentiality of these files.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
POSITION CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM
§ 38.110 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of classifying positions is to differentiate responsibilities
and qualifications between positions in order to provide for an equitable
compensation system.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.111 MAINTENANCE OF CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM; SALARY SCALE.
   (A)   The County Board shall maintain and recommend revisions of a uniform
position classification plan.
   (B)   The salary scale, related to each class of positions, shall be based
on the following:
      (1)   Differential responsibilities between jobs;
      (2)   Skills and qualifications required to perform the duties; and
      (3)   Rate of pay comparable in other counties and units of government.
   (C)   The Finance Committee shall be responsible for recommending
classifications of all positions by title and grade.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.112 POSITION RECLASSIFICATION.
   Any significant changes to a position that changes the job classification
must be approved by the Finance Committee prior to making a change.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.113 NEW POSITIONS.
   New positions may not be filled unless there is an approved salary and job
description on file with the Finance Committee.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
WAGE AND SALARY ADMINISTRATION
§ 38.125 COMPENSATION POLICY.
   It is the policy of the County Board to provide fair and reasonable
compensation to employees for services rendered. Compensations shall be based
on salary grades.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.126 ENTRANCE LEVEL SALARIES.
   (A)   Normally, upon original entry to service, an employee’s salary will be
at the base level of the salary range of the position being filled.
   (B)   If a candidate possesses directly related training and experience in
excess of the minimum requirements of the class specification, the entrance
salary may be above base level, as determined by the Finance Committee.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.127 PERFORMANCE SALARY INCREASES.
   (A)   Employees in classes that are paid with the schedule of salary grades
may be recommended for performance increases by their department head annually.
   (B)   Performance increases will be extended when a performance evaluation
indicates satisfactory performance and increase has been adopted by the Finance
Committee.
   (C)   Each employee whose level of performance has been rated satisfactory
may be advanced in pay annually; provided, the employee was in a pay status at
the prior step at least 12 months.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.128 SALARY ADJUSTMENTS.
   An employee may receive an upward or downward adjustment in his or her base
for the purpose of correcting a previous error or oversight.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.129 TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT.
   Employees who are hired for positions designated as temporary by the Finance
Committee are not eligible for vacation leave, sick leave or other fringe
benefits.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.130 ACTING STATUS.
   Employees may be assigned to a higher classification in an “acting” status.
The employees will be paid at the salary rate designated for the position to be
filled.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.131 COMPENSATORY TIME.
   Employees shall be eligible to select compensatory time off in lieu of being
paid overtime hours earned under the following terms and conditions:
   (A)   The compensatory time off an employee may accumulate shall be capped
at 60 hours. Beyond this 60 hour cap, the employee must be paid earned overtime
and may not select compensatory time off in lieu thereof.
   (B)   During the first payroll of each December, all accumulated unused
compensatory time off for the previous 12 month period shall be paid to the
employee at their appropriate rate of pay, during the period of time in which
the time was earned, not inclusive of any subsequent pay rate increases
experienced subsequent thereto, at the end of that previous 12 month period,
thereby establishing a zero balance in compensatory time off every December 1.
Such payment shall be issued to the employee during the month of December.
   (C)   Compensatory time shall be calculated at the rate of one and one-half
hour for each hour actually worked over 40 hours in a work week or at the rate
of straight time for each hour actually worked over 35 hours in a work week but
less than 40.
   (D)   Requests to use compensatory time shall not be unreasonably denied,
and such approval/disapproval shall be based on manpower needs of the
Department and other relevant prevailing circumstances at the time.
   (E)   Employees may use the accrued time in increments of hours only. No use
of fractions of hours shall be permitted.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011; Res. 2015-11, passed 9-24-2015)
§ 38.132 OVERTIME PAY.
   (A)   Employees shall be paid their appropriate overtime rate of pay (one
and one-half their regular hourly rate of pay) for any hours actually worked in
excess of 40 hours. Overtime shall be paid to the employees in 15 minute
increments.
   (B)   Hours worked shall be defined as actual hours worked for the employer
not inclusive of sick, personal or vacation time used during the work week.
   (C)   This section shall be subject to the provisions of the Fair Labor
Standards Act, currently 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq., and any equivalent federal
or state legislation that may be enacted in the future.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011; Res. 2015-11, passed 9-24-2015)
§ 38.133 TRANSFERS AND PROMOTIONS.
   (A)   Any county employee may apply for a job opportunity in other county
departments.
   (B)   Interest for consideration for other positions must be presented to
current department head.
   (C)   The current department head will review qualifications and
availability with the prospective new department head, and communicate any
arrangement for further consideration back to the employee.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
CODE OF ETHICS; STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 38.145 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   It is considered a conflict for any employee to receive compensation for any
purpose whatsoever from any business which is party to any contract entered
into by the County Board.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.146 MISUSE OF FUNDS OR MATERIALS.
   (A)   Personal use of state or county funds or in violation of state law;
   (B)   Personal use or use by unauthorized person of any public equipment,
materials or funds;
   (C)   Violation of state law;
   (D)   Charitable or memorial gifts to employees will be by voluntary
contribution. Use of office or county funds is prohibited; and
   (E)   Violations will be addressed in §§
38.160 and
38.161.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.147 MISREPRESENTATION.
   Deliberate misrepresentation of facts made in connection with obtaining
employment with the county is prohibited and subject to immediate dismissal.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.148 BRIBERY.
   (A)   Acceptance of solicitation of money or other consideration in exchange
for special consideration in the discharge of duties as an employee of the
county.
   (B)   Failure to report any attempt of bribery and otherwise unlawful
discharge of official duties is prohibited and subject to immediate dismissal.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.149 STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   All employees should dress and conduct themselves in a professional
manner.
   (B)   The County Board expects honesty from its employees in all of their
relationships arising from their employment.
   (C)   (1)   The purpose of this policy is to assure, to the extent possible,
that the county remains drug free as a place of employment. The county has a
“zero tolerance” policy toward the consumption of alcohol or drugs by employees
on duty or while on county property. The consumption of any amount of alcohol
or illegal narcotics while an employee is on duty or on a periodic rest break
or lunch break is prohibited. The unlawful manufacture, distribution,
dispensation, possession or use of cannabis, a controlled substance or alcohol
by a county employee is prohibited in the county workplace, including any and
all instances while the employee is performing work for or on behalf of the
county. In addition, this prohibition also applies to all county employees who
are on county property, but not actively at work at the time.
      (2)   If there is a reasonable suspicion that a county employee is
involved in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensation, possession or
use of drugs or alcohol, the situation will be immediately investigated by the
department head, his or her designee or immediate supervisor. In the case of
employee usage, the employee will be subjected to immediate drug testing. If
the investigator of the situation finds a county employee to be unlawfully
manufacturing, distributing, dispensing, possession or using drugs or alcohol
at the workplace, while performing work for the county, or on county property,
the actions against the employee shall be in accord with §
38.175.
      (3)   The severity of the situation and appropriate corrective discipline
shall be determined by the department head, his or her designee or immediate
supervisor in according with §
38.161. In addition, any situation that could involve a criminal offense shall
be immediately reported to the County State’s Attorney’s Office for possible
prosecution, independently of any action taken due to the individual’s status
as a county employee. If appropriate, the county will also require the employee
to satisfactorily participate in drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation
program approved for those purposes by a federal, state or local health, law
enforcement or other appropriate agency. The county will assist the employee in
the selection of a drug counseling, treatment or rehabilitation program.
      (4)   As a condition of employment, a county employee will abide by the
terms stated in this drug free workplace policy. Employees will notify the
employer of any criminal drug statute conviction no later than five days after
the conviction and participate in the county drug free awareness program. If
the county receives notice from an employee of a conviction of a violation of a
criminal drug statute, the county will take appropriate action against the
employee up to and including termination of employment and/or provide employee
assistance as stated above.
   (D)   All employees of the county shall conduct themselves in a courteous
and professional manner.
   (E)   Solicitation (by employees or others) of county employees is
prohibited.
   (F)   Courtesy and identification of oneself should be used whenever placing
or answering a call.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
§ 38.160 CONDUCT SUBJECT TO DISCIPLINARY ACTION.
   Violations of the standards of conduct set forth in the personnel policies
may be subject to disciplinary action up to including termination.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.161 TYPES OF DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS.
   (A)   Disciplinary actions. Disciplinary action may be incremental in
nature. The period the violation will be on employee’s record is up to the
discretion of the supervisor, but cannot be more than three years.
   (B)   Oral warning. The first notice of discipline may be an oral warning.
   (C)   Written warning. When the severity of the violation does not justify
the disciplinary actions of a suspension, the matter may be addressed through
written warning to the employee as a disciplinary measure. The written notice
shall be transmitted to the employee and a copy placed in the employee’s
personnel file. The notice shall bear the signature of the issuing official.
   (D)   Suspensions. When the severity of the violation suggests termination,
but is mitigated by extenuating circumstances, suspension of the employee for a
period of not more than 30 days may be imposed.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
Cross-reference:
   Order of suspension form, see
Appendix A, § 2
   Written warning form, see
Appendix A, § 1
TERMINATIONS
§ 38.175 TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Employees subject to these personnel policies may be terminated or
laid off from their employment with the county upon determination either that
the position the employee holds is no longer necessary for the efficient
operation of the county, or that adequate funding for the position is no longer
available.
   (B)   If it becomes necessary for the county to terminate the employment of
an employee based on reduction of force or job elimination, two weeks’ notice
or two weeks’ severance pay will be extended to the employee as will pro rata
pay for earned, but unused vacation.
   (C)   Terminations for reasons of fraud or misconduct will not be given
severance or notice.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
BENEFITS
§ 38.190 GROUP INSURANCE.
   (A)   The first day of the month following 60 days of service, full-time
employees, as defined in §
38.002, are eligible to participate in employee benefit programs that are
available.
   (B)   An employee who waives participation at the first enrollment
opportunity, and later wishes to participate, will have to wait until the
annual open enrollment period unless experiencing a qualifying event, i.e.
marriage, divorce, birth of child, court order.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011; Ord. passed 7-10-2014)
§ 38.191 RETIREMENT.
   (A)   Immediately beginning full-time service, eligible employees are
required to participate in the State Municipal Retirement Fund (IMRF).
   (B)   Following retirement and meeting the IMRF’s criteria to obtain
retirement benefits and having attained the required age under state law, a
retired employee will be eligible to carry county insurance at his or her own
expense until he or she is eligible for Medicare.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011; Res. passed 4-23-2015)
§ 38.192 ARBITRATION.
   (A)   It is the policy of the County Board to have a procedure for
arbitration in the event no satisfactory solution may otherwise be reached.
   (B)   (1)   If, within 14 days, the involved parties cannot mutually agree
on the selection of an arbitrator, a list of seven arbitrators may be obtained
from the State Labor Relations Board. The involved parties may then alternately
dismiss the names of three arbitrators until one name remains.
      (2)   This person shall then preside as arbitrator.
   (C)   A jointly constructed letter notifying the arbitrator of his or her
selection, date, time and place for the hearing should be sent. All hearings
should be held in the county unless other arrangements are mutually agreed
upon.
   (D)   Each party involved is responsible for expenses necessary to present
their case. Each party shares equally the cost of the arbitrator.
   (E)   The decision of the arbitrator is binding.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES
§ 38.205 GRIEVANCE POLICY.
   Employees shall have the right to present their grievance without prejudice
or fear of retaliation. Employees presenting a grievance may do so without a
representative at any level of the grievance.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.206 BARGAINING UNIT EMPLOYEES.
   Bargaining unit employees shall consult appropriate articles of written
agreements for applicable grievance procedures.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.207 NON-BARGAINING UNIT EMPLOYEES.
   This policy shall provide a means for resolving complaints against the
employee which involve the interpretation or application of policies.
   (A)   Step 1. A bona fide effort should be made to resolve a grievance
informally. An employee shall submit a grievance orally within ten work days of
the first event to the department head. The department head shall respond
orally within five work days after its submission. If the grievance is not
resolved orally, it shall be submitted in writing within five work days
following receipt of the oral response from the department head. The written
grievance shall state the relevant facts and cite the provision or provisions
allegedly violated, along with the specific relief requested. The department
head shall give his or her written answer within ten work days after receipt of
written grievance. If the grievance is against the office holder, it shall be
submitted to the Finance Committee. The Finance Committee shall address the
grievance within five working days after it is received.
   (B)   Step 2. If the grievance is not settled at Step 1 and the grievant
wishes to appeal the grievance to Step 2, it shall be referred in writing to
the Finance Committee within five work days after receipt of the written answer
at Step 1 and shall be signed by the grievant. The Finance Committee shall give
a written answer within ten work days after submission of the grievance at Step
2.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
ACCIDENTS
§ 38.220 REPORTING OF ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   It is the employee’s responsibility to report all accidents and
injuries within 48 hours to his or her supervisor. It is necessary that the
employee have the department head or designee complete an incident report form.
Failure to immediately report an incident may eliminate coverage by workers’
compensation insurance. Department heads are responsible for immediately
reporting all safety hazards to the Board office.
   (B)   An employee who suffers an on the job injury shall be granted an
initial leave with full pay up to two working days without utilization of any
accumulated sick leave or other benefits. In case of absence thereafter, the
employee shall be permitted to utilize his or her accumulated sick leave.
   (C)   If medical attention is necessary during normal business hours, the
employee shall see his or her physician. If it is an emergency situation or the
physician is unavailable, then the employee shall go to the emergency room.
   (D)   In the event the employment-related injury becomes the subject of an
award of the State Industrial Commission or is otherwise compensated for under
applicable law, the employee shall immediately remit to the employer the dollar
equivalent which duplicates payment received as sick leave days, whereupon the
employee’s sick leave account shall be recredited with the number of sick leave
days used and recompensated for. The employer, upon notice of one payroll
period to the employee, may deduct the above mentioned remittance in cases
where the employee fails to remit the appropriate dollar equivalent.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
BUILDING CLOSING POLICY
§ 38.235 PERSONS AUTHORIZED TO RECOMMEND CLOSING OF COUNTY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Conditions requiring closing will dictate the persons involved in the
decision to close the county buildings.
   (B)   The following will be the only persons with separate or collective
authority to recommend a closing to the County Sheriff:
      (1)   Chairperson of the County Board;
      (2)   Chairperson of the County Property Committee;
      (3)   County Sheriff;
      (4)   Resident Circuit Judge (emergency only); and
      (5)   EMA Coordinator.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.236 CONDITIONS FOR CLOSING OF COUNTY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The closing of the county buildings should occur when it is improper
or dangerous for employees or the public to occupy the building.
   (B)   These conditions include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Failure of the environmental system (heat, air conditioning,
water);
      (2)   Notification of a possible act of violence (bomb threat); and
      (3)   Weather related emergencies (snow, tornado and the like).
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.237 NOTIFICATION OF CLOSING.
   (A)   The county building employees, elected officials and the public must
be notified in the event of a building closure.
   (B)   When the decision is made in advance to allow notification on the day
prior to the closing, the following should be adhered to.
      (1)   All elected officials and department heads will be notified who are
in turn responsible for notifying their own employees.
      (2)   The responsible person making the decision (see §
38.235), is responsible for notification of local media and law enforcement of
the times, possible duration and reasons for the closure.
      (3)   When closure is required, and the time frame does not allow for
prior notification, the elected officials and department heads will be notified
upon arrival for business day. The elected officials and department heads will
assume responsibility for notification of their employees.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.238 PAYMENT OF EMPLOYEES DURING CLOSURE.
   Employees required to leave the building due to building closure will be
paid for any time not worked because of the closure.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.239 RE-OPENING OF COUNTY BUILDINGS.
   The return to complete or partial operation of the county buildings will be
the decision of the responsible person, as set forth in §
38.235. Notification will be made to the media and the affected office holders
and/or department heads.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
EVALUATIONS
§ 38.250 PURPOSE OF EVALUATIONS.
   The purpose of evaluations shall be as follows:
   (A)   Assessment of performance for retention, reassignment or promotion of
salary advancement;
   (B)   Improvement of performance through constructive suggestions which will
help the individual realize their full potential; and
   (C)   Maintaining in each employee’s personnel files a record of their
performance for the county.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.251 GUIDELINES FOR EVALUATIONS.
   (A)   The supervisor of each employee in his or her department should
complete an annual performance evaluation report using applicable form for the
job classification. A copy should be given to the employee and discussed with
him or her. The original should be signed by the employee and the supervisor
and placed in the employee’s personnel file. Employees have the right to make
comments on their file as an addendum.
   (B)   A specific time should be designated for formal evaluation sessions
with the Finance Committee using the performance report as one tool in
attaching salary raises. The evaluation session should include discussion of
strengths and weaknesses. Any judgment should be supported by as much rationale
and objective evidence as possible.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.252 SUPPORT STAFFING FOR EVALUATIONS.
   The County Board may enter into contractual agreements with an organization,
company or individual to provide the Board whatever assistance is needed to
properly review, reevaluate or update evaluations. The charge for those
services should be established before engaging the services.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
EMPLOYEE TRAVEL POLICY
§ 38.265 GENERAL TRAVEL POLICY.
   Because some officers and employees of the county are required to travel
during the course of their employment, it is necessary that established
guidelines be followed. This policy affects business trips, but is also
applicable to travel that directly relates to seminars, conventions and
training courses. Officers and employees are encouraged to attend the closest
site.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011; Res. 2016-10, passed 12-22-2016)
§ 38.266 AUTHORIZATION FOR TRAVEL.
   (A)   General travel reimbursement.
      (1)   There are three basic criteria that must be met prior to
reimbursement for any travel for which reimbursement is to be requested from
the county.
      (2)   These criteria are:
         (a)   Need. A definite need is identified that the travel is
necessary;
         (b)   Expenditure. The proposed expenditure is budgeted and does not
exceed the maximum amounts for travel, meals and lodging as set forth in the
employee travel policy; and
         (c)   Approval. A travel reimbursement form is submitted which
identifies:
            A.   The estimated dollar amount of the cost of travel, meals, or
lodging if expenses have not been incurred or a receipt of the cost of the
travel, meals, or lodging if the expenses have already been incurred;
            B.   The name of the individual who received or is requesting the
travel, meal or lodging expense;
            C.   the job title or office of the individual who received or is
requesting the trial, meal, or lodging expense; and
            D.   The date or dates and the nature of the official business in
which the travel, meal, or lodging expense was or will be expended.
   (B)   Authorization for travel reimbursement exceeding maximum amounts.
      (1)   Any officer or employee that seeks reimbursement that exceeds the
maximum expense allowed for travel, meals, or lodging under the employee travel
policy, shall seek approval for such expenditure by roll call vote at an open
meeting before the County Board or before such committee as may hereafter be
authorized by the County Board.
      (2)   Criteria to be provided for authorization for reimbursement
exceeding maximum amounts shall be the same as provided for general travel
reimbursement.
      (3)   Whenever practicable, authorization under this section should be
sought prior to incurring the expense.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011; Res. 2016-10, passed 12-22-2016)
§ 38.267 TRANSPORTATION.
   (A)   All travel shall be by the most economical mode of transportation
available considering travel time, costs and work requirements.
   (B)   Modes of transportation authorized for office travel include;
automobiles, railroads, airplanes, buses, taxicabs and usual means of
conveyance. County vehicles may be used when the most practical, upon approval.
   (C)   Arrangements on airplanes, trains and boats shall be the least costly
reasonably available alternative.
   (D)   Chartered aircraft, boats, trains, buses or other conveyance shall be
used only as the last resort or if proven to be the most economical for the
circumstances. A full explanation for the use of the transportation must
accompany the voucher.
   (E)   The rental of an automobile while on travel status is allowed, if the
circumstances require. The most economical vehicle available that is for county
business shall be obtained. Collision damage and personal accident insurance on
rented vehicles are not reimbursable.
   (F)   Privately-owned vehicles may be used when the use conforms to division
(A) of this section. Private vehicles used for county business must have
adequate insurance coverage. Prior to the authorization, employees are required
to file a statement certifying that they are duly licensed and carry at least
the minimum insurance coverage or the certification shall be noted on the
travel voucher. Reimbursement for use of a private vehicle shall be on mileage
basis and shall be at the rate of $0.40 per mile, effective 12-1-2008.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011; Res. 2016-10, passed 12-22-2016)
§ 38.268 ROUTING OF TRAVEL.
   (A)   Travel shall be by the most direct route with the following
exceptions: travel by less direct route saves time; less direct route is safer;
or detour was necessary because of highway construction. Travel by other routes
may be allowed when officially necessary.
   (B)   Distances between destinations shall be shown on the state highway map
published by the Secretary of State. Where no mileages are available, odometer
readings may be used. Mileage in and around a city of destination may be
claimed as such.
   (C)   Individuals choosing to travel by an indirect route or interrupt
travel by direct route shall bear all additional expenses. Reimbursement for
expenses shall be on the most direct mileage unless deviation is authorized.
   (D)   Mileage reimbursement will be payable to the owner of the vehicle.
   (E)   Car pooling or use of county-owned vehicles should be encouraged.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011; Res. 2016-10, passed 12-22-2016)
§ 38.269 EXPENSES RELATED TO TRANSPORTATION.
   (A)   Reimbursement for the cost of automobile parking fees and tolls shall
be allowed.
   (B)   When the use of a common carrier is a reasonable alternative, the
mileage payment shall not exceed the cost of its use. A reasonable alternative
exists when the cost of travel, taking into account both transportation times,
meal expenses, would be less if a common carrier were used.
   (C)   (1)   Where the nature and location of work at a temporary duty
station are such that suitable meals cannot be procured there, the expenses of
daily travel required to procure meals at the nearest available place shall be
considered necessary transportation.
      (2)   A statement of the necessity for the delay travel shall be provided
with a reimbursement voucher.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011; Res. 2016-10, passed 12-22-2016)
§ 38.270 LODGING.
   (A)   Only commercial lodging may be reimbursed. Lodging allowances are as
follows:
      (1)   Downstate Illinois: Counties of Champaign, Kankakee, LaSalle,
McLean, Macon, Madison, Peoria, Rock Island, St. Clair, Sangamon, Tazewell, and
Winnebago - $70 per night.
      (2)   Downstate Illinois: All other counties - $60 per night.
      (3)   Chicago Metro - $190 per night.
      (4)   Collar Counties - $80 per night.
      (5)   Out-of-state - $90 per night.
      (6)   If a conference is held at a hotel and the governmental rate sought
to be reimbursed is more than the above listed maximum, approval for such
expenditure shall be as set forth in § 38.266(B).
   (B)   The county does not permit reimbursement for the use of employee owned
or controlled housing while on travel status.
   (C)   Lodging expenses shall only be reimbursed for county officers or
employees.
   (D)   The county does not permit reimbursement for lodging within a 50-mile
radius of Clinton.
   (E)   No lodging will be reimbursed for one-day seminars.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011; Res. 2016-10, passed 12-22-2016)
§ 38.271 MEAL ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   A meal allowance of $35 per day shall be paid with itemized receipts
being submitted.
   (B)   Breakfast is payable when an employee is on travel status and leaves
the county or residence, if reporting directly to the destination, at or before
6:30 a.m. in the amount of $7.
   (C)   Lunch is payable when the employee is on travel status during the
standard lunch hour in the amount of $13.
   (D)   Dinner is payable when an employee is on travel status and arrives
back in the county or at residence, if reporting directly from destination, at
or after 7:00 p.m. in the amount of $15.
   (E)   Reimbursement for the cost of meals for official meetings or seminars,
which are billed separately from the registration fee for the seminar or
meeting, will be allowed in full when approved, whenever practicable, in
advance as an essential part of the employee's attendance.
   (F)   Meals when travelers are attending an official meeting or seminar and
meals are provided or the cost of meals is included in the registration fee are
payable in full.
   (G)   Meals purchased for non-county employees while on travel status and in
connection with county business are reimbursable in reasonable amounts. A
statement specifying why, for whom and certifying that the claim does not
include alcoholic beverages, shall be attached to the reimbursement voucher.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011; Res. 2016-10, passed 12-22-2016)
§ 38.272 REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES.
   (A)   The cost of business related special expenses, if reasonable, shall be
reimbursed with proper receipts.
   (B)   Examples are:
      (1)   Hire of room, exhibit space and setup for official business;
      (2)   Laundry and dry cleaning if on travel status for at least seven
consecutive days;
      (3)   Storage and handling of baggage;
      (4)   Taxis, including reasonable tips not to exceed 15% of the total
bill;
      (5)   Telephone calls on official business including calls of three
minutes or less to announce safe arrival or delay/change in plans; and
      (6)   Telephone calls to secure lodging.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.273 NON-REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES.
   (A)   The cost of certain business related expenses are not allowable.
   (B)   Examples are:
      (1)   Alcoholic beverages;
      (2)   Coat check;
      (3)   Entertainment;
      (4)   Late check-in and room guarantee charges;
      (5)   Meals for other county employees or officers;
      (6)   Parking tickets or other traffic tickets; and
      (7)   Tips incurred beyond the accepted rate (15% of total bill).
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
ACTIVATION OF EMERGENCY SIRENS
§ 38.285 DUTY OF SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT TO ACTIVATE SYSTEM.
   It shall be the duty of the Sheriff’s Department personnel to activate the
emergency siren system in the appropriate zones in the event of an emergency.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.286 WHEN SYSTEM WILL BE ACTIVATED.
   Activation of the system will begin upon receiving notification of an
emergency by:
   (A)   Sheriff’s Deputies;
   (B)   EMA Coordinator;
   (C)   Weather spotters;
   (D)   Official law enforcement agency located within the county;
   (E)   Information from National Weather Service;
   (F)   Information from residents of the county willing to provide their
names, addresses and phone numbers; and
   (G)   State police.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.287 EMA OFFICE TO BE MANNED AND OPERATIONAL WHEN SYSTEM ACTIVATED.
   In the event of the sirens being activated, the EMA office should be manned
and operational. In those instances when the EMA office is not able to be
manned and operational by EMA personnel, the Sheriff’s Department will provide
backup.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.288 NOTIFICATION TO LOCAL RADIO STATIONS.
   Local radio stations will be notified when sirens are activated. Notice
shall include reason and location of the emergency causing sirens to be
activated.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.289 FALSE ALARMS.
   It is better to sound the sirens, as a warning for the county’s citizens, in
anticipation of an emergency than never sounding the sirens at all. The amount
of false alarms should be minimal following the procedures above.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
USE OF COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS
§ 38.300 STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   It is the policy of the county to provide or contract for the communications
services and equipment necessary to promote the efficient conduct of its
business.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.301 PASSWORDS.
   Employees should never share or reveal their passwords. Employees are
advised that they are solely responsible for actions conducted under their
password or with their user name.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.302 PRIVACY AND MONITORING.
   (A)   All communications services and equipment, including the messages
transmitted or stored by them, are the sole property of the county.
Accordingly, the county may access and monitor employee communications and
files as it considers appropriate.
   (B)   On-line services and the internet may be accessed only by employees
specifically authorized by the county. An employee’s on-line use should be
limited to work-related activities. Any violation of accessing anything other
than work-related activities may result in the employee’s authorization being
revoked from the system. In addition, employees should not duplicate or
download from the internet or from an e-mail any software or materials that are
copyrighted, patented, trademarked or otherwise identified as intellectual
property without express permission from the owner of the material. When
appropriate internet material or e-mail files are downloaded, they should be
scanned using the anti-virus software.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.303 DISCIPLINE.
   Violations will result in disciplinary action, up to and including,
dismissal from employment and, if applicable, possible criminal or civil
penalties or other legal action.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.304 DEPARTMENT HEAD OR ELECTED OFFICIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   Department heads and elected officials are to ensure employees of their
offices or departments read, understand, and sign a recognition form
recognizing that they are responsible for abiding by the policies and
procedures outlined in this policy.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.305 VIRUS/PROBLEM REPORTING.
   If an employee suspects a virus and/or problems have been introduced to a
computer, he or she should notify the County Board Executive Administrative
Assistant immediately.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
EDUCATIONAL EXPENSES
§ 38.320 PAYMENT BY COUNTY FOR CLASSES AND SEMINARS.
   (A)   The county will pay the expenses for certified officers of the
Supervisor of Assessments personnel while attending classes/seminars. Upon
receipt of the educational stipend from the State Department of Revenue, full
reimbursement of expenses must be made to the county’s General Fund.
Reimbursable expenses include:
      (1)   Mileage at the published mileage rate for the county;
      (2)   Lodging if within the limits of the existing travel policy;
      (3)   Meals associated directly with the attendance of the course; and
      (4)   Registration and/or books.
   (B)   Regular wages will continue to be paid for classes/seminars attended
during the regular working
hours.
   (C)   No wages will be paid for classes/seminars attended outside of regular
working hours.
   (D)   Upon prior discretionary approval by the employer, employees may be
eligible for reimbursement of all tuition and fees for approved programs and/or
courses which are successfully completed at an institution of higher learning
when the programs and/or courses are related to and beneficial in the
performance of their employment duties. However, the employer shall deduct and
be entitled to reimbursement from any employee, for any and all costs paid to
the employee, upon his or her resignation of employment, pursuant to the
following schedule: 100% reimbursement if resigning within one year of
completing the program and/or courses; 50% reimbursement if resigning within
two years; and 25% reimbursement if resigning within three years. The employer
is authorized herein to withhold any amounts appropriate pursuant to this
section from the employee’s final paycheck.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.321 REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES FOR NON-CERTIFIED EMPLOYEES.
   The county will pay reimbursable expenses per the existing mileage and
travel policy for those non-certified employees of the Supervisor of
Assessments office up to the point of certification.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
ANTI-HARASSMENT POLICY
§ 38.335 STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   (A)   It is the policy of the county government to provide to all officials
and employees a productive work environment free of harassment based upon
gender, ethnicity, race, religious affiliation, age and physical and mental
disability, as well as sexual harassment. It is the right of all employees to
work in an environment free from harassment, and the responsibility of all
employees to refrain from harassment. The county prohibits sexual harassment
and harassment based upon gender, ethnicity, race, religious affiliation and
physical and mental disability of and by its employees. Harassment is
inappropriate, offensive and, in specific cases, may be illegal and will not be
tolerated by the county.
   (B)   HARASSMENT refers to physical or verbal actions that have the purpose
or effect of substantially or unreasonably interfering with a person’s work
performance; and which create a hostile, intimidating or offensive environment.
The actions, intentional or not, can annoy or disturb members of one sex,
ethnicity, race, religion, age and disability. Examples include, but are not
limited to:
      (1)   Unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors or physical
conduct of a sexual nature;
      (2)   Any sexual, ethnic, racial, gender or religious related jokes,
comments, insults, cartoons, innuendoes or personal conduct or mannerisms that
could be construed as offensive, intimidating or hostile as measured from the
point of view of a reasonable person of the same gender, ethnicity, race,
religion, age or physical and mental capability;
      (3)   Demeaning, insulting, intimidating or sexually suggestive comments
about an individual;
      (4)   Repeated unwanted, unwarranted or unsolicited off-duty telephone
calls, contact or conduct which violates this policy;
      (5)   Transferring, promoting, demoting or dismissing employees who
receive sexual advances, (i.e., submission to or rejection of the conduct is
used as the basis for employment decisions); and
      (6)   Displaying/circulating or permitting the display/circulation of
pictures, drawings, graffiti, written materials, photographs, other objects,
recorded or electronically transmitted messages that could be considered
demeaning, insulting, intimidating or sexually suggestive.
   (C)   (1)   The county directs all employees and supervisory personnel
within the county to ensure that their workplaces are free of harassment.
      (2)   Department heads and supervisory personnel shall be responsible for
supporting training on sexual, ethnic, racial, religious, age and disability-
related harassment prevention and this harassment policy. Department heads and
supervisory personnel shall post and distribute this policy, encourage
employees to report harassment incidents and assure employees they do not have
to endure a hostile or negative work environment.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 38.336 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Confidentiality. Employees are encouraged to report incidents of
harassment and/or ask questions about conduct that may be considered harassment
of any kind in confidence and without fear of retaliation. The disclosure of
allegations shall be restricted to individuals directly involved with the
incident or in the investigation process and shall not be discussed with anyone
else. It is as important to protect the confidentiality rights of the alleged
harasser as it is the rights of the complainant. Any employee bringing a good
faith harassment complaint or assisting in the investigation of a complaint
will not be adversely affected in the terms and conditions of employment, nor
discriminated against or discharged because of the complaint or assistance.
   (B)   False or frivolous complaints. False and frivolous charges refer to
cases where the complainant is using a harassment complaint to accomplish some
end other than stopping harassment based upon gender, ethnicity, race,
religious affiliation, age and mental and physical disability, and more
specifically sexual harassment. This does not include charges made in good
faith which cannot be proven. Given the seriousness of the consequences for the
accused, a false and/or frivolous charge is a severe offense that will result
in disciplinary action as suggested in division (F)(1) below.
   (C)   Initial step.
      (1)   An employee who believes that she or he is being harassed may first
identify the offensive behavior to the offending party as directly and firmly
as possible and request that it stop.
      (2)   Employees are particularly urged to take this step if they believe
that the offensive conduct may be unintentional.
      (3)   However, if the employee does not feel comfortable confronting the
offending party; feels threatened or intimated by the situation; or the
behavior continues after a confrontation with the offending party, a written
complaint should be filed in accordance with the county policy.
   (D)   Reporting.
      (1)   All complaints should be in writing, describing in detail the
following:
         (a)   Name of the offending party;
         (b)   Nature of the offending conduct;
         (c)   Date, time and location of the incident;
         (d)   Whether the offending party was advised by the victim to stop;
and
         (e)   Whether the offending party stopped suspect action after
notification by the victim.
      (2)   The written complaint must be filed in accordance with the county’s
procedure. Complaints should be filed with the department supervisory
personnel. In the event that the alleged harasser is a non-employee, the
incident shall be reported to supervisory personnel or department head who
shall take all appropriate action and may wish to confer with the State’s
Attorney’s Office or the Sheriff’s Department in regards to the incident. In
the event that the supervisory personnel is the alleged harasser, the employee
should then file the complaint with the next higher supervisory personnel or
the department head. If an appointed department head or elected official, other
than the Finance Chair, is the alleged harasser, the complaint should be filed
with the Finance Committee Chair. In the event the Finance Committee Chair is
the alleged harasser, the complaint should be filed with the County Board
Chair.
   (E)   Investigation.
      (1)   Once the proper authority has been notified that authority shall
designate an investigating party which that authority deems as having the
knowledge, ability and expertise to conduct a thorough and complete
investigation, the investigating party shall immediately initiate a thorough
investigation. The complainant shall be assured confidentiality in the
investigation to the extent possible. The complainant should be made aware,
that in order to investigate the complaint to its fullest extent, it may be
necessary to make his or her name known and/or necessary for the complainant to
confront the alleged harasser. Confidentiality shall be maintained in
conducting a property investigation.
      (2)   In order to assure a proper and thorough investigation, all
investigations of any harassment charges shall be conducted in the following
manner.
         (a)   The investigating party shall conduct an interview with the
employee who filed the complaint. The intent of the interview is to determine a
true and complete account of the complaint. The following information should be
sought in the interview: severity of conduct; the number and frequency of acts
of alleged harassment; the apparent intent of the alleged harasser; the
relationship of the parties; and the relative work environment.
         (b)   The investigating party shall interview all other individuals
who witnessed or may have witnessed the incident and/or who may have knowledge
of the incident.
         (c)   The investigating party shall interview the alleged harasser and
inform the individual that a complaint has been made against him or her. The
individual shall be informed that the incident is not to be discussed with co-
workers and that retaliatory action against the complainant will not be
tolerated and will result in disciplinary action.
         (d)   The investigating party shall review any other relevant
information or evidence and/or interview any other relevant witnesses.
         (e)   The investigating party shall make a written record of the
interviews and any other aspects of the investigation, noting the suggested
disciplinary action set forth in this policy.
         (f)   The investigating party shall prepare a written summary of the
findings of the investigation. These findings shall then be reported to either
the department head of the alleged harasser; the Finance Committee Chair in the
case that an appointed department head or elected official (other than the
Finance Committee Chair) is the alleged harasser; or the County Board Chair if
the alleged harasser is the Finance Committee Chair, for appropriate action.
   (F)   Disciplinary action.
      (1)   The department head, Finance Committee Chair or County Board Chair
shall review the report of the investigation and make a determination as to
whether the alleged harasser has committed harassment based upon gender,
ethnicity, race, religious affiliation, age or mental and physical disability,
or more specifically, sexual harassment. If so, the appropriate action and/or
discipline shall be determined and imposed by the department head, Finance
Committee Chair or County Board Chair, as appropriate.
      (2)   If the department head, Finance Committee Chair, or County Board
Chair is not the supervisory personnel of the alleged harasser or is not
authorized to impose disciplinary action on the alleged harasser, any or all
action within the bounds of the department head, the Finance Committee Chair or
the County Board Chair should be taken to alleviate the unwarranted and
unwelcome action of the alleged harasser.
      (3)   (a)   The discipline imposed should reflect the severity of the
improper conduct, taking into consideration the nature and frequency of the
conduct; the relationship of the parties involved; the intent of the offending
party; and any other relevant information.
         (b)   Severity shall be determined and discipline administered using
the following as guidelines only:
            1.   Type A offense. The harassment is of a verbal, visual and/or
non-physical nature. The suggested discipline for this type of behavior is a
verbal reprimand;
            2.   Type B offense. The harassment is of a physical nature or the
offender has made sexual or other propositions. In addition, a second
occurrence of a type A offense or any retaliation of the accused directed
toward the complainant is considered a type B offense. The recommended
discipline for this behavior is a written reprimand; and
            3.   Type C offense. The harassment is of a serious physical
nature, meaning coerced or forced encounters or assault. Also, type C offenses
are third occurrences of a type A offense or second occurrences of type B
offenses. It is recommended that this behavior result in suspension or
dismissal from employment.
      (4)   Any charges criminal in nature are required to be reported by the
department head, Finance Committee Chair or County Board Chair to the State’s
Attorney. The charges will be processed independent of the harassment
investigation. In all cases, the complainant shall be notified of the results
of the investigation and the discipline imposed, if any.
      (5)   Complainants may also exercise their rights to contact the State
Department of Human Rights or the Equal Employment Opportunities Commission
under the United States Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Title VII), being 42 U.S.C.
§§ 2000e et seq., if deemed necessary. However, these agencies, as well as the
county, encourage the resolution of the issues at the local level so employees
are encouraged to first report their initial complaint to their immediate
supervisor, department head, Finance Committee Chair, County Board Chair,
respectively and to seek a remedy using these procedures before accessing state
or federal agencies.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
DISCRIMINATION, HARASSMENT AND SEXUAL ASSAULT POLICY
§ 38.345 STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   (A)   It is the County of DeWitt's policy that it will not tolerate or
condone discrimination or harassment on the basis of race, color, religion,
creed, sex, gender-identity, gender-expression, sexual orientation, pregnancy,
childbirth, medical or common conditions relating to pregnancy and childbirth,
genetic information, national origin, age, physical or mental disability,
ancestry, marital status, military status, arrest record, unfavorable discharge
from military service, order of protection status, citizenship status or any
other classification protected under federal or state law. Sexual misconduct is
also prohibited. The County of DeWitt will neither tolerate nor condone
discrimination, harassment or sexual misconduct by employees, managers,
supervisors, elected officials, appointed officials, co-workers, or non-
employees with whom County of DeWitt has a business, service, or professional
relationship. “Employee,” for purposes of this policy only, includes any
individual performing work for County of DeWitt, an apprentice, an applicant
for apprenticeship, or an unpaid intern. County of DeWitt has appointed Mike
Trummel as its ethics officer to receive and oversee investigations of
complaints made pursuant to this policy and he is referred to in this policy as
County of DeWitt's "Ethics Officer." He can be contacted by email at
mtrummel@dewittcountyill.com. County of DeWitt reserves the right to change the
Ethics Officer from time to time.
   (B)   Retaliation against an employee who complains about or reports any act
of discrimination, harassment or misconduct in violation of this policy is
prohibited. Retaliation against any employee who participates in an
investigation pursuant to this policy is likewise prohibited. The County of
DeWitt is committed to ensuring and providing a work place free of
discrimination, harassment, sexual misconduct and retaliation. County of DeWitt
will take disciplinary action, up to and including termination, against an
employee who violates this policy.
   (C)   As set forth above, sexual harassment and sexual misconduct are
prohibited. Sexual harassment includes unwelcome sexual advances, requests for
sexual favors, or any other visual, verbal or physical conduct of a sexual
nature when:
      (1)   Submission to or rejection of this conduct explicitly or implicitly
affects a term or condition of individual's employment;
      (2)   Submission to or rejection of the conduct is used as the basis for
an employment decision affecting the harassed employee or;
      (3)   The harassment has the purpose or effect of unreasonably
interfering with the employee's work performance or creating an intimidating,
hostile or offensive work environment because of the persistent, severe or
pervasive nature of the conduct.
   (D)   Sexual harassment can occur in a variety of circumstances, including
but not limited to the following:
      (1)   The employee as well as the harasser may be a woman or a man. The
employee does not have to be of the opposite sex.
      (2)   The harasser can be the employee's supervisor, an agent of the
employer, a supervisor in another area, a co-worker, or a non-employee.
      (3)   The employee does not have to be the person harassed but could be
anyone affected by the offensive conduct.
      (4)   Unlawful sexual harassment may occur without economic injury to or
discharge of the employee.
      (5)   The harasser's conduct must be unwelcome.
   (E)   Each employee must exercise his or her own good judgment to avoid
engaging in conduct that may be perceived by others as sexual harassment or
harassment based on any status protected by law. The following are
illustrations of actions that County of DeWitt deems inappropriate and in
violation of our policy:
      (1)   Unwanted sexual advances.
      (2)   Offering employment benefits in exchange for sexual favors.
      (3)   Retaliating or threatening retaliation after a negative response to
a sexual advance or after an employee has made or threatened to make a
harassment complaint.
      (4)   Visual conduct such as leering, making sexual gestures, displaying
sexually suggestive objects or pictures, cartoons, calendars or posters.
      (5)   Verbal conduct such as making derogatory comments, using epithets
or slurs, making sexually explicit jokes or suggestive comments about a
person's body or dress.
      (6)   Written or electronic communications of a sexual nature or
containing statements or images which may be offensive to individuals in a
particular protected group, such as racial or ethnic stereotypes or stereotypes
about disabled individuals.
      (7)   Physical conduct such as unwanted touching, assaulting, impeding or
blocking movements.
   (F)   Sexual misconduct is strictly prohibited by County of DeWitt and can
include any inappropriate and/or illegal conduct of a sexual nature including,
but not limited to, sexual abuse, sexual exploitation, sexual intimidation,
rape, sexual assault, or ANY sexual contact or sexual communications with a
minor (including, but not limited to, conduct or communications which are
written, electronic, verbal, visual, virtual or physical).
(Res. 2019-05, passed 12-19-2019)
§ 38.346 RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Supervisors. Each supervisor shall be responsible for ensuring
compliance with this policy, including the following:
      (1)   Monitoring the workplace environment for signs of discrimination,
harassment or sexual misconduct;
      (2)   Immediately notifying law enforcement where there is reasonable
belief that the observed or complained of conduct violates the criminal laws of
the State of Illinois.
      (3)   Immediately notifying the Department of Children and Family
Services (DCFS) Hotline (1-800-25-ABUSE or 1-800-252-2873) if the observed or
complained of conduct involves the abuse of a minor.
      (4)   Immediately stopping any observed acts of discrimination,
harassment or sexual misconduct and taking appropriate steps to intervene,
whether or not the involved employees are within his/her line of supervision;
      (5)   Immediately reporting any complaint of harassment, discrimination
or sexual misconduct to the State's Attorney or to the Ethics Officer, and:
      (6)   Taking immediate action to limit the work contact between the
individuals when there has been a complaint of discrimination, harassment or
sexual misconduct, pending investigation.
   (B)   Employees. 
      (1)   Each employee is responsible for assisting in the prevention of
discrimination, harassment and sexual misconduct through the following acts;
         (a)   Refraining from participation in, or encouragement of, actions
that could be perceived as discrimination, harassment or sexual misconduct;
         (b)   Immediately reporting any violations of this policy to a
supervisor, the Ethics Officer, or the State's Attorney and law enforcement (if
appropriate under the circumstances) and/or DCFS (if appropriate under the
circumstances); Employees are obligated to report violations of this policy as
soon as they occur. An employee should not wait until the conduct becomes
unbearable before reporting the prohibited conduct. All employees are obligated
to report instances of prohibited conduct even if the conduct is merely
observed and directed toward another individual and even if the other person
does not appear to be bothered or offended by the conduct. All employees are
obligated to report instances of prohibited conduct regardless of the identity
of the alleged offender (e.g. man, woman, supervisor, elected official, co-
worker, volunteer, vendor, member of public).
         (c)   Encouraging any employee who confides that he/she is the victim
of conduct in violation of this policy to report these acts to a supervisor.
      (2)   Failure to take action to stop known discrimination, harassment or
sexual misconduct may be grounds for discipline.
      (3)   There is a clear line most cases between a mutual attraction and a
consensual exchange and unwelcome behavior or pressure for an intimate
relationship. A friendly interaction between two persons who are receptive to
one another is not considered unwelcome or harassment. Employees are free to
form social relationships of their own choosing. However, when one employee is
pursuing or forcing a relationship upon another who does not like or want it,
regardless of friendly intentions, the behavior is unwelcome sexual behavior.
An employee confronted with these actions is encouraged to inform the harasser
that such behavior is offensive and must stop. You should assume that sexual
comments are unwelcome unless you have clear unequivocal indications to the
contrary. In other words, another person does not have to tell you to stop for
your conduct to be harassment and unwelcome. Sexual communications and sexual
contact with a minor are ALWAYS prohibited.
      (4)   If you are advised by another person that your behavior is
offensive, you must immediately stop the behavior, regardless of whether you
agree with the person's perceptions of your intentions.
      (5)   The County of DeWitt does not consider conduct in violation of this
policy to be within the course and scope of employment and does not sanction
such conduct on the part of any employee, including supervisory and management
employees.
(Res. 2019-05, passed 12-19-2019)
§ 38.347 APPLICABLE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The County of DeWitt takes allegations of discrimination, harassment
and sexual misconduct very seriously. It will actively investigate all
complaints.
   (B)   It is helpful for the employee to directly inform the offending
individual that the conduct is unwelcome and must stop. The employee should use
the County of DeWitt's complaint procedure to advise the County of DeWitt of
any perceived violation of this policy as soon as it occurs.
      (1)   Bringing a complaint. 
         (a)   Any employee of County of DeWitt, who believes that there has
been a violation of this policy may bring the matter to the attention of County
of DeWitt in one of the following ways:
            1.   Advising his or her supervisor or the Ethics Officer for
County of DeWitt; or
            2.   Advising the offending employee's supervisor, the County
State's Attorney or the County Clerk in the event that the alleged harasser is
the State's Attorney.
         (b)   If the complaint involves someone in the employee's direct line
of command, then the employee should go directly to the State's Attorney or the
Ethics Officer.
         (c)   The complaint should be presented as promptly as possible after
the alleged violation of this policy occurs.
         (d)   County of DeWitt will take steps to ensure that complaints made
are kept confidential to
the extent permissible under the law. Individuals who are involved in an
investigation under this policy are required to keep the matter confidential to
the fullest extent permitted under the law.
      (2)   Resolution of a complaint. Promptly after a complaint is submitted,
the County of DeWitt will undertake such investigation, corrective and
preventive actions as are appropriate. In general, the procedure in resolving
any complaints can (but will not necessarily) include any of the following
items:
         (a)   A meeting between the employee making the complaint and an
individual designated by County of DeWitt to investigate such complaints.
Important data to be provided by the complaining employee includes the
following:
            1.   A description of the specific offensive conduct;
            2.   Identification of all person(s) who engaged in the conduct;
            3.   The location where the conduct occurred;
            4.   The time when the conduct occurred;
            5.   Whether there were any witnesses to the conduct;
            6.   Whether conduct of a similar nature has occurred on prior
occasions;
            7.   Whether there are any documents which would support the
complaining employee's allegations;
            8.   What impact the conduct had on the complaining employee;
         (b)   While not required, County of DeWitt encourages anyone who makes
a complaint under this policy to provide a written statement setting forth the
above details and attaching any pertinent records.
         (c)   After a complaint is submitted by the employee, the alleged
offending individual should be contacted by a designated representative of
County of DeWitt. The alleged offending individual should be advised of the
charges brought against him or her, and may be provided with a copy of the
written statement of complaint made by the complaining employee (if
applicable). The alleged offending individual should have an opportunity to
fully explain his or her side of the circumstances, and may also submit a
written statement, if desired.
         (d)   After the alleged offending individual is interviewed, any
witnesses identified by either the complaining employee or the alleged
offending individual may be interviewed separately.
         (e)   Once this investigation is completed, County of DeWitt will take
such action as is appropriate based upon the information obtained in the
investigation. In the event that County of DeWitt finds merit in the charges
made by the complaining employee, disciplinary action will be taken against the
offending employee. This disciplinary action may, but need not necessarily,
include:
            1.   Verbal or written reprimand;
            2.   Placing the offending employee on a corrective action plan for
a period of time to be identified;
            3.   Delay in pay increases or promotions;
            4.   Suspending the offending employee from work without pay;
            5.   Demotion;
            6.   Immediate termination.
         (f)   Upon completion of the investigation, County of DeWitt will
advise the complaining employee of the results of the investigation, including
action taken, if any, against the offending individual.
   (C)   When investigating alleged violations of this policy, County of DeWitt
looks at the whole record including, but not limited to, the nature of the
allegations, the context in which the alleged incidents occurred, and the
statements of the parties and witnesses. A determination on the allegations is
made from the facts on a case-by-case basis.
(Res. 2019-05, passed 12-19-2019)
§ 38.348 NON-RETALIATION.
   Under no circumstances will there be any retaliation against any employee
making a complaint of discrimination, harassment or sexual misconduct. Any act
of retaliation by any party directed against a complaining employee, an accused
employee, witnesses, or participants in the process will be treated as a
separate and distinct complaint and will be similarly investigated. Complaints
of retaliation should be addressed to the Ethics Officer, State's Attorney or
County Clerk. Illinois law provides protections to whistleblowers as set forth
in the Whistleblower Act, ILCS Ch. 740, Act 174, § 15 and the Illinois Human
Rights Act, ILCS Ch. 775, Act 5, § 6-101.
(Res. 2019-05, passed 12-19-2019)
§ 38.349 DISCIPLINE, FINES AND PENALTIES.
   In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant
to County of DeWitt's policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee
handbooks and/or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this
policy or the Prohibition on Sexual Harassment contained In ILCS Ch. 5, Act
430, § 5-65, may be subject to a fine of up to $5,000 per offense, applicable
discipline or discharge by County of DeWitt and any applicable fines and
penalties established pursuant to local ordinance, state law or federal law.
Each violation may constitute a separate offense. Any discipline imposed by
County of DeWitt shall be separate and distinct from any penalty imposed by an
ethics commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a court of law or a
state or Federal agency.
(Res. 2019-05, passed 12-19-2019)
§ 38.350 FALSE REPORTS PROHIBITED.
   It is a violation of this policy for an employee to knowingly make a false
report of discrimination, harassment, sexual misconduct, or retaliation. An
employee who is found to have knowingly made a false report is subject to
disciplinary action, as set forth in § 38.347(B)(2)(e), above.
(Res. 2019-05, passed 12-19-2019)
§ 38.351 ADDITIONAL RESOURCES.
   If you have any questions concerning the County of DeWitt's policies on this
matter, please see your supervisor, the Ethics Officer, or the State's
Attorney. Further information may also be obtained from the Illinois Department
of Human Rights, 312-814-6200 or the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
(EEOC), 800-669-4000. Confidential reports of harassment or discrimination may
also be filed with these state agencies. For matters involving the abuse of
minors the Illinois Department of Children and Family Services (DCFS) may be
contacted by dialing 800-25-ABUSE.
(Res. 2019-05, passed 12-19-2019)
IDENTITY PROTECTION POLICY
§ 38.365 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No county employee or official shall publicly post or display in any
manner an individual's social security number.
   (B)   No county employee or official shall print an individual's social
security number on any card or device, including but not limited to devices
that use RFID, magnetic strips, or bar codes.
   (C)   No individual shall be required to transmit his or her social security
number over the internet, unless the connection is secure or the social
security number is encrypted.
   (D)   No county employee or official shall print an individual's social
security number on any materials that are mailed to the individual, through the
U.S. Postal Service, any private mail service, electronic mail, or any similar
method of delivery, unless state or federal law requires the social security
number to be on the document to be mailed. Notwithstanding any provision in
this section to the contrary, social security numbers may be included in
applications and forms sent by mail, including, but not limited to, any
material mailed in connection with the administration of the Unemployment
Insurance Act, any material mailed in connection with any tax administered by
the Department of Revenue, and documents sent as part of an application or
enrollment process or to establish, amend, or terminate an account, contract,
or policy or to confirm the accuracy of the social security number. A social
security number that may permissibly be mailed under this section may not be
printed, in whole or in part, on a postcard or other mailer that does not
require an envelope or be visible on an envelope without the envelope having
been opened.
   (E)   No county employee or official shall collect, use, or disclose a
social security number from an individual, unless: (i) required to do so under
state or federal law, rules, or regulations, or the collection, use, or
disclosure of the social security number is otherwise necessary for the
performance of that agency's duties and responsibilities; (ii) the need and
purpose for the social security number is documented before collection of the
social security number; and (iii) the social security number collected is
relevant to the documented need and purpose.
   (F)   No county employee or official shall require an individual to use his
or her social security number to access an internet website.
   (G)   No county employee or official shall use a social security number for
any purpose other than the purpose for which it was collected.
(Res. 2017-14A, passed 12-21-2017)
§ 38.366 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The disclosure of social security numbers to agents, employees,
contractors, or subcontractors of a governmental entity or disclosure by a
governmental entity to another governmental entity or its agents, employees,
contractors, or subcontractors if disclosure is necessary in order for the
entity to perform its duties and responsibilities; and, if disclosing to a
contractor or subcontractor, prior to such disclosure, the governmental entity
must first receive from the contractor or subcontractor a copy of the
contractor's or subcontractor's policy that sets forth how the requirements
imposed under the Identity Protection Act on a governmental entity to protect
an individual's social security number will be achieved.
   (B)   The disclosure of social security numbers pursuant to a court order,
warrant, or subpoena.
   (C)   The collection, use, or disclosure of social security numbers in order
to ensure the safety of: state and local government employees; persons
committed to correctional facilities, local jails, and other law-enforcement
facilities or retention centers; wards of the state; youth in care as defined
in § 4d of the Children and Family Services Act, and all persons working in or
visiting a state or local government agency facility.
   (D)   The collection, use, or disclosure of social security numbers for
internal verification or administrative purposes.
   (E)   The collection or use of social security numbers to investigate or
prevent fraud, to conduct background checks, to collect a debt, to obtain a
credit report from a consumer reporting agency under the federal Fair Credit
Reporting Act, to undertake any permissible purpose that is enumerated under
the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, or to locate a missing person, a lost
relative, or a person who is due a benefit, such as a pension benefit or an
unclaimed property benefit.
   (F)   This policy does not apply to the collection, use, or disclosure of a
social security number as required by state or federal law, rule, or
regulation.
   (G)   This policy does not apply to documents that are recorded with a
county recorder or required to be open to the public under any state or federal
law, rule, or regulation, applicable case law, Supreme Court Rule, or the
Constitution of the State of Illinois. Notwithstanding this section, county
recorders must comply with § 35 of the Identity Protection Act.
   (H)   This policy does not apply to the judiciary or the Circuit Clerk
pursuant to ILCS Ch. 5, Act 179, § 40.
(Res. 2017-14A, passed 12-21-2017)
§ 38.367 FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT AND OTHER REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act to the contrary, employees
and office holders must comply with the provisions of any other state law with
respect to allowing the public inspection and copying of information or
documents containing all or any portion of an individual's social security
number. A person or state or local government agency must redact social
security numbers from the information or documents before allowing the public
inspection or copying of the information or documents.
(Res. 2017-14A, passed 12-21-2017)
§ 38.368 TRAINING.
   (A)   All current employees and officials of the county shall be trained to
protect the confidentiality of social security numbers. Training shall include
the proper handling of information that contains social security numbers from
the time of collection through the destruction of the information. Any new
employees or officials shall receive training before accessing data containing
social security numbers.
   (B)   Only employees who are required to use or handle information or
documents that contain social security numbers shall have access to such
information or documents.
   (C)   Social security numbers requested from an individual shall be provided
in a manner that makes the social security number easily redacted if required
to be released as part of a public records request.
   (D)   When collecting a social security number or upon request by the
individual, a statement of the purpose or purposes for which the agency is
collecting and using the social security number must be provided.
   (E)   All county offices must advise its employees of the existence of the
policy and make a copy of the policy available to each of its employees, and
must also make its privacy policy available to any member of the public, upon
request. If a local government agency amends its privacy policy, then that
agency must file a written copy of the amended policy with the appropriate
entity and must also advise its employees of the existence of the amended
policy and make a copy of the amended policy available to each of its
employees.
(Res. 2017-14A, passed 12-21-2017)
§ 38.369 CONFLICT.
   In the event of a conflict with the Illinois Identity Protection Act and
this section state law shall control.
(Res. 2017-14A, passed 12-21-2017)
NURSING MOTHER POLICY
§ 38.380 NURSING MOTHER POLICY.
   (A)   The County of DeWitt shall make reasonable efforts to provide a
private room or other location, in close proximity to the work area, other than
a toilet stall, for employees, who are nursing mothers, to express milk in
privacy.
   (B)   The County of DeWitt shall provide to employees, who are nursing
mothers, reasonable break time to express milk for their nursing infant child
each time the employee has the need to express milk for one year after the
child's birth. The break time may run concurrently with any break time already
provided to the employee. The County of DeWitt may not reduce an employee's
compensation for time used for the purpose of expressing milk or nursing a
baby, The County of DeWitt shall provide reasonable break time as needed by the
employee unless to do so would create an undue hardship as defined by item (j)
of Section 2-102 of the Illinois Human Rights Act.
(Res. 2019-03, passed 3-21-2019)
NURSING MOTHER POLICY
§ 38.380 NURSING MOTHER POLICY.
   (A)   The County of DeWitt shall make reasonable efforts to provide a
private room or other location, in close proximity to the work area, other than
a toilet stall, for employees, who are nursing mothers, to express milk in
privacy.
   (B)   The County of DeWitt shall provide to employees, who are nursing
mothers, reasonable break time to express milk for their nursing infant child
each time the employee has the need to express milk for one year after the
child's birth. The break time may run concurrently with any break time already
provided to the employee. The County of DeWitt may not reduce an employee's
compensation for time used for the purpose of expressing milk or nursing a
baby, The County of DeWitt shall provide reasonable break time as needed by the
employee unless to do so would create an undue hardship as defined by item (j)
of Section 2-102 of the Illinois Human Rights Act.
(Res. 2019-03, passed 3-21-2019)
MULTI-FACTOR AUTHENTICATION  POLICY AND PROCEDURES
§ 38.385 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Two-factor authentication (2FA) is required to be used by all DeWitt
County users with access to DeWitt County data and systems or with access to
other people’s sensitive or restrictive information in those systems. At DeWitt
County, 2FA is achieved through the use of a special one-time password (OTP)
authentication generated from an approved hardware token (dongle) or via the
Duo Mobile application in addition to your login credentials.
   (B)   Violation of approved policies and procedures could result in
termination.
(Res. 23-16, passed 12-21-2023)
§ 38.386 POLICY.
   (A)   When authenticating using 2FA all users must use the generated OTPs
from their approved hardware token (dongle) or via approval through the Duo
Mobile application in addition to their login credential.
   (B)   Only approved and registered hardware tokens (dongles) or the Duo
Mobile application may be used for OTP generation.
   (C)   Lost, stolen or damaged devices must be reported immediately to the
direct supervisor or County Administrator.
   (D)   Devices must be properly secured, not shared.
   (E)   Users are expected not to leave their OTP devices unattended in public
places.
   (F)   Users should not mark their hardware dongle with any identifying
information such as name, password, or any reference to DeWitt County systems.
   (G)   Computers will automatically lock the screen after five minutes of
inactivity. This step is essential to enhance the security of our systems and
protect sensitive information. This setting should never be changed by any
employee.
(Res. 23-16, passed 12-21-2023)
§ 38.387 PROCEDURE/PROCESSES.
   (A)   Users are expected to return their hardware tokens (dongle) to DeWitt
County Administrator when they terminate their affiliation with DeWitt County
or no longer have access to any of the systems that require two-factor
authentication.
   (B)   Users must take reasonable care for the hardware token (dongle) which
is assigned to them. Reasonable care includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Protecting from water/moisture. Dongles are not water resistant.
      (2)   Protecting from loss or theft.
   (C)   Users will be assigned a specific type of hardware dongle that plugs
into the USB port of a device. It is critical that these dongles are not left
unattended in the device or stored with the device. Failure to properly store
and use the dongle can result in discipline and/or termination.
   (D)   Should a user fail to have the dongle on their person during working
hours, they may be sent home for the day unpaid.
      (1)   If the dongle is lost, the user may remain off the schedule until a
new dongle can be procured for them.
   (E)   The form for receiving a dongle can be found in Appendix A, §
15.
(Res. 23-16, passed 12-21-2023)
§ 38.388 USE.
   (A)   Users with a DeWitt County-issued cell phone or receive a cell phone
stipend, or users who use their personal cell phone, may utilize the Duo Mobile
application for 2FA.
      (1)   Once the user has logged in to their computer or laptop using their
county credentials, they will receive a notification from the Duo Mobile
application.
      (2)   The user will either approve or deny the login attempt based on
validity of the login attempt.
      (3)   If approved, the system will continue the login procedure.
   (B)   Users without a DeWitt County-issued cell phone or a cell phone
stipend, or users who use their personal cell phone, may utilize a registered
hardware token (dongle).
      (1)   The user will place the dongle into their USB port before they
login.
      (2)   Once the user has logged in to their computer or laptop using their
DeWitt County credentials, an OTP screen will appear.
      (3)   The user should place their cursor in the password box and press
down on the dongle while it is plugged in.
      (4)   A system-generated password will appear, and the user can then
approve the login.
(Res. 23-16, passed 12-21-2023)
APPENDIX A: FORMS
Section
   
1.   Written warning form
   
2.   Order of suspension form
   
3.   Physical examination record
   
4.   Pre-employment physical examination record
   
5.   Receipt for FMLA forms
   
6.   FMLA mandatory employee notice
   
7.   Employee FMLA leave request
   
8.   FMLA medical certification (employee)
   
9.   FMLA medical certification (family member)
   
10.   Company response (eligibility)
   
11.   Company response (designation)
   
12.   Employee acknowledgment form regarding communications systems
   
13.   Employee acknowledgment form regarding photographic identification cards
   
14.   Disclaimer
   
15.   Two-Factor Authentication Dongle
 
Editor's Note: These forms are available in a printer-friendly PDF file. Please
click HERE.
§ 1. WRITTEN WARNING FORM.
 
DeWITT COUNTY BOARD
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b9b9d11161c5f1e66906616396b37cc86e1dd3af/IMAGES/0-0-0-1241.jpg]
Courthouse • Clinton, IL 61727
WRITTEN WARNING
 
TO:                                                                                               DATE:                                                      
 
You are hereby notified that you are being issued a written warning for violation of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .
 
On the                   day of                          ,                  , you did                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .
 
You are also hereby notified that a copy of this written warning will be placed in your personnel file. Any future violation(s) of any guidelines, policies, procedures, rules or regulations will result in further disciplinary action.
DO NOT REPEAT THIS ACTION.
 
                                                                                                            
Department Head/Elected Official
 
I,                                                                    , hereby acknowledge the receipt of this written warning.
                                                                                                         
Signature/date
Ref. 10.1.2
(11-06-90)
 
 
§ 2. ORDER OF SUSPENSION FORM.
 
DeWITT COUNTY BOARD
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b9b9d11161c5f1e66906616396b37cc86e1dd3af/IMAGES/0-0-0-1241.jpg]
Courthouse • Clinton, IL 61727
ORDER OF SUSPENSION
 
TO:                                                                                                                                                                     
 
You are hereby notified that you are suspended from duty, as a                                          for the County of DeWitt, DeWitt County  (Department)  , for a period of                             hours/days.
 
The suspension shall be effective on                                                                                                                        .
 
The suspension shall be for the following reason(s):                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .
 
This suspension shall be                                  pay.
 
This order of suspension was served on you this                        day of                                ,               , at            AM/PM.
 
 
                                                                                                 
Department Head/Elected Official
 
 
I,                                                                , hereby acknowledge receipt of the foregoing order of suspension, and recognize that the order of suspension is with/without pay.
 
 
                                                                                                 
Employee
 
Ref. 10.1.3
(11-06-90)
 
 
§ 3. PHYSICAL EXAMINATION RECORD.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b9b9d11161c5f1e66906616396b37cc86e1dd3af/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1245.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b9b9d11161c5f1e66906616396b37cc86e1dd3af/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1247.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b9b9d11161c5f1e66906616396b37cc86e1dd3af/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1251.jpg]
 
§ 4. PRE-EMPLOYMENT PHYSICAL EXAMINATION RECORD.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b9b9d11161c5f1e66906616396b37cc86e1dd3af/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1249.jpg]
 
§ 5. RECEIPT FOR FMLA FORMS.
 
I,                                                          , hereby acknowledge receipt of the FMLA forms. The forms included are the mandatory employee notice, employee FMLA leave request and the FMLA medical certification. I understand that the forms must be completed in full by myself and my medical provider, and must be submitted in a
timely manner.
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                           
(Employee Signature)                                       (Date)
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                           
(Supervisor or Designee Signature)                              (Date)
 
 
§ 6. FMLA MANDATORY EMPLOYEE NOTICE.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b9b9d11161c5f1e66906616396b37cc86e1dd3af/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1253.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b9b9d11161c5f1e66906616396b37cc86e1dd3af/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1255.jpg]
 
§ 7. EMPLOYEE FMLA LEAVE REQUEST.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b9b9d11161c5f1e66906616396b37cc86e1dd3af/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1257.jpg]
 
§ 8. FMLA MEDICAL CERTIFICATION (EMPLOYEE).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b9b9d11161c5f1e66906616396b37cc86e1dd3af/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1259.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b9b9d11161c5f1e66906616396b37cc86e1dd3af/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1261.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b9b9d11161c5f1e66906616396b37cc86e1dd3af/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1263.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b9b9d11161c5f1e66906616396b37cc86e1dd3af/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1265.jpg]
 
§ 9. FMLA MEDICAL CERTIFICATION (FAMILY MEMBER).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b9b9d11161c5f1e66906616396b37cc86e1dd3af/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1269.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b9b9d11161c5f1e66906616396b37cc86e1dd3af/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1271.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b9b9d11161c5f1e66906616396b37cc86e1dd3af/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1273.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b9b9d11161c5f1e66906616396b37cc86e1dd3af/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1275.jpg]
 
§ 10. COMPANY RESPONSE (ELIGIBILITY).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b9b9d11161c5f1e66906616396b37cc86e1dd3af/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1267.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b9b9d11161c5f1e66906616396b37cc86e1dd3af/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1279.jpg]
 
§ 11. COMPANY RESPONSE (DESIGNATION).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b9b9d11161c5f1e66906616396b37cc86e1dd3af/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1281.jpg]
 
§ 12. EMPLOYEE ACKNOWLEDGMENT FORM REGARDING COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS.
 
I,                                                  , acknowledge having received a copy of the DeWitt County policy and procedures regarding communications systems.
 
I understand that I maintain responsibility for adhering to these policies and for the security and safety of the “password” issued to me in order to access the communications system. Any infraction of these policies shall subject me to discipline
appropriate under the circumstances.
 
Furthermore, I recognize that it is my responsibility to report to the County Board administrative offices any problems that I may experience in accessing systems and/or any suspected violations of the policies insuring systems use and safety.
 
DATE:                                                                                                                              
 
SIGNATURE:                                                                                                                    
 
Printed:                                                                                                                             
 
(To be kept by the Employee)
 
 
 
 
 
I,                                                      , acknowledge having received a copy of the DeWitt County policy and procedures regarding communications systems.
 
I understand that I maintain responsibility for adhering to these policies and for the security and safety of the “password” issued to me in order to access the communications system. Any infraction of these policies shall subject me to discipline
appropriate under the circumstances.
 
Furthermore, I recognize that it is my responsibility to report to the County Board administrative offices any problems that I may experience in accessing systems and/or any suspected violations of the policies insuring systems use and safety.
 
DATE:                                                                                                                              
 
SIGNATURE:                                                                                                                    
 
Printed:                                                                                                                             
 
(To be kept by the Employer)
 
 
 
§ 13. EMPLOYEE ACKNOWLEDGMENT FORM REGARDING PHOTOGRAPHIC IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
 
I,                                                            , acknowledge having received a copy of the policy regarding photographic identification cards.
 
I understand that I maintain responsibility for adhering to this policy. Any infraction of this policy shall subject me to discipline appropriate under the circumstances.
 
Furthermore, I recognize that it is my responsibility to report to the Executive Administrative Assistant to the County Board or the Chief Deputy of the DeWitt County Sheriff’s Department any lost or stolen card.
 
DATE:                                                                                                                              
 
SIGNATURE:                                                                                                                    
 
Printed:                                                                                                                             
 
(To be kept by the Employee)
 
 
 
 
 
I,                                                           , acknowledge having received a copy of the policy regarding photographic identification cards.
 
I understand that I maintain responsibility for adhering to this policy. Any infraction of this policy shall subject me to discipline appropriate under the circumstances.
 
Furthermore, I recognize that it is my responsibility to report to the Executive Administrative Assistant to the County Board or the Chief Deputy of the DeWitt County Sheriff’s Department any lost or stolen card.
 
DATE:                                                                 
 
SIGNATURE:                                                                                                                    
 
Printed:                                                                                                                             
 
(To be kept by Employer)
 
 
§ 14. DISCLAIMER.
 
It is the intent of this handbook to provide employees with the county’s personnel policies. Employees are encouraged to familiarize themselves with the contents of this handbook concerning employment with the county.
 
The personnel handbook is not to be construed as an employment contract and is not intended to create contractual obligations of any kind. Neither the employee nor the county is bound to continue the employment relationship if either chooses, at its will, to end the relationship at any time.
 
I have received this personnel policy handbook.
 
                                                                                                                                                          
Date                           Employee
 
 
(Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
§ 15. TWO-FACTOR AUTHENTICATION DONGLE.
 
   Issued to:                                                            Date Issued:                                                         
   I acknowledge receipt of one (1) dongle.
   I understand that this dongle is only for my use and agree that it will not be transferred to, nor allowed to be used by, any other person.
   I understand that I am liable for the replacement cost if the dongle is lost or damaged. I will notify DeWitt County immediately if the dongle is lost, or any damage happens to
the dongle which renders it inoperable. I will not mark or deface the dongle in any way.
   This dongle is the property of DeWitt County, and will be returned on or before resignation, termination or at the request of DeWitt County.
   Received by:                                                                 Date Received:                                                   
   Date Surrendered:                              Reason:                                                                                           
 
 
(Res. 23-16, passed 12-21-2023)
CHAPTER 39: ADMINISTRATIVE TICKETS
Section
   
39.01   Code Enforcement Officer
§ 39.01 CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Zoning Code Administrator of the county is hereby designated as the Code
Enforcement Officer of all county ordinances and resolutions enacted pursuant
to ILCS Ch. 55, Act 5, §§ 5-12001 et seq., and ILCS Ch. 55, Act 5, §§ 13001 et
seq., including the authority to issue administrative citations of violations
of the ordinances and resolutions.
(Ord. 03-002, passed 6-19-2003)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
51.   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
      
52.   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
      
53.   WATER SUPPLIES
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Interpretation, purpose and conflict
   
50.03   Severability
Collection and Disposal
   
50.15   Disposal
   
50.16   Preparation for collection
   
50.17   Storage and containers
   
50.18   Removal of garbage before vacating premises
   
50.19   Commercial rubbish
   
50.20   Infected refuse
   
50.21   Flammable, explosive, toxic, dangerous and hazardous materials
   
50.22   Miscellaneous rubbish
   
50.23   Garbage and refuse vehicles
   
50.24   Performance standards for scavengers
Administration and Enforcement
   
50.35   Inspection by Health Department
   
50.36   Permission required to dump or place garbage or refuse on public or
private property; exception
   
50.37   Abatement of declared nuisance
   
50.38   Nuisances
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animal Control, see
Ch. 90
   Nuisances; Health and Safety, see
Ch. 91
   Solid Waste Management, see
Ch. 51
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. The residue resulting from the burning of wood, paper, coal, coke,
charcoal or other combustible materials.
   BOARD OF HEALTH. The Board of Health of the DeWitt Piatt Bi-County Health
Department, or its authorized representatives.
   COMMERCIAL RUBBISH. Trade waste such as packing, paper, cardboard,
excelsior, straw, crates, boxes, acids, oils, chemicals, grease, tires, vehicle
and aircraft parts, discarded merchandise, glass, plastics, metals, crocks,
garbage and other waste products materials including construction waste such as
earth, plaster, metals, wood, plastics, tile, brick, concrete, terra cotta,
slate, marble and mineral.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places and removing or making inaccessible
materials, which may serve as their food, by poisoning, spraying, trapping or
by any other recognized and legal method of pest control.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible animal, vegetable or mineral waste products
resulting from the handling, storage, preparation, cooking or consumption of
any food or any matter that may decompose and become offensive or dangerous to
health.
   HAZARDOUS. Any condition, act or thing causing risk or danger to the public.
   JUNK. Old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, rubber
debris, waste; junked, dismantled or wrecked automobiles, or parts thereof;
iron, steel and other old or scrap ferrous or non-ferrous material.
   NUISANCE. An accumulation of garbage, refuse or rubbish which is allowed to
remain unlawfully in a location detectable by sight and/or smell by a person
upon any adjacent property or public; or any act, condition or thing causing
harm, danger, injury or resulting in the creation of a hazardous situation.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, club, partnership, corporation, trustee,
association, organization, public entity or private entity.
   PREMISES. Any public and/or private real property, either improved or
vacant, inhabited or uninhabited, including buildings and structures, vehicles,
watercrafts and/or parts thereof.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and non-putrescible solid wastes, including garbage,
rubbish, commercial rubbish, ashes, street cleaning, tree wastes, dead animals,
abandoned vehicles, discarded household appliances/white goods and junk.
   RODENTS. Rats and mice.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid waste consisting of both combustible and non-
combustible wastes such as paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, wood,
glass, bedding, crockery, sticks, chips, leaves, straw, bottles, metals,
plastics, furniture, wearing apparel, excelsior, rags, discarded household
articles, materials or substances discarded as worthless and similar materials.
   SCAVENGER. Any person, company or corporation who is engaged in the
business, either public or private, of collecting and disposing of garbage,
refuse, ashes, rubbish and the like.
   STORAGE SITES. Any public and/or private real property, either improved or
vacant, including the buildings or structures thereon, vehicles, watercrafts or
parts thereof, upon or in which refuse, garbage, rubbish, commercial rubbish or
ashes are stored for collection prior to final disposal.
   VERMIN. Roaches, bugs, fleas, lice or similar noxious animals of small size.
   WEEDS. Naturally occurring, non-cultivated growth or wild vegetation,
exclusive of trees and other wood-stemmed plants, which harbor rodents,
reptiles and/or vermin to an extent which causes risk to public health.
(Prior Code, § 50.01) (Ord. passed 2-11-1980; Motion carried 3-11-1980; Ord.
passed 5-13-1999)
§ 50.02 INTERPRETATION, PURPOSE AND CONFLICT.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the minimum
requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety, morals, comfort
and general welfare.
   (B)   It is not intended by this chapter to interfere with, abrogate, annul
or repeal any ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation heretofore adopted
which does not conflict with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.100) (Ord. passed 5-13-1999)
§ 50.03 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any section, clause, provision or application of this chapter be
declared by any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the declaration
shall not affect the validity of any other section, clause, provision or
application hereof other than the part or application so declared to be
invalid.
(Prior Code, § 50.101) (Ord. passed 5-13-1999)
COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
§ 50.15 DISPOSAL.
   All refuse shall be disposed of at a site licensed and approved by the State
Environmental Protection Agency. The location and methods of operation for
final disposal or refuse shall conform with the requirements of the State
Refuse Disposal Law and all county ordinances, copies of which shall be on file
at the County Clerk’s office. No person shall deposit or permit to remain in
any waterway, drainage ditch or confined waters within the county any garbage,
rubbish, junk, ashes, refuse or similar matter that may attract or harbor
flies, rodents, vermin or mosquitoes; create offensive odors or unsightliness;
or otherwise create a health hazard or results in the existence of a nuisance
condition.
(Prior Code, § 50.14) (Ord. passed 5-13-1999)
§ 50.16 PREPARATION FOR COLLECTION.
   No person shall place out for collection garbage, ashes, commercial rubbish
or miscellaneous rubbish, unless properly prepared for collection. Garbage and
animal wastes shall be placed in nuisance-free containers for collection.
Garbage and refuse shall be removed regularly from the premises. No person
shall keep garbage, ashes or miscellaneous rubbish on the premises, except in
containers as stipulated within this chapter, or remove the covers from garbage
or rubbish containers, except as herein authorized, or to place or disturb the
containers so as their contents might be spilled or scattered.
(Prior Code, § 50.15) (Ord. passed 2-11-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.17 STORAGE AND CONTAINERS.
   The owner, or his or her agent, of any house, building, flat, apartment or
tenement where persons reside, board, lodge or where food for human consumption
is prepared or served shall provide and maintain in good repair containers for
garbage collection. Garbage shall be drained and stored in durable, fire-
resistant containers with close-fitting lids. Ashes containing hot embers shall
not be placed in a container for collection. Rubbish shall be stored in durable
containers with close fitting covers; except that, bulky rubbish such as trees,
weeds and large cardboard boxes may be bundled as not to be scattered by winds.
(Prior Code, § 50.16) (Ord. passed 2-11-1980; Ord. passed 5-13-1999; Ord.
passed 9-22-1999) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.18 REMOVAL OF GARBAGE BEFORE VACATING PREMISES.
   Any person(s) occupying or controlling any lot, building or structure shall
cause to be removed therefrom all garbage and refuse, before vacating the
premises.
(Prior Code, § 50.17) (Ord. passed 2-11-1980; Ord. passed 5-13-1999) Penalty,
see §
50.99
§ 50.19 COMMERCIAL RUBBISH.
   It shall be the responsibility of the owner to dispose of any commercial
rubbish upon any property owned by him or her. The collection and disposal
shall be performed by a scavenger or by the occupant, tenant, owner or his or
her agent or firm producing and/or possessing the commercial rubbish, with
enclosed equipment in a manner not inconsistent with the provisions of this
chapter. When cardboard box waste or equivalent is hauled, enclosed equipment
is not required, but the waste must be contained while being transported.
(Prior Code, § 50.18) (Ord. passed 2-11-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.20 INFECTED REFUSE.
   No person shall place or cause to be placed in containers provided for
garbage or refuse any bedding, clothing or other articles contaminated by
infectious or contagious disease. All refuse shall be burned on the premises
and the ashes shall be placed in water-tight containers for disposal in a
manner prescribed by the applicable state statute.
(Prior Code, § 50.19) (Ord. passed 2-11-1980; Motion carried 3-11-1980; Ord.
passed 5-13-1999)
§ 50.21 FLAMMABLE, EXPLOSIVE, TOXIC, DANGEROUS AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place, or cause to be placed, in containers
provided for the collection of garbage or refuse the materials as motion
picture film or similar material, celluloid, rags or paper products saturated
with flammable substances or other flammable, explosive or toxic materials.
      (2)   All materials shall be placed in separate containers and/or be
disposed of as directed by the Board of Health and in accordance with this
chapter and state statute.
   (B)   All dangerous and hazardous materials or substances such as poisons,
acids, caustics, pesticides, infested materials, explosives and solid wastes
resulting from industrial processes shall not be mixed and/or stored with or
collected with refuse as defined in this chapter. The dangerous and hazardous
materials or substances shall be stored, collected and disposed of in the
manner prescribed by the applicable state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 50.20) (Ord. passed 2-11-1980; Ord. passed 5-13-1999; Ord.
passed 9-22-1999)
§ 50.22 MISCELLANEOUS RUBBISH.
   Miscellaneous rubbish shall be placed in suitable containers for collection
by the occupant, tenant, owner or his or her agent of any house, building,
flat, apartment or tenement where persons reside, board or lodge.
(Prior Code, § 50.21) (Ord. passed 2-11-1980)
§ 50.23 GARBAGE AND REFUSE VEHICLES.
   No person(s) shall convey or cause to be conveyed within the county any
garbage or refuse that is putrid or offensive or constitutes a health hazard,
except in a tightly closed container or specially construed conveyance approved
by the Board of Health and in accordance with the ordinances of the county.
This section shall be constructed to include farmer-operated manure spreaders
used in the disposition of animal wastes for fertilizing.
(Prior Code, § 50.22) (Ord. passed 2-11-1980; Ord. passed 5-13-1999)
§ 50.24 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR SCAVENGERS.
   (A)   All equipment used for the collection of garbage, refuse, junk,
rubbish and commercial rubbish by scavengers must be of the packer type, or
another design suitable for the sanitary and healthful transportation of the
refuse and garbage as the Board of Health may approve.
   (B)   Equipment shall be maintained so that it is operating properly and
safely so that no garbage, refuse or rubbish can blow or fall off the truck,
and shall be painted and lettered legibly with the name and address of the firm
or person owning and/or operating the unit.
   (C)   Any truck owner or operator shall be responsible for immediately
picking up any garbage, refuse or rubbish that is allowed to blow from or drop
off any garbage truck operation in the county from any roadway, public or
private. Failure to comply with this section shall be a violation of this
chapter.
   (D)   When a complaint is received regarding noise created by the operation
of refused collection vehicles and/or crews, the Board of Health may, upon
review of the complaint, set the hours of collection so that the noise does not
unduly disturb the neighborhood.
   (E)   Overnight parking of loaded garbage collection vehicles on public or
private property is prohibited.
   (F)   Scavengers must comply with all ordinances and laws of the county.
(Prior Code, § 50.23) (Ord. passed 2-11-1980; Motion carried 3-11-1980; Ord.
passed 5-13-1999; Ord. passed 9-22-1999) Penalty, see §
50.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 50.35 INSPECTION BY HEALTH DEPARTMENT.
   The Board of Health is hereby authorized and directed to make inspections as
are necessary to determine satisfactory compliance with this chapter. The
authorized representative of the Board of Health, after proper identification
and statement of the reasons for the visit, shall be permitted by the owner or
occupants of the property to have access to the property at any reasonable time
for the purpose of making an inspection to determine compliance with the
requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.34) (Ord. passed 5-13-1999)
§ 50.36 PERMISSION REQUIRED TO DUMP OR PLACE GARBAGE OR REFUSE ON PUBLIC OR
PRIVATE PROPERTY; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   For public health and safety, it shall be unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation, to dump or place any garbage, refuse, miscellaneous refuse
or commercial rubbish, as herein defined in §
50.01, or other offensive substances within the county, on any public or
private property, without first securing permission from the County Board of
Health, or the Environmental Protection Agency, as required. Those areas
properly operated by any government or private owner under a State
Environmental Protection Agency permit are exempt from this chapter, when same
is permitted and operated according to the solid waste rules and regulations of
that agency.
   (B)   If permission is granted as aforesaid to any person, firm or
corporation, the dumping of any of the above described materials, as defined in
this chapter, shall be accomplished in accordance with the rules, conditions
and regulations as set forth by this chapter. The Board of Health reserves the
right to cancel and withdraw the permission at any time upon 24-hours’ written
notice directed to the person heretofore granted permission.
(Prior Code, § 50.35) (Ord. passed 2-11-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.37 ABATEMENT OF DECLARED NUISANCE.
   When an authorized representative of the Health Department discovers a
violation of §
50.38, the person, firm or corporation causing or allowing the violation shall
be notified by the DeWitt-Piatt Bi-County Health Department by means of a
written notice of inspection and request to abate the violation sent to the
last known address. The notice and request shall describe the specific
conditions found, the correction necessary to bring about compliance, and a
specific and reasonable period of time for the correction. Each condition
specified in the notification shall constitute a separate violation of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.36) (Ord. passed 2-11-1980; Motion carried 3-11-1980; Ord.
passed 5-13-1999)
§ 50.38 NUISANCES.
   (A)   Generally. No person shall create or cause the continuance of a
nuisance in the county. All nuisances, as defined hereafter and as recognized
by the common law and the statutes of the state, may be treated as such and
proceeded against in accordance with the recognized remedies for abating and
enjoining nuisances and/or in accordance with §
50.99.
   (B)   Declared nuisances prejudicial to the public health. It is hereby
declared that the following are nuisances, but are not inclusive of all
conditions or acts which may give rise to the creation or continuance of a
nuisance:
      (1)   To allow the carcasses of dead animals or any part of decaying
animal matter to remain not buried, destroyed or collected, within 24 hours
after death or dismemberment;
      (2)   To throw or deposit any offal, refuse, junk or the carcass of any
dead animal, in a watercourse, lake, pond, spring, well or common sewer, street
or public roadway;
      (3)   To corrupt or render unwholesome or impure the water of any spring,
river, stream, pond or lake;
      (4)   To allow a diseased animal to run at large;
      (5)   To allow excessive amounts of manure, refuse, human, noxious or
offensive waste to accumulate. This excludes the normal storage of manure on a
farm;
      (6)   To allow any discharge of raw or insufficiently treated human waste
or sewage onto the surface of the ground or into any watercourse, spring, hike,
pond or well through either direct or indirect means;
      (7)   To allow any waste from commercial or industrial facilities to
accumulate or to become foul, offensive or to otherwise become a health hazard;
      (8)   To allow any wells or cisterns to remain open;
      (9)   To allow an abandoned refrigerator to remain on any premises that
does not have the doors, locks or latches removed;
      (10)   To allow any building, mobile home, shed, fence or other human-
made structure to exist which is dangerous to public health because of its
condition, construction or lack of proper repair and which may cause or aid in
the spread of disease or injury to the health of the occupants and/or
neighboring structures or occupants;
      (11)   To allow the spillage, scatter or loss of refuse from any vehicle
that is used to transport garbage or refuse;
      (12)   Any place harboring vermin and/or rodents;
      (13)   To cause or to allow any ashes, garbage, junk, refuse, rubbish,
vermin or weeds to be stored, handled, disposed or to collect or accumulate
upon any public or private property contrary to the provisions of this chapter,
and to do or to cause or to allow the occurrence of continuance of any other
act or things contrary to the provisions of this chapter; and
      (14)   All other acts, practices, conduct, business, occupants, callings,
trades, uses of property and all other things detrimental to the health of the
inhabitants of the county.
(Prior Code, § 50.41) (Ord. passed 5-13-1999)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The remedies provided for in this chapter to abate and prosecute
nuisances and violations hereof shall not be deemed to be mutually exclusive,
and election to pursue shall not be deemed to be mutually exclusive, and
election to pursue one remedy shall not bar the simultaneous pursuit of any
other remedy.
(Prior Code, § 50.98)
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who maintains a nuisance, as defined
herein, or who fails to comply with an order of the Board of Health issued
under the provisions hereof, or who violates any provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject, upon conviction, to a
fine of not less than $25 and not more than $500. Each day that the nuisance,
condition or violation occurs or continues shall be deemed to be a separate
offense. In addition, the person, firm or corporation may be enjoined from
continuing the violation. The State’s Attorney of the county shall prosecute
all violations of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.99)
(Ord. passed 2-11-1980; Ord. passed 5-13-1999; Ord. passed 9-22-1999)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Fees
   
51.03   Reports required
   
51.04   Cessation of operation
Cross-reference:
   Garbage and Refuse, see
Ch. 50
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SOLID WASTE. Demolition materials, food and industrial processing waste,
garden trash, land clearing wastes, mixed refuse, non-combustible refuse,
rubbish and trash, as those terms are defined in §§ 3.01 through 3.06 of the
Solid Waste Disposal District Act (ILCS Ch. 70, Act 3105, §§ 3.01 through
3.06).
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility in which solid waste is
disposed.
(Prior Code, § 52.01) (Ord. passed 7-13-1989)
§ 51.02 FEES.
   (A)   Host benefit fee. CLI shall pay the county a host benefit fee for each
ton of nonhazardous solid waste deposited at the expanded landfill for
disposal. The host benefit fee may be used by the county for such benefits,
services and facilities as are customarily and legally permitted to be funded
from the county’s General Fund.
      (1)   Calculation of host benefit fee.
         (a)   Commencing January 1, 2015, CLI shall pay to the county a host
benefit fee of $2.54 for each ton of waste deposited at the expanded landfill
for disposal.
         (b)   The host benefit fee shall be adjusted annually on January 1,
beginning on January 1, 2031. The adjustment shall be calculated based on the
increase in the United States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics,
U.S. City Average, Consumer Price Index (“CPI”) for all urban consumers. The
host benefit fee shall not be decreased regardless of whether the CPI is
negative for a given adjustment period. The first adjustment will be for the
period from January 1, 2030 to December 31, 2030. The amount of any adjustment
shall not exceed 2.3%.
         (c)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, commencing January 1, 2015, CLI
shall only be required to pay to the county a host benefit fee of $1 for each
ton of Coal Combustion Residuals (“CCR”), including but not limited to flyash,
bottom ash, boiler slag, and flue gas desulfurization materials, deposited at
the expanded landfill, with no COLA adjustment.
      (2)   Payment. The host benefit fee shall be payable to the county on a
quarterly basis on or before the 20th day following the end of each calendar
quarter.
      (3)   Payment form. Each host benefit fee payment shall be accompanied by
a form prescribed by the county and stating the weight of waste deposited by
the expanded landfill for disposal during the payment period and providing such
other information as may be necessary for the county to assure compliance with
this agreement. The form shall be signed by CLI. Any host benefit fee payment
not received by the county by the above deadline shall be subject to a late
charge of 1% of the total host benefit fee due.
      (4)   Audit. The county shall be entitled to audit the scale tickets of
CLI once per calendar year to verify the amount of the host benefit fee
payments.
   (B)   Rail unloading facility. The county supports and approves the
permitting, development, construction and operation of the rail unloading
facility by CLI, and the county agrees and acknowledges that operating a rail
unloading facility at Clinton Landfill No. 3 does not require local siting
approval from the DeWitt County Board under ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 39.2 of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Act. In addition to the host benefit fee
payable under paragraph 11 of the host county agreement, CLI shall pay the
county a rail unloading facility fee of $1.25 for each ton of waste unloaded at
the rail unloading facility for deposit into Clinton Landfill No. 3. The
payments shall be paid on or before the twentieth day following the end of each
calendar quarter and shall be subject to the same documentation and
verification requirements of the host benefit fee. Pursuant to the siting
conditions, the county hereby gives its written permission that waste unloaded
at the rail unloading facility shall not be included in calculating whether CLI
has exceeded an average of 3,000 tons per day of waste deposited in Clinton
Landfill No. 3. In order to facilitate the development of the rail unloading
facility, the county hereby authorizes and approves the construction of a
railroad crossing by CLI across County Highway No. 1, and upon the request of
CLI, the county shall provide a resolution evidencing such authorization and
approval to the Illinois Commerce Commission.
(Ord. passed 5-21-2015)
§ 51.03 REPORTS REQUIRED.
   All operators of solid waste disposal facilities shall make quarterly
reports and fee payments based upon the quantity of solid waste reported in the
quarterly solid waste summary. This quarterly report is due on September 15,
December 15, March 15 and June 15 of each calendar year and shall be in the
form prescribed by the State Environmental Protection Agency under the
provisions of the State Solid Waste Management Act.
(Prior Code, § 52.03) (Ord. passed 7-13-1989)
§ 51.04 CESSATION OF OPERATION.
   The operator of each solid waste disposal facility shall notify the county
no later than January 15 of its intent to cease receipt of solid waste during
the calendar year, the notification to include the estimated date upon which
the facility will cease operation.
(Prior Code, § 52.04) (Ord. passed 7-13-1989)
CHAPTER 52: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Definitions
   
52.002   Adoption by reference
   
52.003   Sanitary disposal of waste; one system per property
   
52.004   Conformity of construction with purpose of code
Required Area
   
52.015   Minimum lot size
   
52.016   Requirements for subdividing property
Permit Regulations
   
52.030   Permit required
   
52.031   Application for permits shall be made to the Board of Health
   
52.032   Permit specifications
   
52.033   Application forms for permits; information required
   
52.034   Refusal to grant permit
   
52.035   Time limit for action on applications
   
52.036   Validity
   
52.037   Permit fee
Registrations
   
52.050   Private sewage contractors license
   
52.051   Sewage pumping contractors license
   
52.052   Portable sanitation business
Compliance and Performance
   
52.065   Installation and service
   
52.066   Absorption capacity determined by soil investigation
   
52.067   Minimum performance standards
Subsurface Seepage Fields
   
52.080   Installation as component part
Surface Discharging Systems
   
52.095   National Pollution Discharge Elimination System permit
Alternative Systems
   
52.110   Alternative systems
Perimeter Drains (Curtain Drains)
   
52.125   Presence of high water table or limiting layer
   
52.126   Vertical separation
   
52.127   Horizontal separation
   
52.128   Variance
Administration and Enforcement
   
52.140   Enforcement
   
52.141   Notice of violation
   
52.142   Hearing before Health Authority
   
52.143   Hearing before Board of Health
   
52.144   Conflicting provisions
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 DEFINITIONS.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. The legally designated Administrator of the
DeWitt-Piatt Bi-County Health Department and shall include those persons
designated by the Administrator to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   BOARD OF HEALTH. The DeWitt-Piatt County Board of Health or its authorized
representative(s).
   DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Waste water derived principally from dwellings, business or
office buildings, institutions, food service establishments, and similar
facilities,
   HEALTH AUTHORITY. The person or persons who have been designated by the
Board of Health to administer the affairs of the Health Department.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The DeWitt-Piatt Bi-County Health Department, an agency
of the DeWitt-Piatt County Board of Health.
   HOME OWNER. A person who holds legal title to a residential structure which
is to be used or is used for his or her personal single family residence.
   HOME OWNER INSTALLED SYSTEM. A private sewage disposal system installed by a
home owner for his or her personal single family residence.
   HUMAN WASTES. Undigested food and by-products of metabolism which are passed
out of the body.
   MODIFY. Any change in the design or components of a private sewage disposal
system requiring a permit herein defined.
   PERMIT. A written permit issued by the Board of Health or its authorized
representative permitting the construction of an individual sewage disposal
system under this chapter.
   PERSON. An individual, group of individuals, association, trust,
partnership, corporation, person doing business under an assumed name, the
State of Illinois, or any Department thereof, or any other entity
   POPULATION EQUIVALENT. An average waste loading equivalent to that amount of
waste produced by one person which is defined as 100 gallons per day or that
amount of waste containing 0.17 BOD.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any sewage handling or treatment facility
receiving domestic sewage for less than 15 people or population equivalent and
having a ground surface discharge or any sewage handling or treatment facility
receiving domestic sewage and having no ground surface discharge.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM INSTALLATION CONTRACTOR. Any person
constructing, installing, maintaining, repairing, or modifying private sewage
disposal systems.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM PUMPING CONTRACTOR. Any person who cleans or
pumps waste from a private sewage disposal system or hauls or disposes of the
removed waste.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The person in whose name legal title to the real estate is
recorded.
   SEPTIC TANK MANUFACTURERS AND/OR AERATION UNIT DEALERS. A person who
manufacturers, sells, offers for sale, or delivers septic tanks or aeration
units in or into DeWitt County.
   SOIL CLASSIFIER. One of the following:
      (1)   A certified soil classifier of the Illinois Soil Classifiers
Association (ISCA) or a certified soil classifier with the American Registry of
Certified Professionals in Agronomy, Crops, and soils (ARCPACS).
      (2)   A person who is a full member or associate member of the Illinois
Soil Classifiers Association (ISCA), provided that direct supervision is
provided to this person by a ISCA or ARCPACS certified soil classifier who
accompanies the person on at least 25% of the soil investigations and reviews
and signs all of that person's soil investigation reports.
   WASTE. Either human waste or domestic sewage, or both.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2015)
§ 52.002 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   This chapter shall be interpreted and enforced in accordance with provisions
set forth in the unabridged form of the State of Illinois, Department of Public
Health, "Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code" and any subsequent
amendments or revisions thereto, three certified copies of which shall be on
file in the office of the DeWitt County Clerk.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2015)
§ 52.003 SANITARY DISPOSAL OF WASTE; ONE SYSTEM PER PROPERTY.
   Property owners of all buildings and places where people live, work, or
assemble shall provide for the sanitary disposal of all human waste and
domestic sewage. It is prohibited for the use of a private sewage disposal
system to serve more than one property. Such facilities shall be constructed in
accordance with the provisions of these regulations.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2015)
§ 52.004 CONFORMITY OF CONSTRUCTION WITH PURPOSE OF CODE.
   All facilities for the disposal of human wastes and domestic sewage shall be
so constructed, maintained and operated that there is:
   (A)   No possible access to this system by sources of sickness or of disease
(i.e. vectors of disease, persons, domestic pets, and the like).
   (B)   No unlawful pollution of any stream or any body of water or drainage
way.
   (C)   Isolation as to provide for the protection of wells or other sources
of water from possible contamination.
   (D)   No nuisance due to odor or unsightly appearance.
   (E)   No unlawful discharge of liquid or solid waste to the surface of the
ground.
   (F)   No contamination of drinking water.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2015)
REQUIRED AREA
§ 52.015 MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
   Minimum lot size for a residential structure served with a public water
system but requiring a private sewage disposal system shall be 20,000 square
feet in area excluding easements, and where a private water supply and a
private sewage disposal system is proposed, shall be one acre in size excluding
easements. Lots platted and on record before the effective date of the
ordinance, will be given special consideration when applying for a permit. A
smaller area may be requested if a community sewage collection system is
proposed. A variance may be granted if it is impractical or impossible to
comply with the code and an approved system can be installed and no potential
health hazards will exist. However, the area shall be large enough to provide
for a second private sewage disposal system of a size and type equivalent to
the minimum system approved for the lot.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2015)
§ 52.016 REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBDIVIDING PROPERTY.
   The Health Department shall require persons who subdivide property to
furnish information concerning soil absorption capacities, or require changes
in a proposed subdivision plat, to reasonably ascertain that each lot of said
proposed subdivision will be able to support the installation and subsequent
use of an approved private sewage disposal system as defined in the Illinois
Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2015)
PERMIT REGULATIONS
§ 52.030 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, alter, or extend
individual sewage disposal systems within DeWitt County unless he or she holds
a valid permit issued by the Health Department stating the name of such person
for whom the specific construction, alteration or extension is proposed.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2015)
§ 52.031 APPLICATION FOR PERMITS SHALL BE MADE TO THE BOARD OF HEALTH.
   All applications for permits granted under the provisions of this chapter
shall be made to the Board of Health or its duly authorized representative.
Sufficient data shall be included to allow review and to determine whether the
proposed application for permit meets the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2015)
§ 52.032 PERMIT SPECIFICATIONS.
   A permit shall only be issued to an state licensed private sewage disposal
system installation contractor or a homeowner installing his or her own sewage
disposal system.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2015)
§ 52.033 APPLICATION FORMS FOR PERMITS; INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   Permit application forms provided by the Health Department shall be
completed and signed by each applicant and shall include the following:
   (A)   Name and address of the applicant and location of the proposed site of
construction, alteration, or extension as proposed.
   (B)   Complete plan of the proposed disposal facility attesting to its
compliance with the minimum standards of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2015)
§ 52.034 REFUSAL TO GRANT PERMIT.
   The Board of Health or its authorized representative may refuse to grant a
permit for the construction of a private sewage disposal system where sanitary
sewage systems are available. A sewage system shall be deemed available when a
sanitary sewer line is in place within any street, alley, right of way or
easement that adjoins or abuts the premises for which the permit is requested,
or when the improvement to be served is located within a reasonable distance of
a sanitary sewer to which a connection is practical and is permitted by the
controlling authority for the sewer. A reasonable distance for the purpose of
this provision shall be deemed to be not greater than 300 feet for a single
family residence or non-residential property with a sewage flow of less than
1,500 gallons per day and 1,000 feet for any non-residential property with a
design flow great than 1,500 gallons per day.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2015)
§ 52.035 TIME LIMIT FOR ACTION ON APPLICATIONS.
   The Board of Health or its authorized representative shall act upon or
respond to all applications within ten days of receipt thereof.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2015)
§ 52.036 VALIDITY.
   Said permit to construct is valid for a period of one year from date of
issuance. If construction has not started within this period, the permit is
void.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2015)
§ 52.037 PERMIT FEE.
   There shall be a fee for the construction or renovation of a private sewage
disposal system which is to be paid to the Health Department upon application.
The fee will be returned to the applicant if a permit is denied. The fee has
been established by the Board of Health and is reviewed annually.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2015)
REGISTRATIONS
§ 52.050 PRIVATE SEWAGE CONTRACTORS LICENSE.
   All private sewage contractors must possess a valid license and fulfill all
requirements for annual renewal set forth by the Illinois Department of Public
Health. If at any time a license becomes "inactive" that contractor shall not
install any systems serving properties within the Department's jurisdictional
boundaries.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2015)
§ 52.051 SEWAGE PUMPING CONTRACTORS LICENSE.
   All sewage pumping contractors must possess a valid license and fulfill all
requirements for annual renewal set forth by the Illinois Department of Public
Health. If at any time a license becomes "inactive" that contractor shall not
service any systems within the Department's jurisdictional boundaries.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2015)
§ 52.052 PORTABLE SANITATION BUSINESS.
   In accordance with the requirements set forth by the Illinois Department of
Public Health in Section 905.135 of the Private Sewage Code any person(s)
operating within the department's jurisdiction who sells, rents, leases,
transports or maintains portable toilets or hand washing units shall be
licensed as a portable sanitation business. Approval must be received from the
Illinois Department of Public Health.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2015)
COMPLIANCE AND PERFORMANCE
§ 52.065 INSTALLATION AND SERVICE.
   All private sewage disposal systems within the limits of DeWitt County,
shall be installed, modified or serviced by an individual with a valid Illinois
Private Sewage Disposal System Installation Contractor's License; and all
systems shall be pumped, cleaned, and the contents thereof disposed of by
individuals with a valid Illinois Private Sewage Disposal System Pumping
Contractor's License; provided, however, that a homeowner may install and/or
service a private sewage disposal system which serves his or her own personal
single family residence.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2015)
§ 52.066 ABSORPTION CAPACITY DETERMINED BY SOIL INVESTIGATION.
   The absorption capacity for the design of a subsurface seepage field shall
be determined by a soil investigation. A soil investigation shall be performed
by a soil classifier or a licensed professional engineer. A copy of the soil
investigation must be submitted to the Health Department along with the permit
application.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2015)
§ 52.067 MINIMUM PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   The minimum performance standards for private sewage disposal system
installation contractors and for a property owner who installs a private sewage
disposal system for his or her property shall be the same as the minimum
performance standards promulgated under authority granted in the current
Illinois Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2015)
SUBSURFACE SEEPAGE FIELDS
§ 52.080 INSTALLATION AS COMPONENT PART.
   Where a subsurface seepage field is installed as a component part of a
private sewage disposal system, the seepage field shall be in accordance with
the Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2015)
SURFACE DISCHARGING SYSTEMS
§ 52.095 NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT.
   (A)   In accordance with the Private Sewage Disposal Code, all surface
discharging private sewage disposal systems that enter the waters of the State
of Illinois must receive a general National Pollution Discharge Elimination
System (NPDES) Permit issued by the Illinois Environmental Health Protection
Agency (IEPA) or United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA).
   (B)   A representative of the Health Department will conduct an evaluation
of the site prior to the NPDES application submission to determine if a
conventional system or aeration system is feasible.
   (C)   Systems permitted under the general NPDES permit shall be in
compliance with the terms and conditions of the permit.
   (D)   A permit application along with the NPDES permit must be submitted to
the Health Department prior to installation.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2015)
ALTERNATIVE SYSTEMS
§ 52.110 ALTERNATIVE SYSTEMS.
   Alternative systems or alternative technologies not listed in the Private
Sewage Disposal Code as an approved means of sewage disposal must receive
approval from the Illinois Department of Public Health before a permit is to be
issued by the Health Department.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2015)
PERIMETER DRAINS (CURTAIN DRAINS)
§ 52.125 PRESENCE OF HIGH WATER TABLE OR LIMITING LAYER.
   If the soil survey indicates the presence of a high water table or limiting
layer that is less than two feet of vertical separation from the subsurface
seepage field of a conventional system or less than one foot of vertical
separation from a field used in accordance with an aerobic treatment unit, a
perimeter drain is required.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2015)
§ 52.126 VERTICAL SEPARATION.
   Perimeter drains must extend two feet below the maximum trench depth of the
subsurface seepage system used in accordance with a conventional septic and one
foot for subsurface seepage field used in accordance with an aerobic treatment
unit.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2015)
§ 52.127 HORIZONTAL SEPARATION.
   Perimeter drains must have at least ten foot of horizontal separation from
the subsurface seepage field.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2015)
§ 52.128 VARIANCE.
   (A)   If the terrain or lot size does not allow for the installation of a
curtain drain, the contractor may apply for a variance to be approved by a
representative of the Health Department. A variance shall also be submitted by
the contractor if one of the following conditions exist:
      (1)   Existing field tiles are located within proximity of the system and
assist with lowering the seasonally high water table or limiting layer.
      (2)   Land formations such as elevation changes or bodies of water are
located within the proximity of the system and assist in lowering the
seasonally high water table or limiting layer.
   (B)   If a variance is denied, alternative technology may be required after
approval is granted from the Illinois Department of Public Health.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2015)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.140 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Private sewage disposal systems constructed prior to the effective
date of this chapter shall be updated to comply with the requirements of this
chapter when they require a permit to repair or replace that system or if there
is a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Health or its authorized representative is, hereby,
authorized and directed to make such inspections as are necessary to determine
satisfactory compliance with this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of a property to give
the Board of Health or its authorized representative free access to the
property at reasonable times for the purpose of making such inspections as are
necessary to determine compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Prior to construction, the contractor or homeowner shall provide the
Health Department with at least a 48-hour notice prior to schedule
installation.
   (E)   Any sewage disposal system which has been installed for any purpose
shall not be covered or placed in operation until the installation shall have
been inspected and written approval of the system shall have been issued by the
Health Department.
   (F)   The authorized representative may make inspections during the course
of the construction of any individual sewage disposal system, to insure
compliance with this chapter.
   (G)   If any home owner who installs his or her own private sewage disposal
system shall backfill any portion of the system and/or cover the same with
earth, cinders, gravel, shale, or any other material which will prevent the
same from being readily viewed to determine if the system meets all
requirements of this chapter before receipt of written approval by the Health
Department, the Health Department shall provide ten days' notice in writing to
the homeowner for violating the provision of this chapter, to uncover such
backfilled or covered portions of the said system.
   (H)   If, at the end of the allotted ten days, the home owner has yet to
comply, the permit is automatically invalidated and more stringent enforcement
action may be taken. The Health Authority may elect to have the system
uncovered at the expense of the home owner. Failure of the home owner to pay
such costs within 30 days shall result in execution of a lien against the
property.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2015)
§ 52.141 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever the Health Department determines that a violation of any provision
of this chapter has occurred, the Health Department shall give notice to the
person responsible for such violation. The notice shall:
   (A)   Be in writing;
   (B)   Include a statement of the reasons for issuance of the notice;
   (C)   Allow reasonable time as determined by the Health Department for
performance of any act required;
   (D)   Be served upon the person responsible for the violation(s); provided
that such notice shall have been properly served upon the person responsible
for the violations when a copy thereof has been sent by registered or certified
mail to his or her last known address as furnished to the Health Department or
when he or she has been served with such notice by any other method authorized
by laws of this state;
   (E)   Contain an outline of remedial action which is required to affect
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2015)
§ 52.142 HEARING BEFORE HEALTH AUTHORITY.
   Any person, to whom notice of violation or other order pursuance to this
chapter has been given to aforesaid, may file in the office of the Health
Department a written request for a hearing before the Health Authority. The
Health Authority shall hold a hearing at a time and place designated by him or
her within 30 days from the date on which the request was filed. The petitioner
for the hearing shall be notified of the time and place of the hearing not less
than five days prior to the date on which the hearing is to be held. The Health
Authority shall render a decision with ten days after the date of the hearing
which shall be reduced to writing and placed on file in the office of the
Health Department as a matter of public record. The petitioner from the
decision of the Health Authority may seek relief through a hearing before the
Board of Health.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2015)
§ 52.143 HEARING BEFORE BOARD OF HEALTH.
   Any petitioner aggrieved by the decision of the Health Authority rendered as
the result of a hearing held in accordance with this section may file in the
office of the Health Department a written request for a hearing at a time and
place designated by the Secretary of the Board of Health within 30 days of the
date on which the written request was filed. The petitioner for the hearing
shall be notified of the time and place of the hearing not less than five days
prior to the date on which the hearing is to be held. The Board of Health shall
render a decision within ten days after the date of the hearing which shall be
reduced to writing and placed on file in the office of the Health Department
and a copy thereof shall be served on the petitioner personally or by delivery
to the petitioner by certified mail.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2015)
§ 52.144 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict
with a provision of any zoning, building, fire, safety, or health ordinance, or
code of DeWitt County existing on the effective date of this chapter, the
provision which in the judgment of the Health Authority establishes the higher
standard for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
people shall prevail. In any case where a provision of any other ordinance or
code of DeWitt County existing on the effective date of the ordinance which
established a lower standard for the promotion and protection of the health and
safety of the people, the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to
prevail, and such other ordinances or codes are hereby declared to be repealed
to the extent that they may be found in conflict with this chapter. If any
section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this chapter
should be declared invalid for any reason whatsoever, such decision shall not
affect the remaining portions of this chapter which shall remain in full force
and effect and, to this end, the provisions of this chapter are hereby declared
to be severable.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2015)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined a sum not to exceed $1,000.
   (B)   Each day's violation constitutes a separate offense. The State's
Attorney of DeWitt County may bring such actions in the name of the People of
the State of Illinois or may bring action for an injunction to restrain such
violation or to enjoin the operation of any such establishment causing such
violation.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2015)
CHAPTER 53: WATER SUPPLIES
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Scope
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Adoption of rules by reference
   
53.04   Public water use
   
53.05   Potable water supply required
   
53.06   Surface water supplies
   
53.07   Cisterns
   
53.08   Abandoned wells
Permit Regulations
   
53.20   Permit required
   
53.21   Application for permit
   
53.22   Issuance of permit
   
53.23   Property owner’s responsibility
   
53.24   Water well and/or pump installation contractor’s responsibility
   
53.25   Permit validity
   
53.26   Exceptions
   
53.27   Suspension of permit
Inspections and Analyses
   
53.40   Inspections
   
53.41   Notification for inspection
   
53.42   Inspection of completed work
   
53.43   Disinfection and analysis
   
53.44   Continuing analysis
 
   
53.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Private Sewage Disposal Systems, see
Ch. 52
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 SCOPE.
   (A)   This chapter regulates water supplies, the construction and
modification of water wells, the sealing of abandoned wells and the inspection
of water supplies and their components within the county.
   (B)   The Board of Health of DeWitt-Piatt Bi-County Department of Public
Health has deemed it necessary and desirable to regulate water supplies for
health purposes and ground water protection and, accordingly, has recommended
adoption of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2008)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED WELL. A water or monitoring well which is no longer used to supply
water, or which is in such a state of disrepair that the well or boring has the
potential for transmitting contamination into an aquifer or otherwise threatens
the public health or safety.
   COMMUNITY PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. A public water system which serves at least
15 service connections used by residents, or regularly serves 25 or more
residents for at least 60 days per year.
   HEALTH AUTHORITY. The person or persons designated by the DeWitt-Piatt Bi-
County Board of Health to enforce this chapter.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The DeWitt-Piatt Bi-County Department of Public Health,
including its duly authorized representatives.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT ADMINISTRATOR. The individual selected by the DeWitt-Piatt
County Board of Health to administer and enforce the policies, ordinances,
resolutions and laws of the Board.
   NON-COMMUNITY PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. A public water system which is not a
community water system, and has at least 15 service connections used by non-
residents, or regularly serves 25 or more non-resident individuals daily for at
least 60 days per year.
   POTABLE WATER. Water that is suitable for human consumption and which meets
health standards for drinking water.
   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM. Any supply which provides water for drinking, culinary
and sanitary purposes, and serves an owner-occupied single-family dwelling.
   SEMI-PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM. A water supply which is not a public water
system, yet which serves a segment of the public other than an owner-occupied
single-family dwelling.
   WATER WELL. An excavation that is drilled, cored, bored, washed, driven,
dug, jetted or otherwise constructed when the intended use of the excavation is
for the location, diversion, artificial recharge or acquisition of ground
water, except monitoring wells, but the term does not include an excavation
made for the purpose of obtaining or prospecting for oil, natural gas, minerals
or products of mining or quarrying or for inserting media to re-pressure oil or
natural gas bearing formation or for storing petroleum, natural gas or other
products or for observation or any other purpose in connection with the
development or operation of a gas storage project.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2008)
§ 53.03 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   In addition to those provisions set forth, this chapter shall be interpreted
and enforced in accordance with provision set forth in the following statutes,
rules and regulations of the State Department of Public Health, and any
subsequent amendments or revisions thereto, which publications are incorporated
herein and adopted by reference as part of this chapter:
   (A)   State Water Well Construction Code, 77 I.A.C. 920;
   (B)   State Water Well Pump Installation Code, 77 I.A.C. 925;
   (C)   Public Area Sanitary Practice Code, 77 I.A.C. 895;
   (D)   Drinking Water Systems Code, 77 I.A.C. 900;
   (E)   Surface Water Treatment Code, 77 I.A.C. 930;
   (F)   State Plumbing Code, 77 I.A.C. 890;
   (G)   State Ground Water Protection Act, ILCS Ch. 415, Act 55; and
   (H)   Primary Drinking Water Standards, 35 I.A.C. 611.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2008)
§ 53.04 PUBLIC WATER USE.
   In those locations where a public water supply is reasonably available, that
supply shall be the sole source of water for drinking and culinary purposes. A
public water supply shall be deemed reasonably available when the subject
property is located within 200 feet of the public water supply to which
connection is practical and is permitted by the controlling authority for the
water supply.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2008)
§ 53.05 POTABLE WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
   All premises intended for human habitation or occupancy shall be provided
with a potable water supply. The potable water supply shall not be connected to
non-potable water and shall be protected against backflow and backsiphonage in
accordance with the requirements of the State Plumbing Code. Each potable water
supply shall provide quantities of water that are sufficient for drinking,
culinary and sanitary needs of the dwelling or premises served. A minimum
system pressure of 20 pounds per square inch shall be maintained throughout
each potable water supply.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2008) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.06 SURFACE WATER SUPPLIES.
   All water systems which receive their source of water from ponds, lakes,
streams, rivers or other surface collectors of water shall be designed,
constructed and operated in accordance with the Surface Water Treatment Code.
No surface water shall be utilized as a potable water supply unless the Health
Authority has reviewed and approved the supply and its components.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2008) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.07 CISTERNS.
   Cisterns shall not be used as a potable water supply, except where adequate
ground water resources are not available. Cistern water shall receive treatment
in accordance with the Surface Water Treatment Code. No cistern water shall be
utilized as a potable water supply unless the Health Authority has reviewed and
approved the supply and its components.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2008) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.08 ABANDONED WELLS.
   Wells that are abandoned shall be sealed in a manner prescribed by the
Health Authority and the State Water Well Construction Code. The Health
Authority shall inspect abandoned wells which have been sealed to determine
compliance with this chapter. In questionable cases, the Health Authority shall
make the determination as to whether a water well is considered abandoned,
based upon the definition of an abandoned well and the facts in each particular
case.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2008) Penalty, see §
53.99
PERMIT REGULATIONS
§ 53.20 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No water well shall be constructed or deepened, except in accordance with
this chapter, and it shall be unlawful to proceed with the work unless a permit
has first been obtained from the Health Authority. A non-community public water
supply shall not be operated without first obtaining a permit from the State
Department of Public Health.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2008) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.21 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   All applications for permits under the provision of this chapter will be
made in writing and in a form as prescribed by the Health Authority. The
application will include specifications specific to each proposed water well
and will include a statement as to any restrictions relating to the location,
materials, components or type of water well to be constructed. The application
will also include the location of the proposed well, location of private sewage
disposal systems and/or water wells, both private and public, on adjacent
properties. It will be the responsibility of the applicant to obtain all
necessary data and to design a system which will meet the requirements of this
chapter. The fee to be paid for a permit to construct or deepen a water well
shall be $100.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2008)
§ 53.22 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   Upon submission of the application for permit, including the plans and
specifications of the proposed water well or component thereof, the Health
Authority will review the application prior to issuance of a permit. If the
Department, upon review of the application, finds that the application meets
the requirements of this chapter, and upon payment of the required fee, a
permit will be issued to the applicant.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2008)
§ 53.23 PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to obtain a permit
before any construction or deepening of a water well is begun. Failure of the
property owner to obtain a permit before any construction or deepening of a
water well is begun shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2008)
§ 53.24 WATER WELL AND/OR PUMP INSTALLATION CONTRACTOR’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be the responsibility of the water well contractor to ensure that a
permit has been issued before any construction or deepening of a water well is
begun and to follow the conditions of the permit. Failure of the water well
contractor to ensure the permit has been issued or to violate the conditions of
the permit shall constitute a violation of this chapter. All water wells shall
be constructed in accordance with the State Water Well Construction Code. All
individuals who construct water wells and install well pumps shall be licensed
by the State Department of Public Health in accordance with the Water Well and
Pump Installation Contractor’s License Act, ILCS Ch. 225 Act 345, § 1.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2008)
§ 53.25 PERMIT VALIDITY.
   (A)   A permit to construct or deepen a water well is valid for a period of
12 months from the date of issuance.
   (B)   If construction has not started within this period, the permit is
void. A request for extension of the permit may be made to the Health Authority
if construction will be delayed.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2008)
§ 53.26 EXCEPTIONS.
   A permit to construct or deepen a water well shall not be required by the
Health Authority when the water well does or will serve a community public
water system or function as a monitoring well.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2008)
§ 53.27 SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Upon inspection by the Health Authority, if it is found that any
provisions of this chapter or any permit specifications for a stated property
have been violated, the Health Authority shall notify the installer to make the
specified changes in the work to allow compliance with the provisions of this
chapter and the permit.
   (B)   If the changes are not made within a period of time specified by the
Health Authority, the permit shall be suspended, and it shall be unlawful to
place the water well into operation.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2008) Penalty, see §
53.99
INSPECTIONS AND ANALYSES
§ 53.40 INSPECTIONS.
   The Health Authority shall have the authority to enter any property at any
reasonable time for inspection purposes to determine compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of a
property to allow the Health Authority free access to the property for the
inspection purposes to determine compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2008)
§ 53.41 NOTIFICATION FOR INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Health Authority shall be notified at least two days prior to
commencing the construction or deepening of a water well for which a permit has
been issued.
   (B)   The Health Authority shall also be notified at least two days prior to
sealing of an abandoned water well at which time a date for inspection will be
arranged.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the water well contractor to notify
the Health Authority as required.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2008)
§ 53.42 INSPECTION OF COMPLETED WORK.
   (A)   If the Health Authority, upon inspection of the specified installation
or component thereof, finds that the work meets the provisions of this chapter,
the Health Authority shall approve the work and authorize operation of the
water well.
   (B)   However, compliance with §§
53.43 and
53.44 shall be obtained prior to utilizing the water system for drinking and
culinary purposes.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2008)
§ 53.43 DISINFECTION AND ANALYSIS.
   (A)   All components of a new water well construction and/or modification
shall be thoroughly disinfected with a strong chlorine solution which will
yield a dosage of at least 100 parts per million to the water in the well and
piping system. After purging the water system of any chlorine residual, a water
sample shall be taken and analyzed by a certified laboratory and satisfactory
results, satisfactory bacteriological results, as confirmed by a certified
laboratory, shall be obtained prior to utilizing the water system for drinking
and culinary purposes.
   (B)   A CERTIFIED LABORATORY shall mean a laboratory operated by the State
Department of Public Health or a laboratory given certification approval by the
aforementioned agency for analyzing samples of water for potable use.
   (C)   The copy of the analysis shall be filed with the County Health
Department. The water obtained from a semi-private water supply shall meet the
nitrate/nitrite, chemical and bacteriological requirements of the Primary
Drinking Water Standards (35 I.A.C. 611), and the water obtained from a private
water well shall meet the bacteriological and nitrate/nitrite requirements of
the Primary Drinking Water Standards (35 I.A.C. 611). The water from a private
water system, having surface water as its source, shall meet the nitrate/
nitrite, bacteriological and turbidity requirements of the Primary Drinking
Water Standards (35 I.A.C. 611).
(Ord. passed 9-18-2008)
§ 53.44 CONTINUING ANALYSIS.
   It shall be the duty of every owner of every water well serving a semi-
private water system for more than one residence to have the water therein
bacteriologically analyzed by a certified laboratory as required by the Health
Authority for the protection of public health. The water shall also be
bacteriologically analyzed whenever the water lines are opened up for repair,
replacement or extension of the water distribution system.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2008)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, which violation
constitutes a violation of any rule, regulation, order or determination of the
Department of Public Health of the state, adopted or made by the Department
pursuant to the Act, shall be guilty of a class A misdemeanor and fined not
less than $100 and not to exceed $750. Any other violation of this chapter
shall be deemed a petty offense. Each day’s violation constitutes a separate
offense.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2008)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Imposing costs for violations of the State Vehicle Code and similar
municipal ordinances
§ 70.01 IMPOSING COSTS FOR VIOLATIONS OF THE STATE VEHICLE CODE AND SIMILAR
MUNICIPAL ORDINANCES.
   (A)   (1)   The County Board hereby imposes, pursuant to state law, a fee of
$10 to be added to all fines imposed for violations of the State Vehicle Code,
being ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, or violations of similar provisions committed under
county or municipal ordinances.
      (2)   The County Treasurer shall maintain a separate account for receipt
of the fee. Pursuant to the statutes heretofore mentioned, the proceeds from
the fee shall be used to finance the court system of the county.
   (B)   The County Board here imposes, pursuant to state law, a fee of $30 to
be added to all fines imposed for violation of § 11-501 of the State Vehicle
Code or violation of a similar provision of a county or municipal ordinance.
   (C)   The County Board hereby imposes, pursuant to Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 34,
para. 429.27, under § 5-9-1 of the Unified Code of Corrections, being ILCS Ch.
730, Act 5, the following fees:
      (1)   For a felony: $50;
      (2)   For a class A misdemeanor: $25;
      (3)   For a class B or class C misdemeanor: $15;
      (4)   For a petty offense: $15;
      (5)   For a business offense: $25; and
      (6)   In all civil cases: $5.
   (D)   (1)   For second and subsequent violations of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 §
11-501(j) of the State Vehicle Code or violations of similar provisions
contained in county or municipal ordinances, a fee of $750 shall be collected,
this fee to be placed in the county’s General Fund to be used to finance
education programs related to driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs.
      (2)   The proceeds for all fees are to be used to finance the court
system in the county. The County Treasurer shall maintain a separate account
for the receipt of the fees.
      (3)   Expenditures from the account are to be authorized by the Chief
Circuit Judge of the Sixth Judicial Circuit, the resident Circuit Judge of the
County and the Chairperson of the County Board, as trustees of the Fund.
(Prior Code, § 70.01) (Res. passed 10-29-1981; Res. passed 10-16-1986; Res.
passed 11-11-1993)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Weight limitations
SCHEDULE I. WEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Generally. The weight limit on all county highways that have a
seasonal posting pursuant to division (B) below shall, at all times other than
the seasonally posted period, be in accordance with ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-
111(a), (b), (d) and (e), as it existed immediately prior to the 96th General
Assembly.
(Prior Code, § 70.10)
   (B)   Seasonal weight limit on county highways.
      (1)   The weight limitation on all county highways, except those
specifically excluded hereafter, shall be four tons per axle during those
periods when the County Engineer determines that, by reason of deterioration,
rain, snow or other climate conditions, county highways may be seriously
damaged or destroyed unless the weight limitations are reduced to four tons per
axle.
      (2)   The restricted period shall not exceed 90 calendar days in any one
calendar year.
      (3)   The following county highways, which serve as access to villages
and agricultural-related business in the county or which have been improved in
an effort to withstand the statutory legal loading during the aforementioned
restricted period, shall not be posted:
         (a)   County Highway 1 from Illinois Route 10 to U.S. Route 51;
         (b)   County Highway 4 from Illinois Route 54 to Piatt County line;
         (c)   County Highway 5 from the Macon County line to Illinois Route
10;
         (d)   County Highway 6 Ext. from Waynesville limits to County Highway
17 Ext.;
         (e)   County Highway 7 from Illinois Route 54 to Howard Street in
Kenney;
         (f)   County Highway 9 from County Highway 17 Ext. to U.S. Route 51;
         (g)   County Highway 10 from Wapella Limits to Illinois Route 54;
         (h)   County Highway 11 from County Highway 7 to U.S. Route 51;
         (i)   County Highway 12 from Lane to Illinois Route 10;
         (j)   County Highway 13 from Midland City to Illinois Route 10;
         (k)   County Highway 14 from Illinois Route 10 to Illinois Route 54;
         (l)   County Highway 17 from Illinois Route 10 to County Highway 6
Ext.; and
         (m)   County Highway 22 from U.S. Route 150 to seven-tenths of a mile
north.
      (4)   Exemptions.
         (a)   All firefighting apparatus and equipment for snow and ice
removal operations owned or operated by any governmental body and all vehicles,
equipment and apparatus operating under the jurisdiction and/or direction of
the County Highway Department, any law enforcement agency in the state and/or
county or the County Emergency Services Department shall be exempt from these
limitations; and all vehicles, equipment and apparatus operating to restore
gas, electric, water or sewer services in an emergency due to an unplanned
disruption of service shall be exempt from these limitations.
         (b)   School buses shall be exempt from these limitations.
         (c)   Service vehicles including, but not limited to, milk trucks,
fuel trucks and livestock feed trucks operating at a weight which does not
exceed the empty weight of the vehicle plus 6,000 pounds shall be exempt from
these limitations.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle upon
county highways hereinabove set forth during the restricted period established
by the County Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 70.20)
   (C)   Issuance of permits. Upon application and good cause being shown, the
County Engineer may issue a special permit, at his or her discretion,
authorizing the applicant to operate a vehicle of excessive maximum weight
temporarily upon the highways, upon showing an undue hardship or upon showing
that the vehicles cannot reasonably be dismantled or disassembled.
(Prior Code, § 70.30)
   (D)   Fines. Any person who is convicted of any violation of any provision
of this chapter shall be fined in accordance with ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 16-
104.
(Prior Code, § 70.40)
(Ord. passed 3-9-1982; Ord. passed 1-16-1992; Ord. passed 12-12-2002; Ord.
passed 1-18-2007; Ord. passed 11-19-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Additional fines for traffic violations, see §
70.01
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
91.   NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Animals creating nuisance
Rabies Inoculation; Regulation
   
90.015   Inoculation required; certificate; use of vaccine
   
90.016   Age when animal is to be inoculated
   
90.017   Contracts with veterinarians; issuance of tags; failure to perform
duties
   
90.018   Issuance of rabies vaccination registration certificate and tag upon
inoculation
   
90.019   Fees
   
90.020   Expiration; renewal
   
90.021   Registration required; fee
   
90.022   Disposition of fees; Animal Control Fund
   
90.023   Reports to be submitted
Leash Law; Dogs and Cats
   
90.035   Definitions
   
90.036   Running at large
   
90.037   Confinement of animals in heat
   
90.038   Impounding procedure; fees
   
90.039   Exceptions
   
90.040   Chemical immobilization policy
Dangerous Dogs
   
90.055   Definition
   
90.056   Controlling and keeping dangerous dog
   
90.057   Payment of expenses for seizure of dog and destruction
   
90.058   Guard dog; insurance required
Cats
   
90.070   Collar required
   
90.071   Identification tag required
Administration and Enforcement
   
90.085   Animal Control Administrator
   
90.086   Rules of adoption of animals
   
90.087   Animal Control fee schedule
Dogs
   
90.090   Collar required
   
90.091   Identification tag required
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 ANIMALS CREATING NUISANCE.
   (A)   No person owning, possessing or harboring any dog or cat shall permit
his or her animal to become a nuisance.
   (B)   An animal shall be considered a nuisance if the animal:
      (1)   Substantially damages property other than that of the owners;
      (2)   Causes unsanitary, dangerous or unreasonable offensive conditions;
      (3)   Causes a disturbance by excessive barking, caterwauling or other
noise making; or
      (4)   Interferes with any person or domestic animals while off the
premises of the animal’s owner.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. passed 1-17-1991) Penalty, see §
90.999
RABIES INOCULATION; REGULATION
§ 90.015 INOCULATION REQUIRED; CERTIFICATE; USE OF VACCINE.
   (A)   Every owner of a dog or cat, four months or more of age, shall cause
the animal to be inoculated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian at
intervals of one to three years depending upon vaccine used, pursuant to
Regulation XI of the State Department of Agriculture.
   (B)   Evidence of the rabies inoculation shall be entered on a certificate
in a form approved by the County Board, to be known as a rabies vaccination
registration certificate, and which shall be signed by the licensed
veterinarian administering the vaccine.
   (C)   Rabies vaccine for use on animals shall be sold or distributed only to
and used only by licensed veterinarians.
(Prior Code, § 90.15) (Ord. passed 1-17-1991) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.016 AGE WHEN ANIMAL IS TO BE INOCULATED.
   It shall be the duty of every owner or person in possession and control of
any dog or cat within the county, not exempted from inoculation, to cause the
animal to be inoculated against rabies when the animal becomes four months of
age, or upon acquisition of an uninoculated animal over four months of age.
(Prior Code, § 90.16) (Ord. passed 1-17-1991) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.017 CONTRACTS WITH VETERINARIANS; ISSUANCE OF TAGS; FAILURE TO PERFORM
DUTIES.
   (A)   The Animal Control Administrator may enter into contracts with
veterinarians for the collection of fees, issuance of rabies inoculation
registration certificates and transmittal of fee to the County Treasurer, as
provided in §
90.019.
   (B)   (1)   The Administrator shall issue tags to each veterinarian who has
contracted with the county.
      (2)   If a veterinarian fails to register an inoculated animal, collect
the fees or transmit the fees or duplicates of the certificates to the
Administrator, the Administrator may refuse to issue tags to the veterinarian,
and the veterinarian shall be liable to the county for sums he or she fails to
collect and transmit.
(Prior Code, § 90.17) (Ord. passed 1-17-1991)
§ 90.018 ISSUANCE OF RABIES VACCINATION REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE AND TAG UPON
INOCULATION.
   (A)   Upon inoculation of the dog or cat, the veterinarian shall complete
and issue to the owner or person in possession and control of the animal a
rabies vaccination registration certificate and a tag for each year in which
the vaccine is effective and instruct the owner to register his or her animal
at the County Animal Control office.
   (B)   The veterinarian shall mail or deliver to the County Treasurer or his
or her designated agent prior to or at the end of each calendar month following
inoculation and registration two duplicate copies of each rabies vaccination
registration certificate and the fees collected, as specified in §
90.019.
(Prior Code, § 90.18) (Ord. passed 1-17-1991)
§ 90.019 FEES.
   The veterinarian shall collect from the owner or person in possession and
control of the animal at the time of vaccination the sum of $7 for a one-year
vaccination registration for an altered dog or cat or $17 for an intact dog or
cat and the sum of $18 for a three-year vaccination registration for altered
dog or cat or $48 for an intact dog or cat. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any
failure to register or vaccinate a subject animal within 15 days from the date
that the registration vaccination is due shall result in a fee being assessed
at $15 for one- and/or three-year registration vaccination fees; or, if not
paid within 45 days, a fee of $30 for a one- and/or three-year vaccination
registration. The veterinarian is authorized to retain the sum of $1 for a one-
year vaccination registration and the sum of $2 for a three-year vaccination
registration for collection and bookkeeping services, and shall transmit the
balance to the administration, as provided in §
90.018.
(Prior Code, § 90.19) (Ord. passed 1-17-1991; Ord. passed 11-13-1997; Ord.
passed 6-21-2007)
§ 90.020 EXPIRATION; RENEWAL.
   The dog or cat shall be re-vaccinated and re-registered on or before the
expiration date shown on the certificate, within 12 months or 36 months after
inoculation, depending on the vaccine used.
(Prior Code, § 90.20)
§ 90.021 REGISTRATION REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   Every owner of a dog or cat, four months of age or more, shall cause
the dog or cat to be registered and shall pay a registration fee, as described
in §
90.019.
   (B)   Registration and payment of the registration fee shall be made to the
veterinarian where the dog or cat is required to be vaccinated or the County
Treasurer.
   (C)   Each animal subject to registration under the terms of this chapter
shall be registered annually in the case of a one-year vaccination, and tri-
annually in the case of a three-year vaccination on or before the expiration
date shown on the registration certificate.
(Prior Code, § 90.21) (Ord. passed 1-17-1991)
§ 90.022 DISPOSITION OF FEES; ANIMAL CONTROL FUND.
   The County Treasurer shall place all moneys received for annual registration
fees in an Animal Control Fund for the purpose of paying costs of the animal
control program. One-third of all fees collected shall be retained in the Fund
until the first Monday in March of each calendar year for the purpose of paying
claims for loss of livestock or poultry as set forth in § 19 of the Animal
Control Act, being ILCS Ch. 510, Act 5. The remaining two-thirds shall be used
for paying the cost of stray animal control, impoundment, education on animal
control and rabies, and other costs incurred in carrying out the provisions of
the Act, except as set forth in § 357 of the Animal Control Act, being ILCS Ch.
510, Act 5.
(Prior Code, § 90.22) (Ord. passed 1-17-1991)
§ 90.023 REPORTS TO BE SUBMITTED.
   The Animal Control Administrator shall submit in writing to the County Board
at its regular December meeting a report showing the number of animals
registered, number of animals inoculated against rabies, fees collected, animal
bites investigated, case of rabies and other information as the State
Department of Agriculture shall request; and the Board, upon approval of the
Administrator’s report, shall forward a copy of the same with any amendments
thereto to the Department of Agriculture of the state, which report shall be
the annual report of the County Board provided for in § 21 of the Animal
Control Act, being ILCS Ch. 510, Act 5.
(Prior Code, § 90.23) (Ord. passed 1-17-1991)
LEASH LAW; DOGS AND CATS
§ 90.035 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Include dogs, cats, birds, reptiles, rodents and any other
animal commonly sold for companionship at retail pet store establishments. If
an animal not clearly being a domestic animal as defined in this section is
encountered in the duties of the Animal Control Administrator, the Public
Safety Committee Chairman’s determination as to whether an animal is domestic
or not shall control.
   OWNER. A person having a right or property in a dog or cat or who keeps or
harbors a dog or cat, or who has it in his or her care, or acts as its
custodian, or who knowingly permits a dog or cat to remain on or about any
premises occupied by him or her.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. A dog or cat, means a dog or cat off or outside the
premises of its owner, unless it is controlled as follows:
      (1)   By a line or leash not more than eight feet in length; provided
that, the line or leash is held by a competent person;
      (2)   At “heel” of a competent person;
      (3)   The dog or cat is confined within a vehicle being driven, parked or
stopped; or
      (4)   The dog or cat is not more than 50 feet from a competent person;
provided that, the dog is not annoying any person, trespassing on private
property or in public area where dogs are forbidden.
   SUBDIVISION. Any parcel divided into two or more parts for the purpose of
transfer of ownership for residential building development, including all
public streets, alleys, ways of public service facilities, parks, playgrounds
or other public grounds contained within the area of the entire parcel. A
SUBDIVISION shall include parcels of over five acres subject to the Plat Act of
the county subdivision regulations which are used principally for residential
purposes.
(Prior Code, § 90.35) (Res. 2017-05, passed 5-18-2017)
§ 90.036 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No person shall permit or cause any dog or cat owned by him or her to run at
large within any unincorporated area of the county, which has been subdivided
for residential purposes.
(Prior Code, § 90.36) (Ord. passed 1-17-1991) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.037 CONFINEMENT OF ANIMALS IN HEAT.
   The owner of any female dog or cat in heat shall keep that animal confined
in a manner as to prevent any contact with any male animal.
(Prior Code, § 90.37) (Ord. passed 1-17-1991) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.038 IMPOUNDING PROCEDURE; FEES.
   (A)   Any dog or cat found running at large in violation of this chapter
shall be considered a public health nuisance and shall be apprehended and
impounded. Upon impounding the animal, a complete registry shall be made of the
breed, color, sex, owner and address, if known, and county rabies inoculation
tag numbers, if known.
   (B)   The Animal Control Administrator or his or her authorized agent shall
cause notice of impoundment to be given in writing to the owner, if known, of
the impounded animal. The notice may be served personally or be mailed to the
owner, who shall have seven days after mailing of notice to redeem the animal
subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   The owner must present proof of ownership and of current rabies
inoculation, if the dog or cat is four months or more of age, to the Animal
Control Administrator or his or her agent. If no proof of rabies inoculation is
shown, the owner must have the animal vaccinated within five days after the
animal is removed from the pound and shall furnish to the Animal Control
Administrator proof of the vaccination within two days after the vaccination is
performed. The Animal Control Administrator or his or her agent shall furnish
the owner with written notice setting forth the requirements of division (B)(1)
of this section as well as the provisions of the Animal Control Act, being ILCS
Ch. 510, Act 5.
      (2)   The owner shall pay to release the animal from impoundment or
apprehension, pound and release fees which are hereby fixed at:
         (a)   1.   Reclaim fee (canine): $50;
            2.   Reclaim fee (feline - first offense): $40;
            3.   Reclaim fee (canine/feline - second offense): $75;
            4.   Reclaim fee (canine/feline - third offense): $100;
         (b)   1.   Boarding fee (standard): $15;
            2.   Additional boarding fee for female in head: $10;
         (c)   Rabies vaccination: $25;
         (d)   Registration for each altered or unaltered animal:
            1.   Altered (1 year): $15;
            2.   Unaltered (1 year): $25;
            3.   Altered (3 years): § 38; and
            4.   Unaltered (3 years): $65;
            5.   Registration late fee (each 30 days late): $5; and
         (e)   Microchipping: $15.
   (C)   If an impounded animal is not redeemed by its owner within seven days,
the animal shall be humanely put to death, offered for adoption or otherwise
lawfully disposed of. This section shall not prevent humane societies from
engaging in activities set forth by their charters; provided, they are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter and other existing laws. Any
person purchasing or adopting an impounded animal must have the animal spayed
or neutered as provided in §
90.086 and vaccinated against rabies as same to the Animal Control
Administrator within seven days.
(Prior Code, § 90.38) (Ord. passed 1-17-1991; Ord. passed 5-16-1991; Ord.
passed 11-13-1997; Ord. passed 6-21-2007; Res. passed 12-17-2015; Res. 2016-02,
passed 1-21-2016; Res. 23-11, passed 5-18-2023)
§ 90.039 EXCEPTIONS.
   Provisions of this chapter shall not apply to dogs leading blind persons,
hearing dogs accompanied by their owners; dogs being used for hunting or field
trials, dogs being displayed or performing at dog shows; dogs or cats on the
private property of others with the actual, implied, customary or constructive
consent of the owner of the premises; dogs while on federal, state, municipal
or county roads or highways while going to or coming from a hunt or field trial
or dog show site; bloodhounds used for tracking in conjunction with police
activities, dogs of the canine corps of any law enforcement agency; or dogs for
the military forces of the United States while being used for official
business.
(Prior Code, § 90.39) (Ord. passed 1-17-1991)
§ 90.040 CHEMICAL IMMOBILIZATION POLICY.
   (A)   Generally. In an effort to enforce animal control regulation, provide
public safety, animal welfare and meet public demands, County Animal Control
may use remote tranquilization of unapproachable animals running at large.
      (1)   Because remote chemical capture may result in injury or death to
the animal and pose inherent danger to the Officer or a bystander, these
procedures are not to be implemented until all other methods of capture have
been exhausted.
      (2)   Animal Control will maintain a tranquilizer gun, which may be used
on an animal that cannot be captured by other means if it poses a threat or
danger to the public or is injured or exposed to injury or death if it remains
at large. If the animal is non-domestic, referrals to the appropriate livestock
or wildlife agency should be made.
      (3)   Only specified and trained Animal Control Officers and supervisors
are allowed to use the tranquilizer gun.
      (4)   Law enforcement should be notified and on site prior to the
tranquilizing of any animal.
      (5)   If possible, the Animal Control Administrator will inform a
veterinarian of possible tranquilization, in case medical treatment is needed.
      (6)   Animals, which have been tranquilized, may not be used for
slaughter or human consumption for a minimum of 30 days.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Animal Control Officers will maintain the necessary tranquilizing
equipment in a secure container furnished for that purpose. Accurate records of
use of all drugs must be recorded in a permanent log book.
      (2)   When an animal must be captured and meets the criteria for use of
chemical immobilization, the Animal Control Officer shall notify the dispatcher
and appropriate law enforcement.
      (3)   Law enforcement and backup staff shall be briefed prior to
tranquilizing the animal. Law enforcement and backup staff are to assist in
positioning the animal for delivery of the dart, to visualize the path and
destination of the dart and to maintain visual contact of the animal until
immobilization takes place. If no assistance can be obtained and the animal is
definitely an immediate threat to the public safety, law enforcement should be
contacted to assist in determining the correct course of action.
      (4)   The Animal Control Officer will exercise good judgment and follow
some basic guidelines when using chemical immobilization. He or she must keep
complete documentation pertaining to the procedure, including, but not limited
to, medical observation before, during and after the tranquilization.
         (a)   Every reasonable precaution will be taken in order to maintain
the health and safety of the individuals in the area and the tranquilized
animal.
         (b)   Tranquilization of old, weak, sick or injured animals should be
avoided if at all possible.
         (c)   Dart should be loaded per instructions. All darts discharged
must be recovered. All used disposable darts shall be destroyed and disposed of
in an appropriate medical hazardous waste container.
         (d)   Immediately after capture by chemical immobilization, the animal
may be transported to a veterinarian to ensure stabilization of the animal. If
medical backup is unavailable, the animal must be transported to a safe and
secure area and be monitored by the Animal Control Officer until recovered.
         (e)   Locations should be assessed for hazardous conditions including
water, steep inclines or cliffs, traffic, heavy cover, temperature extremes,
impending darkness, heavy fog and accessibility to transport vehicle.
   (C)   Training protocol.
      (1)   During the training period, Officers receiving training will read
all equipment manuals and other instruction materials provided, and demonstrate
knowledge of policies, procedures, documentation records and dosage
calculations.
      (2)   Having completed training, Officers will qualify monthly for six
months by performing the following skills properly.
         (a)   Accurately rutting within a ten-inch circle on the target from a
distance of at least 30 feet. This must be done successfully two times in a row
within five shots.
         (b)   Properly load and discharge an actual immobilization dart at
least two consecutive times without error or prompting.
      (3)   After successfully completing six consecutive monthly qualifying
activities, the Officer will be tested on the above standards every six months
or sooner if requested by the Animal Control Administrator.
      (4)   The Training Officer will fully document and sign qualifying
records and have them placed into personal files of the Officer being tested.
(Ord. passed - -)
DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 90.055 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any animal that constitutes a physical threat to human beings
or other animals or has a disposition or propensity to attack or bite any
person or other animal without provocation, or which is wild by nature and of a
species which, due to size, vicious nature or other characteristics,
constitutes a danger to human life, physical well-being or property, any animal
which has been known to bite or attack a human being or other domestic animal,
without provocation, one or more times.
(Prior Code, § 90.50) (Ord. passed 1-17-1991)
§ 90.056 CONTROLLING AND KEEPING DANGEROUS DOG.
   (A)   If it is determined by the Animal Control Administrator, his or her
agent, or the Sheriff that an animal is a dangerous animal, that person shall
notify the property owner to immediately and securely confine the dangerous
animal indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen. If the property owner
fails to comply, or if the property owner is not available and it is determined
that the animal is endangering the well-being of others, the animal may be
removed from the property by the Animal Control Administrator, his or her
agent, or the Sheriff, and impounded.
   (B)   Where a dangerous animal has caused serious physical harm or death to
any person or animal, or has escaped and is at large, or causes a threat to any
person or animal, the Animal Control Officer or the Sheriff shall cause the
animal to be immediately seized and impounded, or killed if seizure or
impoundment are not possible without risk of serious physical harm or death to
any person.
   (C)   No person owning or harboring or having the care or custody of a
dangerous dog shall allow or permit the dog to go unconfined on the premises of
the person. Any dangerous dog is unconfined, as the term is used in this
section, if the dog is not securely confined indoors or confined in a securely
enclosed and locked pen or a dog run area upon the premises of the person. The
pen or dog run area must also have either sides six feet high or a secure top.
If the pen or dog run area has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides must
be imbedded into the ground no less than two feet.
   (D)   No person owning or harboring or having the care of a dangerous dog
shall suffer or permit the animal to go beyond the premises of the person
unless the dog is securely muzzled and restrained with a chain having a minimum
tensile strength of 300 pounds and not exceeding three feet in length.
   (E)   No person shall own or harbor any dog for the purpose of dog fighting,
or train to torment, badger, bait or use any dog for the purpose of causing or
encouraging the dog to unprovoked attacks upon human beings or domestic
animals.
   (F)   (1)   Any person owning or harboring or having the care of any
dangerous dog shall maintain a policy of insurance in an amount not less than
$50,000 insuring the person against any claim, loss, damage or injury to
persons, domestic animals or property resulting from the acts, whether
intentional or unintentional, of the dangerous dog.
      (2)   The person shall produce evidence of the insurance upon the request
of a law enforcement agent.
(Prior Code, § 90.51) (Ord. passed 1-17-1991)
§ 90.057 PAYMENT OF EXPENSES FOR SEIZURE OF DOG AND DESTRUCTION.
   (A)   Any vicious dog which attacks a human being or another domestic animal
may be destroyed, and any person found guilty of violating this section shall
pay all expenses, including shelter, food, veterinary expenses for
identification or certification of the breed of the animal or boarding and
veterinary expenses necessitated by the seizure of any dog for the protection
of the public and other expenses as may be required for the destruction of any
dog.
   (B)   The schedule of expenses set out in §
90.038(B)(2) shall be the same expenses paid by the owner when the county holds
a dog for the ten-day rabies observation period after it has been determined
that an unvaccinated dog has attacked another human being or domestic animal.
(Prior Code, § 90.52) (Ord. passed 1-17-1991)
§ 90.058 GUARD DOG; INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   No person shall own, keep or harbor any guard dog, which shall be defined as
a dog trained to attack or kill any human being or domestic animal, unless the
dog is registered with the County Clerk, insured in the amount of $50,000, and
have displayed in a prominent place on his or her premises where the dog is
kept, a sign easily readable by the public using the words “Beware of Guard
Dog”.
(Prior Code, § 90.53) (Ord. passed 1-17-1991) Penalty, see §
90.999
CATS
§ 90.070 COLLAR REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall own, possess, keep, maintain or harbor any cat over
four months of age without providing the cat with a collar to be worn at all
times.
   (B)   Collars shall be a humane break-away type or suitable harness.
(Prior Code, § 90.65) (Ord. passed 1-17-1991) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.071 IDENTIFICATION TAG REQUIRED.
   All cats shall have affixed to their collars or harness an identification
tag stating the owner’s name, current address and telephone number.
(Prior Code, § 90.66) (Ord. passed 1-17-1991) Penalty, see §
90.999
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 90.085 ANIMAL CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Animal Control Administrator shall have the authority to adopt
reasonable rules and regulations to implement the terms of this chapter and the
regulations of the State Department of Agriculture 80 as to effectuate the
intent and purpose of this chapter and the regulations.
   (B)   In addition to those duties enumerated herein, additional authority
and duties may be specified in particular provisions in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 90.80) (Ord. passed 1-17-1991)
§ 90.086 RULES FOR ADOPTION OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   The purpose of these adoption rules is to enable the Animal Control
Administrator or his or her authorized agent to find the best possible homes
for unclaimed animals.
   (B)   Only those persons willing to comply with the rules as set forth
herein and willing to provide loving care for the animals need apply.
      (1)   A waiting period of 24 to 48 hours is required before taking
possession of any animal.
      (2)   No one under the age of 18 may adopt an animal without the written
consent of parents or legal guardian.
      (3)   Any person who rents his or her residence must have the written
permission of the landlord allowing animals on the rental property.
      (4)   No one convicted of cruelty to any animal will be allowed to adopt
an animal from the Animal Control Administrator or his or her authorized agent.
      (5)   If the adopter’s residence is within the county, the home shall be
visited by a representative of the Animal Control Administrator or his or her
authorized agent at least once in the six-month period following adoption.
      (6)   If a dog is adopted, the dog must be secured on a chain or in an
enclosed fence or pen when not with the owner or on the owner’s property. The
dog must be on a leash when walking, running or jogging. The dog may be with
the adopter in a car, van or recreational vehicle without being restrained, but
cannot be in an open truck bed without being properly restrained.
      (7)   If a cat is adopted, it must be kept on a leash when not confined
in the adopter’s residence, and shall not run at large anywhere within the
county.
      (8)   If, at the time of adoption, the animal is less than four months of
age, it shall be vaccinated against rabies within seven days of reaching four
months of age, and re-vaccinated at one year of age. After one year of age, the
animal may be vaccinated with either a three-year or a one-year inoculation, as
determined by a veterinarian.
      (9)   Every adopted animal must be examined by a veterinarian within 48
hours of adoption. Failure to do so will void any guarantee of health.
      (10)   No refund or animal exchanges will be given if the adopted animal
becomes ill or dies unless the animal has been examined by a veterinarian
within 48 hours of adoption and the attending veterinarian states in writing
that the animal was ill at the time of adoption.
      (11)   If a veterinarian determines, within 48 hours of adoption, that
the animal is in need of medical treatment to prevent death, or that the animal
was ill at the time of adoption, the animal may be returned to the Animal
Control Administrator or his or her authorized agent. In this event, the animal
may be exchanged for either another animal or a refund of adoption fees minus a
$5 recordkeeping fee.
      (12)   The Animal Control Administrator or his or her authorized agent or
the county shall not be legally or financially responsible for any animal after
adoption. This includes, but is not limited to, a biting incident. If the
adopted animal bites someone, the owner must have the animal examined by a
veterinarian within 24 hours of the biting incident. The animal must then be
confined for a rabies observation period of ten days, as required by law in the
state. If the animal has been legally vaccinated against rabies at the time of
the incident, the animal may be confined at the adopter’s residence. If the
animal had not been legally vaccinated at the time of the incident, the animal
must be confined by a veterinarian for the ten-day period at the owner’s
expense. The owner of the offending animal must also notify the Animal Control
Officer, the Sheriff or the police within 24 hours of the incident.
      (13)   (a)   If the adopter allows the adopted animal to run at large
within any city, village or unincorporated area of the county, the animal may
be impounded by the County Animal Control Officer and replaced for adoption.
         (b)   If a complaint should be received by the Animal Control Officer,
the adopter is allowing the animal to run at large or make disturbing and
annoying noise (barking dog or caterwauling cat), and the complaint is
determined to be valid, the Animal Control Officer may issue the owner a
citation or a notice to appear in court.
         (c)   The animal may also be impounded and not returned to the adopter
for violation of the adoption agreement.
      (14)   If the adopter finds another home for the adopted animal, the
adopter must notify the County Treasurer’s office within three days. The
adopter must provide the name, address, city, state, zip code and telephone
number of the new owner.
      (15)   All receipts for medical treatment and vaccinations for adopted
animals shall be kept for at least six months.
 
I,                               , have read, understand and will comply will all rules and regulation stated above.
 
Adopter’s Signature                                                           
Signature of person releasing animal                                    
Date                                                                                
 
 
   (C)   Adoption fees shall be established as follows:
      (1)   Adoption fee (general public or adoption agency): $25;
      (2)   Deposit for spayed or neutered fee: $30;
      (3)   Rabies vaccination fee: $25; and
      (4)   Registration fee for each altered or unaltered animal:
         (a)   Altered (1 year): $15;
         (b)   Unaltered (1 year): $25;
         (c)   Altered (3 years): $38; and
         (d)   Unaltered (3 years): $65.
(Prior Code, § 90.83) (Motion carried 5-16-1991; Ord. passed 11-13-1997; Ord.
passed 4-16-1998; Res. passed 12-17-2015; Res. 2016-02, passed 1-21-2016; Res.
23-11, passed 5-18-2023)
§ 90.087 ANIMAL CONTROL FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Altered animal registration (1 year): $15.
   (B)   Unaltered animal registration (1 year): $25.
   (C)   Altered animal registration (3 years): $38.
   (D)   Unaltered animal registration (3 years): $65.
2024 S-10
   Animal Control   12A
 
   (E)   Microchip administration fee: $15.
   (F)   (1)   Boarding fee (standard): $15; and
      (2)   Additional boarding fee for female in heat: $10.
   (G)   (1)   Reclaim fee (canine): $50;
      (2)   Reclaim fee (feline - first offense): $40;
      (3)   Reclaim fee (canine/feline - second offense): $75; and
      (4)   Reclaim fee (canine/feline - third offense): $100.
   (H)   Adoption administration fee: $25.
   (I)   Vaccine administration fee: $10.
   (J)   FeLF/FIV test: $26.
   (K)   Heartworm test: $24.
   (L)   Worming fee: $6.
   (M)   Advantage: $18.
   (N)   Rabies vaccination fee: $25.
   (O)   Distemper vaccination: $12.
   (P)   FVRCP (feline distemper): $12.
   (Q)   Relinquish fees:
      (1)   Dog (1 - 25 pounds): $25;
      (2)   Dog (26 - 45 pounds): $35;
      (3)   Dog (46 - 65 pounds): $50;
      (4)   Dog (66 pounds or more ): $60;
 
      (5)   Cat (any size): $35; and
      (6)   Owner must reside in DeWitt County to relinquish any animal; any
overdue rabies vaccination or registration fees may be charged at the time of
relinquishment.
   (R)   (1)   Rabies containment fee - canine (10 days): $15/day; and
      (2)   Rabies containment fee - feline (10 days): $15/day.
   (S)   Deposit for spayed or neutered fee: $30.
   (T)   Public safety fine (510 ILCS 5/10): $25.
      (1)   Fine to be waived if first offense and the owner has animal spayed/
neutered within 14 days.
   (U)   Registration late fee (each 30 days late): $5.
(Res. passed 12-17-2015; Res. 2016-02, passed 1-21-2016; Res. 23-11, passed 5-
18-2023)
DOGS
§ 90.090 COLLAR REQUIRED.
   No person shall own, possess, keep, maintain or harbor any dog without
providing the dog with a collar to be worn at all times.
(Res. 23-8, passed 4-20-2023)
§ 90.091 IDENTIFICATION TAG REQUIRED.
   All dogs shall have affixed to their collars or harness an identification
tag stating the owner’s name, current address, and telephone number.
(Res. 23-8, passed 4-20-2023)
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter shall be a petty offense punishable by a
fine of not less than $50 and not more than $500.
   (B)   Whoever violates §§
90.055 through
90.058 shall be guilty of a class A misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to
exceed $1,000.
(Prior Code, § 90.99) (Ord. passed 1-17-1991)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
Public Nuisances; Abandoned and Inoperative Vehicles
   
91.01   Statutory authorization
   
91.02   Purpose
   
91.03   Definitions
   
91.04   Declaration of public nuisances
   
91.05   Enforcement
Health Nuisances
   
91.20   Purpose
   
91.21   Interpretation
   
91.22   Definitions
   
91.23   Powers of the Board of Health
   
91.24   Declaration of public nuisance
   
91.25   Enforcement
   
91.26   Correction of violation
Protection of Farming Operations from Nuisance Suits
   
91.40   Intent
   
91.41   Farming practices protected
   
91.42   Enforcement
 
   
91.99   Penalty
PUBLIC NUISANCES; ABANDONED AND INOPERATIVE VEHICLES
§ 91.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to authority given by Ill. Rev. Stat.
Ch. 100-34, § 26.
(Prior Code, § 92.01) (Ord. passed 7-11-1978)
§ 91.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to define and abate public nuisances which
are a detriment to the people of the county and to property values in the
county. The nuisances defined in §
91.03 are detrimental to safety, health and public welfare, and are adverse to
the conservation of property values.
(Prior Code, § 92.02) (Ord. passed 7-11-1978)
§ 91.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK. Discarded paper, cartons, boxes, barrels, wood, plastics, metals,
glass, pieces of glass, cans, bottles and all other types of discarded items,
regardless of form.
   VEHICLE. Automobiles, trucks, buses and all other similar mediums designed
to be operated on public thoroughfares.
   VEHICLE, ABANDONED. Vehicles located on public or private property which are
allowed to remain on public property, or on private property without the
consent of the owner, for a period of more than 24 hours.
   VEHICLE, INOPERABLE. A vehicle which, in its present state, is incapable of
being operated on a public thoroughfare and has remained in that state for a
period of 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 92.03) (Ord. passed 7-11-1978)
§ 91.04 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   The following are declared to be public nuisances when they exist upon
property within the unincorporated area of the county, except in those
instances permitted under the provisions of the county’s Zoning Code, as
revised:
   (A)   The storage, outside of an enclosed building, of one or more abandoned
or inoperative vehicles;
   (B)   The storage, outside of an enclosed building, of parts of any motor
vehicle, machinery or equipment, regardless of form;
   (C)   The storage, outside of an enclosed building, of any junk or debris,
regardless of form; and
   (D)   To allow any burned, wrecked or damaged mobile or modular home to
remain on any property, unless it is reasonably returned to its original
condition.
(Prior Code, § 92.04) (Ord. passed 7-11-1978) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Administrator of the Department of Planning and Zoning of the
county is designated as the Enforcing Officer of this subchapter.
   (B)   The County Health Department shall also enforce this subchapter
insofar as any health hazards are involved; the Sheriff’s Department of the
county shall enforce this subchapter insofar as abandoned and inoperative
vehicles are involved.
   (C)   Any authorized employees of those Departments shall have the authority
to initiate proceedings to correct violations of the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 92.05) (Ord. passed 7-11-1978)
HEALTH NUISANCES
§ 91.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter shall be to prohibit, abate, suppress and
prevent all acts, practices, conduct, uses of property and all other things
detrimental to the health of the inhabitants of the county.
(Prior Code, § 92.20) (Ord. passed 2-11-1980)
§ 91.21 INTERPRETATION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be the minimum requirements for the
promotion of the public health, safety, morals, comfort and general welfare of
the inhabitants of the county.
(Prior Code, § 92.21) (Ord. passed 2-11-1980)
§ 91.22 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF HEALTH. The DeWitt-Piatt County Board of Health or its authorized
representative.
   PERSON. Any institution, corporation, individual, partnership or other
entity.
(Prior Code, § 92.22) (Ord. passed 2-11-1980)
§ 91.23 POWERS OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH.
   The Board of Health is hereby authorized and empowered to inspect all
buildings, lands and places as to their conditions affecting health and
sanitation and whenever any declared nuisance, source of filth or condition
prejudicial to the public health is found to exist, the Board shall have the
power and the authority to order the owner or occupant or user thereof to make
the alterations or changes necessary to correct and remove the nuisance, source
of filth or condition prejudicial to the public health.
(Prior Code, § 92.23) (Ord. passed 2-11-1980)
§ 91.24 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The following are declared to be public nuisances prejudicial to the public
health:
   (A)   All decayed or unwholesome food offered for sale to the public;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   Carcasses of dead animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours
after death;
   (D)   Accumulations of manure, rubbish, garbage, refuse and human and
industrial or noxious or offensive waste, except normal storage on a farm, of
manure, for agricultural purposes;
   (E)   Privy vaults or garbage cans which are not fly-tight;
   (F)   The pollution of any well, cistern, spring, underground water stream,
lake, canal or body of water by sewage or industrial wastes, or other
substances harmful to human beings;
   (G)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities, or the presence of any gas, vapor, fume, smoke, dust or any other
toxic substance on, in or emitted from the equipment of any premises in
quantities sufficient to be toxic, harmful or injurious to the health of any
employee or to any premises, occupant or to any other person;
   (H)   Common drinking cups, roller towels, combs, brushes or eating utensils
in public or semipublic places not properly sanitized after use;
   (I)   All infestations of vermin which may be involved in the transmission
of communicable disease;
   (J)   The keeping of animal or fowls in close proximity of residences,
schools, hospitals, public or semi-public buildings, playgrounds, parks and
other public places, except pet cats and dogs, animals in public or licensed
zoos or farm animals, on farms and in laboratories;
   (K)   To rent or lease quarters for human habitation which are declared
unfit for human habitation by the Board of Health;
   (L)   To allow an abandoned refrigerator or freezer that does not have
doors, locks or latches removed to remain upon any premises;
   (M)   To throw or deposit any offals, refuse, junk or the carcass of any
dead animal in any water course, lake, pond, spring, well, common sewer, street
or public roadway;
   (N)   To allow any building, home, mobile home, farm building, shed, fence
or other human-made structure to exist in a deteriorated condition which is
dangerous to public health, in that the structures may cause or aid in the
spread of disease, because of its condition, construction or lack of proper
repair, or may cause injury to the public health; and
   (O)   All other acts, practices, conduct, businesses, occupations, callings,
trades, uses of property and all other things detrimental or certain to be
detrimental to the health of the inhabitants of the county.
(Prior Code, § 92.24) (Ord. passed 2-11-1980) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.25 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any duly authorized member or representative of the County Health Department
is hereby designated an enforcing officer of this subchapter and it shall be
the duty of the State’s Attorney of the county to prosecute any violator or
offender under this subchapter that are all to his or her attention by the
Board of Health, and the Board of Health shall hereby be given specific power
to make inspections and, for that purpose, may enter buildings, structures and
premises in order to enforce the provisions of this subchapter and, to that
end, shall make the orders, requirements, decisions and determinations as are
necessary with respect to the enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 92.25) (Ord. passed 2-11-1980)
§ 91.26 CORRECTION OF VIOLATION.
   The owner of any vehicle, junk, machinery or other nuisances declared to be
so in this subchapter or any person owning, leasing, occupying or having
control of property on which a nuisance exists shall be cited for violation of
the provision of this subchapter, and be given reasonable time, but not less
than 48 hours, to correct the violation. Furthermore, if the owner fails to
correct the violation within the stated time, the county, through its properly
designated officer shall have the right to petition the court for an
appropriate order to enter upon the property and correct the violation, and
shall have a lien against the property for the reasonable cost of correction.
(Prior Code, § 92.26) (Ord. passed 2-11-1980)
PROTECTION OF FARMING OPERATIONS FROM NUISANCE SUITS
§ 91.40 INTENT.
   It is the official stated policy of the county to encourage development
within the county to occur in a fashion as to minimize conflict between farming
and other land uses. This policy is expressed in the current zoning regulations
and shall be incorporated into any new plans prepared by the county.
(Prior Code, § 91.30) (Ord. passed 4-14-1994)
§ 91.41 FARMING PRACTICES PROTECTED.
   (A)   ILCS Ch. 740, Act 70, §§ 1 et seq. provides farmers with statutory
defense against nuisance suits where a farm has been in operation for more than
one year and operated according to the established standards of the farming
community for the type of operation being conducted.
   (B)   A number of farming practices will be protected as listed, but not
limited to:
      (1)   Wide, slow moving farm equipment on roads;
      (2)   Noise, dust or odors from the operation of machinery as well as
pesticides, fertilizers and manure being applied to the farmland at various
times of the day or night;
      (3)   Wind blown debris, such as cornstalks, soybean residue, husks and
the like;
      (4)   Aerial applications of pesticides or other materials;
      (5)   Odors and noise from livestock operations and/or stray livestock;
and
      (6)   Drainage problems or short-term flooding, which may occur during
heavy rainfall.
(Prior Code, § 91.31) (Ord. passed 4-14-1994)
§ 91.42 ENFORCEMENT.
   The county will not enforce any rule, regulation or ordinance in a manner as
to violate the Protection of Farming Operations From Nuisance Suits Act, ILCS
Ch. 740, Act 70, §§ 1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 91.32) (Ord. passed 4-14-1994)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions set forth in §
10.99.
   (B)   If the person owning, leasing, occupying or having control of the
property as set forth in §§
91.20 through
91.25, fails to correct the violation within the stated time, he or she shall
be guilty of a violation of those sections and, upon conviction, he or she
shall be fined a sum not less than $5, nor more than $100. Each day upon which
a violation exists shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 92.99) (Ord. passed 2-11-1980)
CHAPTER 92: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
92.01   Land acquisition for highway construction, maintenance and widening
projects
   
92.02   Numbering system for county roads
§ 92.01 LAND ACQUISITION FOR HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE AND WIDENING
PROJECTS.
   All future land acquisition for highway construction, maintenance and
widening projects shall be by fee simple absolute, easement or dedication or as
otherwise authorized by law.
(Prior Code, § 93.01) (Res. passed 3-13-1973)
§ 92.02 NUMBERING SYSTEM FOR COUNTY ROADS.
   The numbering system for county roads shall be that it uses the freight
house as a hub, intersection county meridian and county base line.
(Prior Code, § 93.02) (Motion carried 4-13-1964)
Cross-reference:
   Road Naming; Addressing System, see
Ch. 150
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   FOOD SERVICE SANITATION
      
112.   JUNKYARDS
      
113.   ADULT USE BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Definitions
Licensing Regulations
   
110.15   License required
   
110.16   Permitted use of license
   
110.17   Application for license; fee; contents
   
110.18   Restrictions on issuance of license
   
110.19   Expiration of license; renewal
   
110.20   Bond required; filing; conditions
   
110.21   Refund of fees
   
110.22   License classifications
   
110.23   Display of license
   
110.24   Transfer of license
   
110.25   Separate license for each location
   
110.26   Change of location
   
110.27   Peddling prohibited
   
110.28   Revocation or suspension of license
Standards of Operation
   
110.40   Hours of operation
   
110.41   Consumption of alcohol after hours prohibited
   
110.42   Serving restrictions
   
110.43   Sanitary conditions of premises
   
110.44   Restriction on location
   
110.45   Liquor Control Commissioner and Commission
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES. Spirit, wine, beer, ale, whiskey, gin, brandy, rum or
any distilled or fermented liquid containing more than 0.5% alcohol by volume,
fit for human consumption.
   BEER. A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley, or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
   HOURS. Either Central Standard Time or Central Daylight Time, whichever is
in effect in the county.
   RETAIL SALE. Sale for use or consumption and not for resale.
   SALE. Transfer, exchange or barter for consideration, include any sale made
by any person including principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
   SELL. The act of making a sale, receiving an order for exposing to the
public for the purpose of selling or keeping with the intent to sell.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables, containing sugar, including beverages when
fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits, as defined in this section.
(Prior Code, § 110.01) (Ord. passed 9-14-1989)
LICENSING REGULATIONS
§ 110.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for retail sale in the territory in
the county, outside of the limits of any incorporated city, town or village,
any alcoholic beverage without having a retailer’s license, or to be in
violation of the terms of the license.
(Prior Code, § 110.15) (Ord. passed 9-14-1989) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.16 PERMITTED USE OF LICENSE.
   A retailer’s license shall allow the licensee to sell or offer for sale
alcoholic beverages, at retail only and not for resale in any form, on the
premises specified in the license in accordance with the classification of the
license as provided in §
110.22.
(Prior Code, § 110.16) (Ord. passed 9-14-1989) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.17 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE; CONTENTS.
   (A)   Applications for the license shall be made in writing by the
application to the County Clerk, accompanied by the required Clerk’s fee and
filing fee in cash, check or money order. The County Clerk shall then refer the
applications to the Liquor Control Commission and shall transfer the license
fee in the same manner as all license fees received in his or her office. The
County Clerk’s fee for accepting the license application shall be $5 per
license and shall be submitted in cash, check or money order with the
application.
   (B)   Applications for any license under the terms of this chapter shall be
signed by the applicant, if any individual; by all of the partners if a
partnership; or by a duly authorized agent of the corporation, if a
corporation; and all signatures thereon shall be verified. The application
shall contain the following:
      (1)   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a partnership, the persons entitled to share in the
profits thereof; in the case of a corporation, the date of the incorporation,
the state of incorporation for which the corporation was organized, the names
and addresses of the officers, directors, shareholders and whether the
corporation is organized as a profit or not-for-profit corporation and, if a
not-for-profit corporation, the members thereof;
      (2)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth and if
a naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
      (3)   The character of the business in which the license is intended;
      (4)   The length of time that applicant has been in a business similar to
that for which the license is sought, or in the case of a corporation, the date
on which its charter was issued;
      (5)   An inventory of goods, wares, merchandise, equipment, expendables
and any matter on hand solely for the purpose of the business for which the
license is applied;
      (6)   The location and description of the premises to be operated under
the license, and photographs of the interior, and exterior, kitchen and dining
area of the premises. In the event the building is not constructed, at the time
of the of the application, the plans of the building to be constructed,
certified by a registered architect;
      (7)   A statement whether the applicant has made application for any
other license on premises other than described in this application, and the
disposition of each prior application;
      (8)   The date, place and nature of any conviction of crime of the
applicant or, if a corporation, the date and place of any conviction of crime
of any agent or shareholder of the corporation;
      (9)   Whether a previous license to sell alcoholic beverages has been
suspended or revoked by any state or subdivision thereof, or by the federal
government, the date and place of the suspension or revocation and the reasons
for the suspension or revocation;
      (10)   A statement that the applicant is completely familiar with the
terms and provisions of the chapter;
      (11)   A statement that the applicant is not disqualified from receiving
a liquor license by reason of any provision within the law of the state;
      (12)   A certificate of insurance issued by a reputable insurance carrier
insuring the business under the dram shop laws of the state, the certificate to
reflect liability insurance under the Act in amounts of not less than $100,000
per person and $300,000 per occurrence;
      (13)   The names and addresses of three references within the county who
can attest to the applicant’s character and reputation;
      (14)   The names of the person or persons who will manage the business or
be the agent of the applicant in supervising the business operation; and
      (15)   The names of any public office held by the applicant; any partner,
if a partnership; any shareholder, director or member, if a corporation; if
either type, profit or not-for-profit.
(Prior Code, § 110.17) (Ord. passed 9-14-1989)
§ 110.18 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   No license under the terms of this chapter shall be issued to any applicant
if:
   (A)   The applicant is a person who does not reside in the county;
   (B)   The applicant is a person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   (C)   The applicant is a person who has been convicted of a felony under the
laws of the state;
   (D)   The applicant is a person who is keeping a house of ill-fame or who
has been convicted of being a keeper of a house of ill-fame;
   (E)   The applicant is a person who has been convicted of pandering or any
other crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude under the laws of the
state or any other state, or under any federal statute;
   (F)   The applicant is a person whose license to sell alcoholic beverages in
the county has been suspended or revoked for cause;
   (G)   The applicant is a person who, at the time of application for renewal
of a license issued under the terms of this chapter would be ineligible for a
license upon an initial application;
   (H)   The applicant is a person who has been convicted of a violation of any
state or federal law regarding the manufacture, sale or possession of alcoholic
beverages, or who has forfeited his or her bond to appear in court to answer
alleging violations of the state or federal laws;
   (I)   The applicant is a person who is not of good character and reputation
in the community in which he or she resides;
   (J)   The applicant is a partnership and any of the members of the
partnership would be prohibited from being issued a license under any provision
of this section;
   (K)   The applicant is a corporation and any corporation officer, manager or
director, or any owner or holder of a substantial interest in the stock or
other securities of the corporation, would be prohibited from being issued a
license under divisions (C) through (O) hereof;
   (L)   The applicant is a person, partnership or corporation whose place of
business is conducted by a manager or agent where the manager or agent would be
prohibited from being issued a license under any provision of this section;
   (M)   The applicant is a person, partnership or corporation who does not own
the premises for which a license is sought or who does not have a valid lease
on the premises for the full period of time for which the license is to be
issued;
   (N)   (1)   The applicant is a person, partnership or corporation where the
applicant or any partner, shareholder, officer or director is a law enforcement
officer, mayor, alderman or member of any city council or commission, president
or member of any village board, chairperson or member of the county board; and
      (2)   However, any official herein enumerated may be a member of a not-
for-profit corporation, as defined in this chapter; provided that, any official
is a member only of the not-for-profit corporation; and, provided further that,
no part of the proceeds of the not-for-profit corporation inures to the benefit
of any member thereof.
   (O)   The applicant is a person, partnership or corporation which is
ineligible for a retail liquor dealer’s license issued by the state.
(Prior Code, § 110.18) (Ord. passed 9-14-1989)
§ 110.19 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE; RENEWAL.
   (A)   Each license shall expire at midnight on June 30, next following its
issuance. The fee to be paid shall be reduced in proportion to the full
calendar months which have expired in the year prior to the issuance of the
license.
   (B)   Any licensee may renew his or her license at the expiration thereof;
provided, he or she is then qualified to receive a license and the premises for
which the renewal license is sought are suitable for the purposes, in the same
manner as required of any new applicant.
(Prior Code, § 110.19) (Ord. passed 9-14-1989)
§ 110.20 BOND REQUIRED; FILING; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Each applicant for a license hereunder shall execute a penal bond to
the county and state in the sum of $2,000 with two sureties thereon who are
residents of the county, and who are acceptable to the Liquor Control
Commission, or with a solvent surety company licensed to do business in the
state. The Commission shall consider the bond and shall have the right to
disapprove the bond.
   (B)   The bond shall be filed with the County Clerk at the same time
application is presented and shall be referred by the County Clerk to the
Commission with the application.
   (C)   The bond shall be conditioned upon the faithful observance by the
licensee of the chapter and provisions of all liquor laws of the state and all
laws of the United States of America applying to the sale, transportation and
possession of alcoholic beverages. The bond shall be further conditioned upon
the payment by the person, partnership or corporation bonded to any person or
persons entitled to damages as a result of any sale, occurrence, transaction or
injury which arises from the operation of the business for which the license
hereto applies.
   (D)   A new bond shall be presented yearly at the time of the application
for a renewal of any license under the terms of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 110.20) (Ord. passed 9-14-1989)
§ 110.21 REFUND OF FEES.
   (A)   In the event that an application for a license under this chapter is
denied, the application fee accompanying the application shall be returned to
the applicant.
   (B)   In the event that any holder of a license issued under this chapter
joins the Armed Forces of the United States, whether by voluntary enlistment,
draft, conscription or otherwise, the holder of a license shall be entitled to
a pro rata refund of a portion of the current annual license fee paid. The pro
rata refund is to be computed by taking the number of months for which the
license is not used, dividing this number by 12, then multiplying the result by
the annual fee for whatever class of license is involved. No holder of a
license shall be entitled to a refund under this section until he or she
provides proper proof to the Commission that he or she has in fact, become a
member of the Armed Forces of the United States.
(Prior Code, § 110.21) (Ord. passed 9-14-1989)
§ 110.22 LICENSE CLASSIFICATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, PREMISES SPECIFIED shall mean the
premises described in the application and license, and is limited thereto.
Separate license for each separate location is required. Only one location
shall be described in each license issued.
   (B)   Licenses issued under the terms of this chapter shall be divided into
classes, with the annual fee for each class of license being payable at the
time the application for a license is filed with the County Clerk.
      (1)   Class A license. A class A license shall authorize the sale of
alcoholic liquor at retail in original package forms for consumption off the
premises where the retail sates are made and for the sale of alcoholic liquor
at retail for consumption on the premises where sold. The annual fee for the
license shall be $1,500.
      (2)   Class B license. A class B license shall authorize the sale of
alcoholic liquor at retail for the consumption on the premises specified where
sold. The annual fee for the license shall be $750.
      (3)   Class C license. A class C license shall authorize the sale of
alcoholic liquor at retail in original package forms on the premises specified,
but not for consumption on the premises where the retail sales are made. The
annual fee for the license shall be $750.
      (4)   Class D license. A class D license shall authorize the sale of
alcoholic liquor at retail on the premises specified for a not-for-profit
corporation, as defined herein, of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the
premises. The annual fee for the license shall be $375.
      (5)   Class E license. A class E license shall authorize the sale of beer
or wine at retail on the premises specified for consumption on the premises in
connection with a one-day special event held by a not-for-profit corporation.
The licenses will be limited to three consecutive days. The fee for the license
shall be $75 per day. The licenses shall be issued only to not-for-profit
corporations.
(Prior Code, § 110.22) (Ord. passed 9-14-1989)
§ 110.23 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee shall cause his or her license to be framed and hung in plain
view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 110.23) (Ord. passed 9-14-1989)
§ 110.24 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license shall be transferable. Any license issued under the terms hereof
shall license only the applicant or, if a corporation, only the applying
corporation. If there shall be any change from those named in the application,
the license shall immediately become null and void. Any license granted shall
not be subject to attachment, garnishment or execution, nor shall it be
alienable or transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily or subject to being
encumbered or the subject matter of any lien. The license shall not descend by
will or the laws of intestate succession, but shall terminate upon the death of
any licensee. The trustees of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when the
estate consists in part of alcoholic beverage, may continue the business of the
sale or manufacture of alcoholic liquor under order of the appropriate court,
and may exercise the privileges of deceased or insolvent or bankrupt license
after the death of the decedent, or the solvency or bankruptcy until the
expiration of the license, but not longer than six months after the death,
bankruptcy or insolvency of the licensee. A refund shall be made of that
portion of the license fees paid for any period in which the licensee shall be
prevented from operating under the license in accordance with the provisions of
this section.
(Prior Code, § 110.24) (Ord. passed 9-14-1989)
§ 110.25 SEPARATE LICENSE FOR EACH LOCATION.
   Separate license for each separate location is required. Only one location
shall be described in each license issued.
(Prior Code, § 110.25) (Ord. passed 9-14-1989)
§ 110.26 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   Any license granted hereunder shall permit the sale of alcoholic beverages
only in the premises described in the application and licenses. The location
may be changed only upon the written permit to make the change issued by the
Liquor Control Commission. No change of location shall be permitted unless the
proposed new location is a proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor
under the law of this state and the terms and provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 110.26) (Ord. passed 9-14-1989)
§ 110.27 PEDDLING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership or corporation to
peddle alcoholic liquor in the county outside the corporate limits of any city,
town or village.
(Prior Code, § 110.27) (Ord. passed 9-14-1989) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.28 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   When any license shall have been revoked for any cause, no license
shall be granted to any person for the period of one year thereafter, for the
conduct of the business of manufacturing, distributing or selling alcoholic
beverages in the premises described in the revoked license.
   (B)   Any five residents of the territory in the county outside the
corporate limits of any city, town or village shall have the right to file a
complaint with the Liquor Control Commission stating that any retail licensee,
subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission, has been or is violating the
provisions of this chapter or the rules or regulations pursuant hereto. The
complaint shall be in writing in the form prescribed by the Commission and
shall be signed and sworn to by the parties complaining. The complaint shall
state the particular provisions, rule or regulations believed to have been
violated and the facts in detail upon which belief is based. If the Commission
is satisfied that there has been a violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter and that the charges have been proven by a preponderance of the
evidence, then the Commission shall issue an order suspending or revoking the
license.
   (C)   The Commission shall have the authority to enter or to authorize any
law enforcing officer to enter at all reasonable times upon any premises
hereunder to determine whether any of the provisions of this chapter or any
rules or regulations adopted by it, or state liquor regulations have been or
are violated, and at such time to examine the premises of the license in
connection therewith.
   (D)   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the
licensee derives the right to possession of the premises, or the agent or the
owner or persons, shall knowingly permit the licensee to use the licensed
premises in violation of the terms of this chapter, the owner, agent or other
person shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter to the same extent
as the licensee and be subject to the same punishment.
   (E)   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter, by any officer, director, manager or
other agent or employee of any licensee, if the act is committed or omission is
made with the authorization, knowledge or approval of the licensee, shall be
deemed and held to the act of the employer, or licensee, and the employer or
licensee shall be punishable in the same manner as if the act or omission had
been done or omitted by him or her personally.
   (F)   Whenever any licensee shall be convicted of any violation of this
chapter, the license of the licensee shall be suspended or revoked, and all
fees paid thereon shall be forfeited, and the bond given by the licensee to
secure the licensee’s faithful compliance with the terms of this chapter shall
be forfeited, and it shall thereafter be unlawful and shall constitute a
further violation of this chapter for the licensee to continue to operate under
the license.
   (G)   Whenever any officer, director, manager or other employee in a
position of authority of any licensee under this chapter shall be convicted of
any violation of this chapter while engaged in the course of his or her
employment or while upon the premises described by the license, and the license
shall be suspended or revoked and the fees paid thereon forfeited, and the bond
given by the licensee to secure the faithful compliance with the terms of this
chapter shall be forfeited in like manner as if the licensee has himself or
herself been convicted.
(Prior Code, § 110.28) (Ord. passed 9-14-1989) Penalty, see §
110.99
STANDARDS OF OPERATION
§ 110.40 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The hours of opening on all days shall be 6:00 a.m. with the exception of
Sunday, which opening hour shall be 8:00 a.m. The time of closing shall be 1:00
a.m.
(Prior Code, § 110.40) (Ord. passed 9-14-1989; Ord. passed 3-24-2005) Penalty,
see §
110.99
§ 110.41 CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL AFTER HOURS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to permit any person to consume any
alcoholic beverage on the licensed premises during the hours when the license
prohibits the sale of alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, § 110.41) (Ord. passed 9-14-1989) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.42 SERVING RESTRICTIONS.
   No licensee shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic beverage to any minor, or
to any intoxicated person, or to any person known to him or her to be a
habitual drunkard, spendthrift or insane, mental or deficient person.
(Prior Code, § 110.42) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.43 SANITARY CONDITIONS OF PREMISES.
   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic beverages or for the
storage of the beverages for the sale shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition, and shall be kept in full compliance with the laws of the state and
the ordinance or resolution of the county regulating the condition of premises
used for the storage or sale of food for human consumption.
(Prior Code, § 110.43) (Ord. passed 9-14-1989) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.44 RESTRICTION ON LOCATION.
   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic beverage
within 100 feet of any church, school, hospital, home for aged or indigent
person or for veterans, their wives or children, or any military station.
(Prior Code, § 110.44) (Ord. passed 9-14-1989) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.45 LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER AND COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Chairperson of the County Board shall be the Liquor Control
Commissioner and shall head the Liquor Control Commission appointed in accord
with the terms of this chapter.
   (B)   The Chairperson of the County Board may appoint a Liquor Control
Commission, hereinafter referred to as the Commission, from the members of the
Board to assist him or her in the exercise of the powers and the performance of
the duties provided in this chapter or under the State Liquor Control Act,
being ILCS Ch. 255, Act 5, for the Liquor Control Commissioner. The number so
appointed shall not be less than three, nor more than five, members, not
including the Chairperson of the Board. Attendance at a meeting by more than
one-half of the appointed members shall permit the convening of the Commission.
If the Chairperson of the Board is absent or is unable to perform the duties of
the Chairperson of the Commission for any reason, he or she may appoint a
member of the Commission to act in his or her place. Any person so appointed
shall perform all of the functions and duties which the Chairperson of the
Commission would normally perform.
   (C)   The Commission by majority vote at a convened meeting may issue, or
revoke or suspend any retail dealer’s license in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter or on the basis of provisions by any law of the state
pertaining to the sale of alcoholic beverages.
   (D)   In case of a tie vote of the Commission members at a convened meeting,
the Chairperson of the Commission shall vote to break the tie.
   (E)   The Commission shall keep or cause to be kept a complete record of all
licenses issued by the Commission, and shall furnish the County Treasurer,
State’s Attorney and Sheriff each with a copy thereof; upon the issuance of any
license or revocation of any license the Liquor Control Commissioner or
Commission shall give notice of the action by the Liquor Control Commissioner
or Commission to each of these officers within 48 hours of the action.
(Prior Code, § 110.55) (Ord. passed 9-14-1989)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than $500, for each offense and for
the second or subsequent offense fined not less than $1,000 or by imprisonment
in the county jail not more than six months, or by both fine and imprisonment,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which
the violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 110.99) (Ord. passed 9-14-1989)
CHAPTER 111: FOOD SERVICE SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
111.001   Rules and regulations generally
   
111.002   Definitions
   
111.003   Procedure when infection is suspected
   
111.004   Certified food protection manager class
   
111.005   Food establishments outside the jurisdiction of the regulatory
authority
   
111.006   Plan review of future construction and ownership changes
Permits
   
111.020   Generally
   
111.021   Issuance of permits
   
111.022   Suspension of permits
   
111.023   Reinstatement of suspended permits
   
111.024   Revocation of permits
   
111.025   Expiration of permits
Inspection Protocol
   
111.040   Classification
   
111.041   Frequency of inspection
   
111.042   Right of entry
   
111.043   Report of inspection
   
111.044   Determining the status of the food service establishment
   
111.045   Correction of violations
Temporary Food Operations
   
111.060   Rules and regulations
   
111.061   Issuance of permits
   
111.062   Frequence of inspection
   
111.063   Suspension and revocation of permit
Home Kitchen Operation
   
111.075   Qualifications for a home kitchen operation
   
111.076   Right of inspection
   
111.077   Cessation of operations when an outbreak is suspected
Examination and Condemnation of Food and/or Equipment
   
111.090   Food
   
111.091   Equipment
   
111.092   Preexisting equipment
 
   
111.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.001 RULES AND REGULATIONS GENERALLY.
   In addition to those provisions set forth herein, this chapter hereby adopts
by reference the current and subsequent revisions of the following:
   (A)   Illinois Department of Public Health Food Service Sanitation Code, 77
Ill. Admin. Code 750;
   (B)   Food Handling Regulation Enforcement Act, ILCS Ch. 410, Act 620;
   (C)   Bed and Breakfast Act, ILCS Ch. 50, Act 820; and
   (D)   Food Code (2013) of the United States Public Health Service Food and
Drug Administration.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2009; Am. Ord. passed 5-30-2018)
§ 111.002 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in the above rules and regulations,
the following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter.
   ADULTERATED. Shall have the same meaning as defined in the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   APPLICANT. Any person submitting a permit application to the regulatory
authority.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. An operator-occupied residence providing
accommodations for a charge to the public with no more than five guest rooms
for rent, in operation for more than ten nights in a 12-month period. Breakfast
may be provided to the guest only. BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS shall not
include motels, hotels, boarding houses, or food service establishments.
   CATEGORY I FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A food service establishment that presents a
high relative risk of causing foodborne illness, based on operation and/or type
of population served.
   CATEGORY II FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A food establishment that present a medium
relative risk of causing foodborne illness, based upon few handling operations
typically implicated in foodborne illness outbreaks.
   CATEGORY III FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A food service establishment that presents
a low relative risk of causing foodborne illness outbreaks.
   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. 
      (1)   An operation that stores, prepares, packages, serves or vends food
directly to the consumer or otherwise provides for human consumption, such as a
restaurant, satellite or catered feeding location, catering operation if the
operation provides food directly to an consumer or to a conveyance used to
transport people, market, vending location, institution or food pantry; and
relinquishes possession of food to a consumer directly, or indirectly through a
delivery service such as home deliver, grocery order, restaurant takeout orders
or delivery service that is provided by common carriers (77 Ill. Admin. Code
750).
      (2)   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT shall not include:
         (a)   An establishment or vending operation that offers only
prepackaged foods that are not time/temperature controlled for safety.
         (b)   A produce stand that exclusively offers whole, uncut fruits and
vegetables.
         (c)   A food processing plant.
         (d)   A kitchen in a private home, such as a daycare provider or bed
and breakfast as defined in the Bed and Breakfast Act that prepares food items
that re not time/temperature controlled for safety.
         (e)   A cottage food operation.
   HOME KITCHEN OPERATION. Any operations conducted by a person who produces or
packages non-potentially hazardous baked good in a kitchen of that person's
primary residence for direct sale by the owner or a family member, or for sale
by a religious, charitable, or nonprofit organization, stored in the residence
where the baked goods are made (ILCS Ch. 410, Act 625, § 3.6).
   INSANITARY. Any condition that is likely to cause illness.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDOR. Any food service operation that is operated from a
movable motor driven or propelled vehicle, a portable structure, or water craft
that has the ability to relocate at any given time.
   NOT-FOR-PROFIT ORGANIZATION. Those organizations recognized as such pursuant
to the laws of the State of Illinois. This definition does not include
organizations in possession of any annual liquor license (not a special event
license) or an Illinois sales tax number for commercial purposes (not tax
exempt numbers).
   PERMIT. The document issued by the regulatory authority authorizing a person
or corporation to operate a food service establishment.
   PERMIT HOLDER. Any person or his agent(s) who applies for the license of a
food establishment, retail food store, mobile food operation, seasonal food
operation, or temporary food operation.
   PLAN REVIEW. An evaluation process conducted by the health department of new
food establishments and facilities undergoing a change in ownership.
   REGULATORY AUTHORITY. The DeWitt-Piatt Bi-County Health Department or an
authorized agent thereof.
   SEASONAL FOOD OPERATION. A facility providing food to the consumer, operated
by the person listed on the permit, and in a single designated location. The
permit shall be valid for six months and persons are restricted to one permit
per calendar year. Seasonal food establishment permits are not necessarily
associated with any special event.
   TEMPORARY FOOD OPERATION. A food service establishment that operates at a
fixed location for a period not to exceed 14 consecutive days in connection
with a single event or celebration.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2009; Am. Ord. passed 5-30-2018)
§ 111.003 PROCEDURE WHEN INFECTION IS SUSPECTED.
    When the regulatory authority has reasonable cause to suspect possibility
of disease transmission
form any from service establishment, retail food store, seasonal food
operation, mobile food unit, or temporary food establishment, it shall secure a
morbidity history of the suspected employee or make any other investigation as
may be indicated, and take appropriate action. The regulatory authority may
require any or all of the following measures:
   (A)   Immediate exclusion of the employee from any food handling activities.
   (B)   Immediate closure of the facility until, in the opinion of the
regulatory authority, no further danger of disease transmission exists.
   (C)   Restriction of employee's services to other areas of the facility that
do not involve the direct handling of food or food contact surfaces.
   (D)   Adequate medical and laboratory examinations of the employee or other
employees and of his, her, or their bodily discharges.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2009; Am. Ord. passed 5-30-2018)
§ 111.004 CERTIFIED FOOD PROTECTION MANAGER CLASS.
   The regulatory authority may order any food handler to immediately attend a
food handler training course accredited by the Illinois Department of Public
Health when, in the judgment of the regulatory authority, the work habits of
said food handler constitute a hazard to public health.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2009; Am. Ord. passed 5-30-2018)
§ 111.005 FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS OUTSIDE THE JURISDICTION OF THE REGULATORY
AUTHORITY.
   Food from facilities outside the jurisdiction of the regulatory authority
shall conform to the provisions of this chapter or to substantially provisions.
To determine the extent of compliance with such provisions, the regulatory
authority may accept reports from responsible authorities in other
jurisdictions where such facilities are located.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2009; Am. Ord. passed 5-30-2018)
§ 111.006 PLAN REVIEW OF FUTURE CONSTRUCTION AND OWNERSHIP CHANGES.
   When any food service establishment, retail food store, seasonal operation,
vending operation, or mobile food unit is hereafter constructed, extensively
remodeled, sold, or whenever existing structures are to be converted and
utilized as a food service operation, properly prepared plans and
specifications shall be submitted to the regulatory authority. Said plans shall
indicate layout and arrangement of the work area(s) along with product
specification sheets for all equipment to be purchased and used.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2009; Am. Ord. passed 5-30-2018)
PERMITS
§ 111.020 GENERALLY.
   No person shall operate a food service establishment, retail food store,
vending operation, seasonal food operation, or mobile food unit within the
County of DeWitt, State of Illinois, unless said person possesses a valid
permit issued by the regulatory authority. The regulatory authority shall not
issue a permit to any person who does not comply with the requirements of this
chapter. The permit holder shall not transfer said permit to any other person.
The permit shall be issued only for a particular business location and shall
not authorize operations at other business locations. The permit holder shall
post the permit in a conspicuous location in the food service establishment,
retail food store, vending operation, mobile food unit, or seasonal food
operation.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2009; Am. Ord. passed 5-30-2018) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.021 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Any person(s) desiring to obtain a permit shall apply in writing on a
form provided by the regulatory authority no less than 15 days prior to the
proposed first day of business. The application shall be completed in its
entirety prior to review by the regulatory authority. The applicant shall also
submit all required fees for obtaining a permit. Upon receipt of an application
and prior to issuing a permit, the regulatory authority shall inspect the
premises to determine compliance with this chapter and adopted rules and
regulations. If the regulatory authority determines that the applicant has
operated a food service establishment, retail food store, seasonal operation or
mobile food unit within the County of DeWitt, State of Illinois, without
possessing a valid permit, the regulatory authority shall order the person(s)
to immediately cease operations until all necessary application information has
been submitted to the regulatory authority of review. The regulatory authority
will assess an additional fee for expedited processing.
   (B)   The acceptance by the regulatory authority of said fee does not
preclude prosecution of the applicant for operation of a food service
establishment or retail food store within the County of DeWitt without
possessing a valid permit.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2009; Am. Ord. passed 5-30-2018)
§ 111.022 SUSPENSION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   The regulatory authority may suspend a permit for failure to comply
with the requirements of this chapter and the rules and regulations of the
adopted reference material stated in §
111.001. The regulatory authority shall notify the permit holder of the
suspension by delivering a notice of suspension by hand or by mail to the
business address. The regulatory authority shall provide the permit holder with
a hearing on rescission of the suspension or reinstatement of the permit, if
the permit holder requests such a hearing in writing during the period of
suspension. If not terminated sooner, the suspension shall terminate when the
suspended permit expires as provided herein.
   (B)   If the regulatory authority finds insanitary or other conditions in
the operation of permit holder's business which in the judgement of the
regulatory authority constitutes a hazard to public health, the regulatory
authority may issue a written notice to the permit holder citing such
conditions, specifying the corrective action to be taken and a time frame for
corrective action to the completed. Under such circumstances, the regulatory
authority shall suspend the permit as provided herein until corrective action
is completed.
   (C)   If the regulatory authority suspends a permit, the permit holder must
immediately surrender the suspended permit to the regulatory authority and
cease food service operations.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2009; Am. Ord. passed 5-30-2018)
§ 111.023 REINSTATEMENT OF SUSPENDED PERMITS.
   (A)   A permit holder whose permit has been suspended may at any time during
the suspension of said permit make a signed, written application for an
inspection for the purpose of reinstatement of the permit, stating his or her
opinion that the conditions leading to the suspension have been corrected.
Within 24 business hours following receipt of said request, the regulatory
authority shall inspect the premises, and shall reinstate the permit if the
permit holder is in compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   A $100 fee for permit reinstatement shall be applied to all food
service establishments required to cease food service operations. The
reinstatement fee shall be paid in full to the regulatory authority prior to
resuming operations.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2009; Am. Ord. passed 5-30-2018)
§ 111.024 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   The regulatory may permanently revoke a permit for serious or repeated
violations of this chapter, or for interference with the regulatory authority
in the performance of its duties. The regulatory authority shall notify the
permit holder of its intent to revoke the permit, stating the reason for the
action and that the permit shall be revoked at the end of five business days
following the service of the notice. Said revocation shall remain valid pending
a hearing request submitted by the permit holder in writing to the regulatory
authority within the five day period. The regulatory may suspend a permit
pending the revocation of said permit or a hearing thereon.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2009; Am. Ord. passed 5-30-2018)
§ 111.025 EXPIRATION OF PERMITS.
   Permit for food service establishments, retail food stores, vending
operations, seasonal food operations, and mobile food vendors shall be valid
from the date of issuance until the expiration date written on the permit,
unless suspended or revoked as provided herein. Prior to expiration of the
permit, the permit holder shall submit all required paperwork and fees to the
regulatory authority. If the permit holder fails to provide all required
documents and fees, the regulatory authority shall temporarily suspend
operations within the food service establishment. In such case, the permit
holder must immediately surrender the suspended or invalid permit to the
regulatory authority.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2009; Am. Ord. passed 5-30-2018)
INSPECTION PROTOCOL
§ 111.040 CLASSIFICATION.
   The regulatory authority shall determine a risk category of Category I: High
Risk; Category II: Medium Risk; or Category III: Low Risk for each food
establishment and retail food store. The regulatory authority shall at any
time, change the classification of risk for any food service establishment
based upon additional food preparation procedures observed during inspection
that were not in the original food service establishment's operational plans.
The regulatory authority shall provide written notification to the permit
holder regarding such change.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2009; Am. Ord. passed 5-30-2018)
§ 111.041 FREQUENCY OF INSPECTION.
   The regulatory authority shall routinely inspect each food service
establishment, retail food store, mobile food vendor and vending operation
located in DeWitt County at a minimum frequency in accordance with the
following schedule and shall make as many additional inspection as are
necessary for the enforcement of this chapter.
   (A)   Category I: High Risk Facilities shall receive three inspection per
calendar year. Dependent upon inspection performance and approval by the
regulatory authority, employees involved in food operation may receive a Hazard
Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) training exercise, in-service training,
or attend an education conference on food safety in lieu of a third inspection.
   (B)   Category II: Medium Risk Facilities shall receive two inspections per
calendar year. Dependent upon inspection performance and approval by the
regulatory authority, the permit holder may request an in-service training for
employees in lieu of a second inspection.
   (C)   Category III: Low Risk Facilities shall receive one inspection per
calendar year.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2009; Am. Ord. passed 5-30-2018)
§ 111.042 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The permit holder shall allow the regulatory authority, after proper
identification, to enter the food service establishment at any reasonable time,
for the purpose of conducting an inspection to determine compliance with this
chapter. The permit holder shall allow the regulatory authority to examine the
records of the permit holder to obtain information pertaining to food and
supplies purchased, received or used, and person(s) employed.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2009; Am. Ord. passed 5-30-2018)
§ 111.043 REPORT OF INSPECTION.
   Whenever the regulatory authority conducts an inspection of a facility, the
regulatory authority shall record the findings on an inspection report
equivalent to the State of Illinois Department of Public Health Food
Establishment Inspection Report. One copy of the inspection report shall be
furnished to the permit holder or designated agent of the facility. The
inspection report shall note all cited violations and set forth a status for
each food service establishment. The status for each food service establishment
is dependent on these factors:
   (A)   The severity of the violation(s) cited during the routine inspection.
   (B)   The number of continuous repeat violations. Continuous repeat
violations are defined as violations that are document and uncorrected at three
consecutive inspections.
   (C)   The number of recurring repeat violations. Recurring repeat violations
are violations that are documented at four consecutive inspections, but
corrected after each documentation or citation.
   (D)   The number of chronic violations. Chronic violations shall be defined
as violations that are the same priority or priority foundation violation
(CITE) documented in three consecutive routine inspections.
   (E)   Repeat certified food manager violations cited during inspection.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2009; Am. Ord. passed 5-30-2018)
§ 111.044 DETERMINING THE STATUS OF THE FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   At the conclusion of inspection, the status of the food service
establishment shall be determined and placed into one of the following
categories:
      (1)   No follow-up required. No uncorrected priority or priority
foundation items exist. Core violations may exist but the quantity does not
warrant enforcement review. A limited number of repeat violations were observed
during the inspection.
      (2)   Follow-up visit required. A follow-up visit shall be completed at a
date noted on the report to verify the timely correction of outstanding
priority or priority foundation violations.
      (3)   Enforcement action required. Violations observed during the routine
inspection warrant further review or enforcement action by the regulatory
authority. Enforcement action may include, but is not limited to, a follow-up
inspection, a warning letter from the regulatory authority, a scheduled formal
hearing, a completed long-term plan of action by the permit holder, or the
immediate suspension of food service operations.
      (4)   Closure. An imminent health hazard exists that poses a risk to
patrons of the food service establishment.
   (B)   It is at the discretion of the regulatory authority to establish the
severity of enforcement protocol based upon observations and violations noted
during the routine inspection.
(Ord. passed 5-30-2018)
§ 111.045 CORRECTION OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The regulatory authority shall establish a specific and reasonable
period of time for the correction of the violations found. The permit holder
shall correct the violations within the period specified in accordance with the
following provisions:
      (1)   Core violations. Violations identified as “core” in the Food and
Drug Administration Food Code. Core violations must be corrected in a time
frame agree upon by the regulatory authority but no later than the next routine
inspection.
      (2)   Priority foundation items. Violations identified as “priority
foundation” in the Food and Drug Administration Food Code. Priority foundation
violations must be corrected immediately, within five days of inspection, or
other specified time frame designated by the regulatory authority.
      (3)   Priority items. Violations identified as “priority” in the Food and
Drug Administration Food Code. Priority violations must be corrected
immediately, within 48 hours, or other time frame designated by the regulatory
authority.
   (B)   Approval of a compliance schedule that extends beyond the time limits
specified under this section may be approved by the regulatory authority so
long as no imminent health hazard exists or may result from the extension of
the compliance schedule.
   (C)   Failure to comply with any time limits for correction will require
that the permit holder immediately cease operations at the food service
establishment. The regulatory authority shall provide an opportunity for appeal
from the inspection findings if a written request for a hearing is filed with
the regulatory authority within five days of the inspection. Such hearing shall
be held within 24 business hours of request receipt.
   (D)   Whenever any permit holder is required under the provisions of this
section to cease operations, the permit holder shall not resume operations
until such time that a follow-up inspection has been made and the regulatory
authority confirms that the conditions responsible for the requirement to cease
operations no longer exist. The regulatory authority shall offer an opportunity
for a follow-up inspection within a reasonable time frame.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2009; Am. Ord. passed 5-30-2018)
TEMPORARY FOOD OPERATIONS
§ 111.060 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Temporary food operations operating within the jurisdictional boundaries of
the regulatory authority shall comply with the rules and regulations of set
forth in § 750.1600 of the Illinois Food Service Sanitation Code.
(Ord. passed 5-30-2018)
§ 111.061 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   For temporary food operations, the person(s) desiring to obtain a permit
shall apply in writing on the form provided by the regulatory authority no less
than 72-hours prior to the first day of business. Temporary food operations are
restricted to three separate events per calendar year.
(Ord. passed 5-30-2018)
§ 111.062 FREQUENCE OF INSPECTION.
   During operation, temporary food operations are subject to inspection at any
time by the regulatory authority.
(Ord. passed 5-30-2018)
§ 111.063 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Failure to comply with the rules and regulations of this chapter and §
750.1600 of the Illinois Food Service Sanitation Code may result in permit
suspension or revocation. Serious offenses may result in permanent exclusion of
operations in the County of DeWitt, State of Illinois.
(Ord. passed 5-30-2018)
HOME KITCHEN OPERATION
§ 111.075 QUALIFICATIONS FOR A HOME KITCHEN OPERATION.
   In order to qualify as a home kitchen operation, the following conditions
must be met:
   (A)   Monthly gross sales may not exceed $1,000.
   (B)   Only food that are considered not time/temperature controlled for
safety shall be sold.
   (C)   A notice is provided to the purchaser that the product was produced in
a home kitchen.
   (D)   Interested persons shall provide proof of Certified Food Protection
Manager Certification to the regulatory authority.
   (E)   Interested persons shall register with the regulatory authority prior
to operating.
(Ord. passed 5-30-2018)
§ 111.076 RIGHT OF INSPECTION.
   In the event of a complaint involving products produced in an unlicensed
home kitchen operation or upon the outbreak of a disease that may be connected
to a home kitchen operation, the regulatory authority shall have the authority
to conduct an inspection of the operation for the purpose of investigating the
complaint or outbreak. The regulatory authority shall request consent to
inspect during daytime hours. If consent is denied, the regulatory authority
shall obtain an administrative search warrant.
(Ord. passed 5-30-2018)
§ 111.077 CESSATION OF OPERATIONS WHEN AN OUTBREAK IS SUSPECTED.
   In the event of a disease outbreak, the regulatory authority shall request a
cessation of operations until the regulatory authority has completed the
investigation and determined that operations may continue. In the event that
the operation is non-compliant with the investigative process, the regulatory
authority may seek a court order for cessation of a home kitchen operation or
food sales by a religious or charitable organization.
(Ord. passed 5-30-2018)
EXAMINATION AND CONDEMNATION OF FOOD AND/OR EQUIPMENT
§ 111.090 FOOD.
   The regulatory may examine or sample food as often as may be necessary to
determine whether it is free from adulteration. The regulatory authority may,
upon written notice to the permit holder or designated agent of any food
service establishment, place a hold order on any food which the regulatory
authority determines or has probable cause to believe to be unwholesome or
otherwise adulterated. Under a hold order the permit holder shall suitably
store food subject to the hold order. It shall be unlawful for any person(s) to
move or alter a hold order notice placed on food by the regulatory authority.
Neither such food nor the containers thereof shall be used, served, relabeled,
repackaged, reprocessed, altered, disposed of, or destroyed without permission
of the regulatory authority, except by order of a court of competent
jurisdiction. On the basis of evidence produced at any hearing, or on the basis
of examination in the event that no written request for hearing has been
received within ten days of the notice placing a hold order, the regulatory
authority may vacate the hold order or may, by written order, direct the permit
holder to denature or destroy such food or bring it into compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. Such order of denaturing, destroying, or bringing
into compliance shall remain if the permit holder appeals the order to such a
court of competent jurisdiction within three days.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2009; Am. Ord. passed 5-30-2018) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.091 EQUIPMENT.
   Where the regulatory authority finds equipment used in the preparation of
food products to be in a state of disrepair, unsafe or insanitary, the
regulatory authority shall place a hold order on such equipment and the permit
holder shall take such equipment out of use. The permit holder is prohibited
from placing such unit back into service until written permission is obtained
from the regulatory authority. It shall be unlawful for any person to move or
alter a hold order notice or tag placed on equipment by the regulatory
authority. Such equipment shall not be altered, disposed of, or destroyed
without permission of the regulatory authority, except by order of a court of
competent jurisdiction. On the basis of the evidence produced at any hearing or
on the basis of examination in the event that no written request for a hearing
has been received within ten days of the notice placing a hold order, the
regulatory authority may vacate the hold order or may, by written notice,
direct the permit holder to remove such equipment or bring it into compliance
with the provisions of this chapter. Such order shall remain if the order is
appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction within three days.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2009; Am. Ord. passed 5-30-2018) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.092 PREEXISTING EQUIPMENT.
   Equipment which was installed in a food service establishment or retail food
store prior to the effective date of these rules, and which does not meet fully
all of the design and construction requirements of this section, shall be
deemed acceptable in the facility if the equipment is in a state of good
repair, capable of being maintained in a sanitary condition, and all food
contact surfaces of the unit are considered non-toxic. Such equipment shall be
so located and installed as to enable reasonable compliance with all
requirements pertaining to equipment installation, and all requirements
pertaining to food protection.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2009; Am. Ord. passed 5-30-2018)
§ 111.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any rule and
regulations adopted by reference herein, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 for
each day on which such violation occurs. In addition thereto, such person may
be enjoined from continuing such violations. The State's Attorney of DeWitt
County shall prosecute all violations of the DeWitt County Food Service
Sanitation Ordinance.
   (B)   Any permit holder that has penalty fines outstanding at the time of
annual permit renewal is subject to non-renewal of said permit until all fine
levied by the regulatory authority are settled.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2009; Am. Ord. passed 5-30-2018)
CHAPTER 112: JUNKYARDS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Permit required
   
112.03   Permit requirements
   
112.04   Securing the junkyard
   
112.05   Amortization of non-conforming junkyards
   
112.06   Declaration of nuisance
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE GRAVEYARD. Any establishment or place of business which is
maintained, used or operated for storing, keeping, buying or selling wrecked,
scrapped, ruined or dismantled motor vehicles or motor vehicle parts, or any
land or structure used for a salvaging operation, including the collecting,
dismantling, storage and salvaging of unlicensed and inoperable vehicles.
   FENCE. A substantial, totally opaque, continuous structure forming a
physical barrier which is so constructed and installed of materials designed,
engineered and/or manufactured to withstand the weather and other natural
forces normally found in the county. All FENCES shall extend from the surface
of the ground to a uniform height of not less than eight feet.
   JUNK. Old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash,
rubber debris, used tires, household appliances, waste or junked, dismantled or
wrecked automobiles, or parts thereof, iron, steel and other old or scrap
ferrous or non-ferrous material.
   JUNKYARD. An establishment or place of business which is maintained,
operated or used for storing, keeping, buying or selling junk, or for the
maintenance or operation of an automobile graveyard.
   OPERATOR. Any individual, partnership, corporation, limited liability
company or business association of whatever nature engaged in the
establishment, operation or maintenance of a junkyard.
   VISUAL SCREEN. A static barrier which shields from view a specified object
or objects. For the purposes of this chapter, the object or objects refers to
junk or junkyards.
(Ord. 03-003, passed 6-19-2003)
§ 112.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   All operators of junkyards located in the county shall, within 30 days
after the effective date of this chapter, submit to the Zoning Administrator of
the county (“Administrator”), an application for a junkyard operation permit,
as well as a $50 application fee. The Administrator, upon request, shall
provide the application. If the Administrator determines, upon inspection of
the premises subject to the application, that the premises are in compliance
with all applicable terms of this chapter, then the Administrator shall issue
the operator a junkyard operation permit. Each junkyard operation permit shall
be effective for a period of one year.
   (B)   No later than 90 days prior to the expiration of the junkyard
operation permit, the operator shall submit a re-inspection application and $50
re-inspection fee. The Administrator shall then inspect the premises, notify
the operator of any corrections that need to be made and issue the junkyard
operation permit following the completion of any required corrections.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to licensees of the Secretary of State
under Ch. 5 of the State Vehicle Code, being ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, for
activities permitted by the license.
(Ord. 03-003, passed 6-19-2003)
§ 112.03 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Prior to the issuance of a junkyard operation permit, the operator of
a junkyard must satisfy the following requirements.
      (1)   Existing junkyards. Junkyards in existence prior to the effective
date of this chapter shall be issued a junkyard operation permit if:
         (a)   The junkyard is a legal non-conforming use on the effective date
of this chapter;
         (b)   The junkyard is enclosed on all sides by a visual screen
consisting of a fence with the fence being located no closer than 25 feet from
any public right-of-way bordering the junkyard, and no closer than 15 feet from
all other property lines of the parcel or parcels of property upon which the
junkyard is located. (All initial applications for a junkyard operation permit
must be accompanied by a detailed description of the materials to be used in
construction of the fence, as well as a description of the manner in which the
fence will be installed or erected.);
         (c)   All junk in the junkyard is stacked, stored or maintained within
the screened area of the property;
         (d)   No junk is stacked, stored or maintained at a height greater
than seven feet measured from the surface of the ground, and in such a way as
to prevent the pooling of water; and
         (e)   All entrances to the junkyard are equipped with a gate or gates
of at least eight feet in height capable of being securely locked.
      (2)   New junkyards. No person who establishes a junkyard following the
effective date of this chapter shall be issued a junkyard operation permit
unless:
         (a)   The operator has acquired a special use permit to establish the
proposed junkyard in an Industrial District or a Rural Development 1 District;
         (b)   The proposed junkyard is located at least 1,000 feet from any
dwelling used as a residence, school, place of public worship, day care center,
nursing home or hospital;
         (c)   The proposed junkyard is located at least 100 feet from any
public right-of-way;
         (d)   The proposed junkyard is enclosed on all sides by a visual
screen consisting of a fence with the fence being located no closer than 25
feet from the property lines of the parcel or parcels of property upon which
the proposed junkyard is located. (All initial applications for a junkyard
operation permit must be accompanied by a detailed description of the materials
to be used in construction of the fence, as well as a description of the manner
in which the fence will be installed or erected.);
         (e)   All junk on the property of the junkyard is stacked, stored or
maintained within the screened area of the property;
         (f)   No junk is stacked, stored or maintained at a height greater
than seven feet measured from the surface of the ground; and
         (g)   All entrances to the junkyard are equipped with a gate or gates
of at least eight feet in height capable of being securely locked.
   (B)   The restrictions contained in this section are only minimum
requirements and greater restrictions may be imposed as conditions of obtaining
a special use permit.
(Ord. 03-003, passed 6-19-2003)
§ 112.04 SECURING THE JUNKYARD.
   Any fence required under the terms of this chapter must be installed,
constructed, erected and maintained in a workmanlike fashion. The gate or gates
of all junkyards shall be securely locked at all times the operator, or the
operator’s designee, is not on the premises of the junkyard.
(Ord. 03-003, passed 6-19-2003)
§ 112.05 AMORTIZATION OF NON-CONFORMING JUNKYARDS.
   (A)   Any junkyard granted a junkyard operation permit under §
112.03(A) above shall be entitled to renew its junkyard operation permit
annually unless:
      (1)   The junkyard or buildings located on the junkyard is/are destroyed
or damaged in major part, 50% or more, by fire or other casualty;
      (2)   The junkyard ceases operation for a period of 60 days or more; or
      (3)   The property’s status as a non-conforming use is extinguished or
terminated by operation of law.
   (B)   No junkyard granted a permit under §
112.03(A) shall enlarge its boundaries beyond those in existence on the
effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-003, passed 6-19-2003)
§ 112.06 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   Any junkyard established, operated or maintained in violation of this
chapter is hereby deemed a public nuisance.
(Ord. 03-003, passed 6-19-2003)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any individual or business association who causes, permits or allows any
Junkyard to be established, operated or maintained in violation of this chapter
shall be fined an amount not less than $100, nor more than $500. Each day the
violation exists shall be deemed a separate violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-003, passed 6-19-2003)
CHAPTER 113: ADULT USE BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Adult uses enumerated
Conditions and Regulations
   
113.15   General regulations of adult uses
   
113.16   Booths
   
113.17   Adult cabarets
   
113.18   Measurement of distance
   
113.19   Exterior display
   
113.20   Display of license and permit
   
113.21   Employment of persons under age of 18 prohibited
   
113.22   Illegal activities on premises
License Requirements
   
113.35   License required; filing of application; filing fee
   
113.36   Contents of license application
   
113.37   Issuance of license
   
113.38   Suspension or revocation of license
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment having as a substantial portion of its
stock in trade, books, magazines, films, records, recording tapes, video tapes
or other periodicals, for sale or for viewing either on or off the premises,
which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   ADULT DEVICE STORE. An establishment having as a substantial portion of its
stock in trade any device, appliance, instrument or object which is represented
either by the operator of the establishment or by its packaging, advertising or
other literature furnished therewith as enhancing, assisting, representing,
depicting or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas or an establishment with a segment or section devoted to the sale or
display of the material.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET. A public or private establishment which is
licensed to serve food and/or alcoholic beverages, which features entertainers,
dancers, waitresses, waiters or any other employees acting in a way as to
display, depict, describe or relate to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT MINI MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building or drive-in theater
with a capacity for less than 50 persons used for presenting material
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building or a drive-in theater
with a capacity of 50 or more persons used regularly and routinely for
presenting motion pictures having as a dominant theme material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities or special anatomical areas for observation by
patrons therein.
   BODY SHOP or MODEL STUDIO. Any public or private establishment which
describes itself as a body shop or model studio, or where for any form of
consideration or gratuity, figure models who display specified anatomical areas
are provided to be observed sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed
or similarly depicted by persons paying the consideration or gratuity or where,
for any form of consideration or gratuity, nude or semi-nude dancing, readings,
counseling sessions, body painting and other activities that present materials
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are
provided for observation by or communication to persons paying the
consideration or gratuity.
   BOOTH. Any area of an adult use set off from the remainder of the
establishment by one or more walls or other dividers or partitions and used to
show, play, or otherwise demonstrate any adults-only materials or to view any
live performance that is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the
exposure, depiction or description of specified anatomical areas or the conduct
or simulation of specified sexual activities.
   BUILDING STRUCTURE. Any structure or group of structures housing two or more
businesses which share a common entry, exit, wall or frontage wall, including,
but not limited to, shopping centers, shopping plazas or shopping squares.
   MASSAGE. Any method of pressure on or friction against or stroking,
kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulating of the external
soft parts of the body with the hands or other parts of the human body or with
the aid of any mechanical or electrical apparatus or appliance with or without
such supplementary aids as rubbing alcohol, liniments, antiseptics, oils,
powder, creams, lotions, ointments or other similar preparations commonly used
in this practice.
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment having a fixed place of business
where any person, firm, association or corporation engages in or carries on or
permits to be engaged in or carried on any of the activities mentioned in the
definition of massage of this section; provided, however, that, the term
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Hospitals, nursing homes or sanitariums;
      (2)   Barber shops or cosmetology establishments, not operated as a home
occupation as defined under the laws of the state, where a barber or
cosmetologist, holding a valid, unrevoked license or certificate of
registration issued by the state and a valid unrevoked masseur or masseuse
permit issued by the county, administers a massage in conjunction with and
incidental to the lawful performance of the barber’s or cosmetologist’s
particular profession or business; or
      (3)   Barber shops or cosmetology establishments, not operated as a home
occupation as defined under the laws of the state, where a barber or
cosmetologist, holding a valid, unrevoked license or certificate of
registration issued by the state, allows a person, holding a valid unrevoked
masseur or masseuse permit issued by the county and working under the direction
of the barber or cosmetologist, to administer a massage in conjunction with and
incidental to the lawful performance of the barber’s or cosmetologist’s
particular profession or business.
   NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or
buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering, the showing of the female
breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple, or the
showing of the covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Any of the following conditions:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         (a)   Human genitals, pubic region or pubic hair;
         (b)   Buttock; or
         (c)   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following conditions:
      (1)   The performance of acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or any sexual
acts which are prohibited by law;
      (2)   The actual or simulated touching, caressing or fondling of the
breast, buttocks, anus or genitals;
      (3)   The actual or simulated display of the breasts, buttocks, pubic
hair, anus, vulva or genitals; and/or
      (4)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any activities
set forth in divisions (1) through (3) of this definition.
(Ord. 04-002, passed 2-19-2004)
§ 113.02 ADULT USES ENUMERATED.
   The following shall be considered adult uses for the purpose of this
chapter:
   (A)   Adult book store;
   (B)   Adult motion picture theater;
   (C)   Adult mini motion picture theater;
   (D)   Adult entertainment cabaret;
   (E)   Massage establishment;
   (F)   Body shop or model studio; and
   (G)   Adult device store.
(Ord. 04-002, passed 2-19-2004)
CONDITIONS AND REGULATIONS
§ 113.15 GENERAL REGULATIONS OF ADULT USES.
   Adult uses shall be permitted subject to the following restrictions.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary, an adult
use shall not feature a person who knowingly or intentionally, in a public
place:
      (1)   Engages in sexual intercourse;
      (2)   Engages in deviate sexual conduct;
      (3)   Appears in a state of nudity; and/or
      (4)   Fondles the genitals of himself, herself or another person.
   (B)   All adult uses shall be located only in industrial districts, and
within the districts an adult use shall not be located within 1,000 feet of
another pre-existing adult use.
   (C)   An adult use shall not be located within 1,000 feet of a pre-existing
residential zone, single- or multiple-family dwelling, church, school, licensed
day-care facility or public park.
   (D)   An adult use shall not be located in a building structure which
contains another business that sells or dispenses in some manner alcoholic
beverages.
   (E)   (1)   An adult use shall be allowed to be open for business during the
hours established for liquor license holders in the county code, or any
amendments thereto, if the adult use has been issued a county liquor license.
      (2)   All other adult uses shall be open for business only between the
hours of 12:00 noon and 12:00 midnight, Monday through Saturday.
      (3)   No adult use shall be open for business at any time on Sunday.
   (F)   (1)   An adult use equipped with public restrooms shall equip the
restrooms with standard toilets, sinks and other traditional lavatory
facilities.
      (2)   No adult material or live performances shall be provided or allowed
at any time in the restrooms of any adult use.
      (3)   Separate male and female restrooms must be provided for use by
adult use patrons.
   (G)   Any adult use doing business at the time this chapter takes effect
shall have one year from the effective date hereof to comply with the
provisions of divisions (A) through (D) above.
   (H)   Any adult use doing business at the time this chapter takes effect
shall have 30 days from the effective date hereof for the issuance of an adult
use license.
(Ord. 04-002, passed 2-19-2004) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.16 BOOTHS.
   Any adult use shall be prohibited from creating or maintaining booths,
except as follows.
   (A)   Only one individual shall occupy a booth at any one time. No
individual occupying a booth shall engage in any specified sexual activities.
No individual shall damage or deface any portion of a booth.
   (B)   All booths shall be physically arranged in a manner that the entire
interior portion of each booth shall be visible from the common area of the
adult use. To satisfy this requirement, there shall be a permanently open and
unobstructed entranceway for each booth and for the entranceway from the area
of the adult use that provides access to the booths. Each of the entranceways
shall not be capable of being closed or obstructed, entirely or partially, by
any door, curtain, partition, drapes or any other obstruction whatsoever that
would be capable of wholly or partially obscuring the area of the adult use
containing the booths or any person situated in a booth. It shall be unlawful
to install booths within an adult use for the purpose of providing secluded
viewing of adult material or live performances.
   (C)   There shall be one continuous lighted main aisle along side the booths
provided in any adult use. Each person situated in a booth shall be visible at
all times from the aisle.
   (D)   Except for the open booth entranceway, the walls and partitions of
each booth shall be constructed and maintained of solid walls or partitions
without any holes or openings whatsoever.
   (E)   A sign must be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the entraceway
to each booth that states:
      (1)   Only one person is allowed in a booth at any one time;
      (2)   It is unlawful to engage in any specified sexual activities while
in a booth; and
      (3)   It is unlawful to damage or deface any portion of a booth.
(Ord. 04-002, passed 2-19-2004) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.17 ADULT CABARETS.
   (A)   The performance area of an adult cabaret shall be limited to one or
more stages or platforms permanently anchored to the floor (“cabaret stage”).
Each cabaret stage shall be at least 18 inches in elevation above the level of
the patron seating areas. Each cabaret stage shall be separated by a distance
of at lease ten feet from all areas of the premises to which adult use patrons
have access. A continuous barrier at least three feet in height and located at
least ten feet from all points of each cabaret stage shall separate each
cabaret stage from all patron seating areas. The barrier shall consist of
horizontal or vertical members spaced no more than nine inches apart and nine
inches from the floor or the walls to which it is attached.
   (B)   Sufficient lighting shall be provided and equally distributed
throughout the public areas of the adult cabaret so that all objects are
plainly visible at all times. A minimum lighting level of not less than 30 lux
horizontal, measured at 30 inches from the floor and on ten-foot centers shall
be maintained at all times for all areas of the adult cabaret where patrons are
admitted.
   (C)   (1)   No tip or gratuity from any patron may be offered or accepted
for any performance by an employee on any cabaret stage at any time prior to
the completion of any such performance.
      (2)   No patron shall offer, and no employee having performed on any
cabaret stage shall accept, any form of tip or gratuity offered directly to the
employee by any patron.
      (3)   Rather, following completion of a performance, all tips and
gratuities to employees performing on any cabaret stage shall be placed into a
receptacle provided for receipt of the tips and gratuities by the adult use.
   (D)   A sign at least two feet by two feet, with letters at least one-inch
high shall be conspicuously displayed on or adjacent to every cabaret stage
stating the following:
 
This adult cabaret is regulated by the County of DeWitt. Entertainers are:
a.   Not permitted to engage in any type of sexual conduct;
b.   Not permitted to appear in a state of nudity;
c.   Not permitted to accept tips or gratuities for any performance until after
completion of the performance;
d.   Not permitted to accept any tips or gratuities directly from patrons even
after completion of the performance. Any such tips must be placed into the
receptacle provided by management.
 
 
(Ord. 04-002, passed 2-19-2004) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.18 MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCE.
   For the purposes of this chapter, measurements shall be made in a straight
line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the property
line of the lot or parcel containing the adult use to the property line of the
lot or parcel containing the nearest adult use, school, place of worship or
district zoned for residential use.
(Ord. 04-002, passed 2-19-2004)
§ 113.19 EXTERIOR DISPLAY.
   No adult use shall be conducted in any manner that permits the observation
of any material depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas by display, decoration, sign, show
window or other opening from any public way or from any property not registered
in the license as the location where the adult use is to be operated.
(Ord. 04-002, passed 2-19-2004) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.20 DISPLAY OF LICENSE AND PERMIT.
   Every licensee shall display a valid license in a conspicuous place within
the premises where the adult use is operated so that same may be readily seen
by persons entering the premises.
(Ord. 04-002, passed 2-19-2004) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.21 EMPLOYMENT OF PERSONS UNDER AGE OF 18 PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any adult use licensee or his or her manager or
employee to employ in any capacity within the adult business any person who is
not at least 18 years of age.
(Ord. 04-002, passed 2-19-2004) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.22 ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES ON PREMISES.
   No licensee or any officer, associate, member, representative, agent or
employee of the licensee shall engage in any activity or conduct or permit any
other person to engage in any activity or conduct in or about the licensed
premises which is prohibited by an ordinance of the county or laws of the state
or of the United States.
(Ord. 04-002, passed 2-19-2004) Penalty, see §
113.99
LICENSE REQUIREMENTS
§ 113.35 LICENSE REQUIRED; FILING OF APPLICATION; FILING FEE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct or carry on,
or to permit to be engaged in, conducted or carried on, in or upon any premises
in the county, the operation of an adult use as herein defined without first
having obtained a separate license for the adult use from the Board.
   (B)   Every applicant for a license to maintain, operate or conduct an adult
use shall file an application in duplicate under oath with the Board upon a
form provided by the County Clerk and pay a non-refundable filing fee of $100
to the County Clerk, who shall issue a receipt which shall be attached to the
application filed with the Board.
   (C)   (1)   Within 30 days after receiving the application, the Board shall
notify the applicant that his or her application is granted, denied or held for
further investigation.
      (2)   The additional investigation shall not exceed an additional 30 days
unless otherwise agreed to by the applicant.
      (3)   Upon the conclusion of the additional investigation, the Board
shall advise the applicant in writing whether the application is granted or
denied.
   (D)   Whenever an application is denied or held for further investigation,
the Board shall advise the applicant in writing of the reasons for the action.
   (E)   Failure or refusal of the applicant to give any information relevant
to the investigation of the application or his or her refusal or failure to
appear at any reasonable time and place for examination under oath regarding
the application, or his or her refusal to submit to or cooperate with any
inspection or investigation required by this chapter, shall constitute an
admission by the applicant that he or she is ineligible for the permit and
shall be grounds for denial thereof by the Board.
(Ord. 04-002, passed 2-19-2004) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.36 CONTENTS OF LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   The term APPLICANT, as used in this chapter, shall include any partner
or limited partner of a partnership applicant and any officer or director of a
corporate applicant and any stockholder holding more than 10% of the stock of a
corporate applicant, or any other person who is interested directly in the
ownership or operation of the business. An applicant for a license shall
furnish the following information under oath:
      (1)   Name, including aliases used in the last five years and address;
      (2)   Written proof that the individual is at least 18 years of age; and
      (3)   Location of where the adult business is to be operated, as well as
a diagram setting forth the interior floor layout of the adult business.
   (B)   Furthermore, all applicants for an adult use license shall submit to a
criminal background investigation by the County Sheriff’s Department and, any
applicant convicted of or who pleads nolo contendere to any of the following
criminal acts shall be ineligible to receive an adult use license:
      (1)   Article II of the State Criminal Code (“ICC”) (sex offenses);
      (2)   ICC § 26-4, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 26-4 (unauthorized video
taping);
      (3)   ICC § 33D-1, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12C-30 (contributing to the
delinquency or criminal delinquency of a minor);
      (4)   The Obscene Phone Call Act, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 135, §§ 0.01 et seq.;
      (5)   The Wrongs to Children Act, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 150, §§ 0.01 et seq.;
and
      (6)   The Sale of Immoral Publications to Children Act, ILCS Ch. 720, Act
670, §§ 0.01 et seq.
(Ord. 04-002, passed 2-19-2004)
§ 113.37 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Board shall issue a license to maintain, operate or conduct an
adult use unless it finds:
      (1)   That the applicant is under the age of 18 years or under any legal
disability;
      (2)   The location where the adult business is proposed to be operated
does not comply with the limitations set forth in §
113.15; or
      (3)   The applicant has been convicted of or pleaded nolo contendere to
any of the criminal offenses listed in §
113.36.
   (B)   Every adult use license issued pursuant to this chapter will terminate
at the expiration of one year from the date of its issuance, unless sooner
revoked.
(Ord. 04-002, passed 2-19-2004)
§ 113.38 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Any license issued for an adult use may be revoked or suspended by the
Board if the Board shall find:
      (1)   The licensee has violated any of the provisions of this chapter
regulating adult uses;
      (2)   The licensee has knowingly furnished false or misleading
information or withheld relevant information on any application for any license
or permit required by this chapter or knowingly caused or suffered another to
furnish or withhold the information on his or her behalf; or
      (3)   The applicant has been convicted of or pleaded nolo contendere to
any of the criminal offenses listed in §
113.36.
   (B)   The licensee shall be responsible for the acts of his or her agents,
servants and employees; provided, however, that, in the case of a first offense
by a licensee where the conduct was solely that of an employee, the penalty
shall not exceed a suspension of 30 days if the Board shall find that the
licensee had no actual or constructive knowledge of the violation and could not
by the exercise of due diligence have had the actual or constructive knowledge.
   (C)   The Board, before revoking or suspending any license, shall give the
licensee at least ten days’ written notice of the charges against him or her.
The licensee may, within five days of receipt of the notice, request a public
hearing before the Board, at which time the licensee may present evidence
bearing upon the question. Any notice by the Board may be delivered personally
to the licensee or be posted on the premises where the adult use is located.
(Ord. 04-002, passed 2-19-2004)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of creating a nuisance. A person who is convicted shall be punished by a
fine of not less than $100, nor more than $500.
(Ord. 04-002, passed 2-19-2004)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
[Reserved]
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   ROAD NAMING; ADDRESSING SYSTEM
      
151.   PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
      
152.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
153.   COMMERCIAL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION
      
154.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
155.   ZONING
      
156.   POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITIES
      
157.   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
CHAPTER 150: ROAD NAMING; ADDRESSING SYSTEM
Section
   
150.01   Short title and authority
   
150.02   Definitions
   
150.03   Establishment of road names for existing roads and addresses for
existing sites
   
150.04   Maintenance of database of road names and site addresses
   
150.05   Assignment of road names to new or unnamed roads and assignment of
addresses to new or previously unaddressed sites
   
150.06   Changes to existing primary address numbers
   
150.07   Changes to existing road names
   
150.08   Rural reference numbers
   
150.09   Road names
   
150.10   Site addresses
   
150.11   Accurate rural reference and road name signs
   
150.12   Proper site address number display requirements
   
150.13   Effective date
§ 150.01 SHORT TITLE AND AUTHORITY.
   This chapter shall be known as the “DeWitt County Road Naming and Site
Addressing Ordinance” and is adopted under the authority of the statutes of the
state that permit counties of the state to name roads and assign addresses,
namely, ILCS Ch. 55, Act 5, § 5-1067, as follows.
   (A)   A county board may name or may change the name of any street, lane,
road or highway and may regulate the numbering of buildings and lots adjacent
to any street, lane, road or highway in the unincorporated area of the county.
   (B)   In counties under 1,000,000 population, a county board may name or
change the name of any road in the county highway system or any trail under its
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 07-10, passed 4-19-2007)
§ 150.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIRECTIONAL. Any of the eight basic compass directions, abbreviated as
follows: N, S, E, W, NE, NW, SE or SW. If a predirectional is used, it is the
first element of a road name. If a post directional is used, it is the last
element of a road name. Compass directions that occur in any of the first or
last positions in a road name are actually components of the root road name.
   ETSB. The Emergency Telephone System Board of the county.
   PRIMARY ADDRESS NUMBER. The number assigned to a particular structure or
property.
   ROAD NAME. The full name of a road, which includes the following elements: a
root road name, a suffix and, in some cases, a directional.
   ROOT ROAD NAME. All parts of a road name, except the suffix and, where
applicable, the predirectional and/or post directional. Components of the ROOT
ROAD NAME, including compass directions and road types that are part of the
root, are never abbreviated. Numeric root names are an exception; they are
always presented as numeric abbreviations, except when they must be spelled out
to distinguish from nearby roads with duplicate names.
   SECONDARY ADDRESS UNIT. A designation of a particular subunit with a
structure identified by a primary address number and road name. The SECONDARY
ADDRESS UNIT consists of a designator presented as a standard abbreviation
followed by a secondary address range of alphanumeric characters.
   SITE ADDRESS. All elements necessary to identify a location in the
unincorporated county; a site address consists of a primary address number, a
road name and, in some cases, a secondary address unit.
   SUFFIX. A road type presented as a standard abbreviation following the root
road name. If a post directional is used, the SUFFIX directly precedes the post
directional; otherwise, the SUFFIX is the last element of the road name. Road
types that occur in any other position are actually components of the root road
name.
(Ord. 07-10, passed 4-19-2007)
§ 150.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF ROAD NAMES FOR EXISTING ROADS AND ADDRESSES FOR
EXISTING SITES.
   The existing roads in the unincorporated area of the county shall be named
in accordance with the names assigned to the respective representation of those
roads shown on the map of the county attached hereto and made a part hereof.
The original of this chapter, which includes the original map, shall be kept in
the office of the County Clerk and Recorder. The existing sites in the
unincorporated area of the county shall be addressed in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 07-10, passed 4-19-2007)
§ 150.04 MAINTENANCE OF DATABASE OF ROAD NAMES AND SITE ADDRESSES.
   (A)   A digital database and digital map which accurately reflects the road
names and site addresses as established herein and which accurately reflects
the changes thereto shall be maintained by the county. The road names as
established herein and the changes thereto shall be maintained by the office of
the County Assessor. The site addresses as established herein and the changes
thereto shall be maintained by the County Zoning Office. A separate digital
database and digital map which accurately reflects the road names and addresses
as established herein and which accurately reflects the changes thereto shall
be maintained by the ETSB. Changes to these digital databases and maps shall
occur as contained herein. Annual reconciling of the two databases and maps
shall be performed and discrepancies shall be resolved to benefit their
respective accuracies. Reconciliation of site addresses within the databases
shall be carried out by printing from each database a list of sequential
addresses by road name.
   (B)   The County Zoning Officer and the 911 Administrator shall compare the
resulting two lists for discrepancies. Discrepancies shall be resolved by
establishing an accurate site address for each discrepancy and replacing the
discrepant data with the accurate data as applicable. Where a correction would
result in a change of address, the change of address shall be handled as
provided for in the applicable portion of this chapter.
(Ord. 07-10, passed 4-19-2007)
§ 150.05 ASSIGNMENT OF ROAD NAMES TO NEW OR UNNAMED ROADS AND ASSIGNMENT OF
ADDRESSES TO NEW OR PREVIOUSLY UNADDRESSED SITES.
   The assignment of road names to new or unnamed roads and the assignment of
addresses to new or previously unaddressed sites in the unincorporated area of
the county shall occur in accordance with the following.
   (A)   The County Zoning Officer shall review each application for permit and
each plat for subdivision proposal and verify that the road names and site
addresses as shown thereon meet the requirements of this chapter and have been
entered into the county digital database.
   (B)   The County Zoning Officer shall forward to the 911 Administrator a
copy of all applicable portions of applications for permit or subdivision
proposals regarding proposed improvements of previously undeveloped sites in
the unincorporated area of the county.
   (C)   The 911 Administrator shall review each application for permit and
each plat for subdivision proposal and shall notify the County Zoning Officer
in writing that the road names and site addresses as shown thereon meet the
requirements of this chapter and have been entered into the ETSB digital
database.
   (D)   The County Engineer shall direct those proposing to layout roads to
the 911 Administrator and to the County Zoning Officer for their respective
written and signed verifications on the face of the applicable final hearing
plat that the road names and site addresses as shown thereon meet the
requirements of this chapter and have been entered into the respective ETSB and
county databases. The County Engineer shall present all plats to the County
Board for action on naming of the roads at the time that the applicable road
has been laid out.
   (E)   The County Board shall act on all other issues involving proposed road
names only after the applicable document showing the proposed road name is
presented which bears on its face a signed verification by the 911
Administrator and by the County Zoning Officer that the road names and site
addresses as shown thereon meet the requirements of this chapter and have been
entered into the respective ETSB and county databases.
   (F)   The approval by the County Board of a final plat involving proposed
road names constitutes the approval of the road name.
   (G)   The verification as specified herein by both the 911 Administrator and
the County Zoning Officer that the addresses meet the requirements of this
chapter and have been entered into the respective ETSB and county databases
constitutes the approval of the site addresses.
(Ord. 07-10, passed 4-19-2007)
§ 150.06 CHANGES TO EXISTING PRIMARY ADDRESS NUMBERS.
   (A)   Changes to primary address numbers in the unincorporated area of the
county shall only be made when the proposed change will result in existing
primary address numbers that are more consistent with this chapter.
   (B)   Changes to primary address numbers shall only be considered when any
of the following conditions exist:
      (1)   The existing range of numbers overlaps a range of numbers on a road
in the unincorporated area of the county or a street in an incorporated area of
the county that has an identical or phonetically similar name;
      (2)   Old primary address numbers are no longer applicable due to
redevelopment;
      (3)   The existing numbers are assigned in a manner that hinders the
ability to promptly locate a property or structure based on its assigned
address; and/or
      (4)   A new rural reference number is assigned to a new or previously
unassigned road intersection within the unincorporated area of the county which
does not fit within the existing range of numbers.
   (C)   Changes to existing primary address numbers in the unincorporated area
of the county shall occur in accordance with the following.
      (1)   The 911 Administrator shall verify that the proposed primary
address numbers are more consistent with this chapter than the existing primary
address numbers and that the change is in the best interest of the public.
      (2)   The 911 Administrator shall forward the proposed primary address
numbers to the County Zoning Office.
      (3)   The County Zoning Officer shall verify that the proposed primary
address numbers are more consistent with this chapter than the existing primary
address numbers and that the change is in the best interest of the public.
      (4)   The County Zoning Officer, upon verifying as specified herein,
shall notify the 911 Administrator of the verification and both the 911
Administrator and the County Zoning Officer shall replace the existing primary
address numbers with the proposed primary address numbers in the respective
ETSB and county databases which shall constitute approval of the new primary
address numbers.
      (5)   Should disagreement exist between the 911 Administrator and the
County Zoning Officer regarding the verification of a proposed change to
existing primary addresses, the matter should be forwarded to the County Board
for its action.
   (D)   The 911 Administrator shall give written notice of a change in primary
address numbers to the owners or occupants of the affected properties or
buildings. The notice shall contain the new primary address number and shall
direct the owners or occupants to post the newly assigned number in a manner
that complies with the provisions of the address number display instructions of
this chapter. The notice shall contain an explanation of the importance of
displaying accurate primary address numbers, shall include a copy of the
address number display instructions and shall inform the owners that they have
a grace period of 90 days to post the newly assigned numbers. Failure to post
newly assigned numbers within the 90-day grace period shall constitute a
violation of this chapter and shall be punishable according to the provisions
herein.
(Ord. 07-10, passed 4-19-2007)
§ 150.07 CHANGES TO EXISTING ROAD NAMES.
   (A)   The County Board shall only consider applications for changes to a
road name which are based on one or more of the following conditions:
      (1)   A road is unnamed;
      (2)   A road name is identical or phonetically similar to one or more
other road or street names within the unincorporated area of the county;
      (3)   A road name is identical or phonetically similar to one or more
other street names within the incorporated area of the county requiring
coordinated addressing and the ranges of address numbers on these streets
overlap or are likely to overlap with continued growth, and the elimination of
these overlaps through renumbering is impractical or infeasible;
      (4)   A road name is identical or phonetically similar to one or more
other road or street names within the unincorporated area or incorporated area
of the county and the unique ranges of address numbers are insufficient to
mitigate the negative impacts on public health, safety, general welfare and
convenience;
      (5)   A contiguous street bears more than one name along a course; and/or
      (6)   The proposed change is demonstrated to be in the best interest of
the public.
   (B)   Petitions for road name changes may be submitted in writing to the
County Zoning Office by anyone owning property on the road that is proposed to
be renamed.
      (1)   A petition for a road name change must contain all of the
following:
         (a)   A plat of survey showing the exact location and termini of the
subject road;
         (b)   A map showing the locations and correct names of all roads
within a one-mile radius of the proposed change;
         (c)   A request and explanation, based on this section, of why the
change should be considered;
         (d)   Addresses and signatures of all property owners and residents on
the subject road; and
         (e)   Written and signed verification by the 911 Administrator on the
face of the applicable petition that the proposed road name and site addresses
as shown thereon meet the requirements of this chapter and that the proposed
change is in the best interest of the public.
      (2)   Changes to existing road names in the unincorporated area of the
county shall occur in accordance with the following:
         (a)   Petitions meeting the requirements herein shall be presented to
the County Zoning Office;
         (b)   The County Zoning Officer or the 911 Administrator may also
prepare a petition meeting the requirements herein;
         (c)   The County Zoning Officer shall review the petitions and verify
that the proposed road name and site addresses as shown thereon meet the
requirements of this chapter and that the proposed change is in the best
interest of the public; and
         (d)   The property owner, County Zoning Officer or 911 Administrator
shall present the petition, as the applicable petitioner, to the County Board
for its action.
   (C)   The County Zoning Officer shall notify the County Highway Department,
the 911 Administrator and the United States Post Office of all road name
changes and both the 911 Administrator and the County Zoning Officer shall
replace all affected existing road and address information with the proposed
road and address information in the respective ETSB and county databases. The
911 Administrator shall give written notice of a change in address due to a
change in road name to the property owners and residents on the subject road.
The notice shall contain the new road name and site address and shall contain
an explanation of the importance of using the new road name.
(Ord. 07-10, passed 4-19-2007)
§ 150.08 RURAL REFERENCE NUMBERS.
   The rural reference numbers assigned to the intersection of public roads in
the unincorporated area of the county shall continue to be maintained by the
County Highway Department. Assignment of new rural reference numbers or the
proposed change of existing rural reference numbers shall only occur upon the
approval of the County Engineer, the County Zoning Officer and the 911
Administrator.
(Ord. 07-10, passed 4-19-2007)
§ 150.09 ROAD NAMES.
   Road names for roads and streets in the unincorporated area of the county
shall adhere to the following requirements.
   (A)   The root road name shall be spelled and pronounced differently than
any other road name in any part of the county, including street names within
the incorporated area of the county, except where there is a minimum of 20
miles between the closest point of the new or unnamed road and a road or street
with an identical or phonetically similar root name.
   (B)   The range of primary address numbers that could be assigned to the new
or unnamed road shall not overlap the range of primary address numbers that
could be assigned to any other road or street within the unincorporated area or
incorporated area of the county that has an identical or phonetically similar
name.
   (C)   The road name shall contain a root road name followed by a suffix.
   (D)   The road name shall contain, at maximum, one directional.
   (E)   The root road name shall contain no road types.
   (F)   The root road name shall not comprise a surname or name of a person.
   (G)   The root road name shall not comprise a cardinal or ordinal number
unless used to identify a state highway.
   (H)   The root road name shall not be pronounced the same as a cardinal or
ordinal number unless used to identify a state highway.
(Ord. 07-10, passed 4-19-2007)
§ 150.10 SITE ADDRESSES.
   (A)   Addresses for sites in the unincorporated area of the county shall be
governed by the rural reference system. The historical four-digit rural
reference system wherein each section of land, as laid out by the public lands
survey system, was assigned the dimensions of 100 units by 100 units shall be
converted to a five-digit number system by the County Highway Department
wherein each section of land shall be assigned the dimensions of 1,000 units by
1,000 units.
   (B)   Addresses for sites shall be determined as follows.
      (1)   A determination shall be made as to which road the site has vehicle
access.
      (2)   The point at which the vehicle access for the site intersects or
abuts the road shall be considered the site for the primary address number
purposes herein.
      (3)   The orientation of the road as either an east-west road or a north-
south road shall be established as follows.
         (a)   A determination shall be made as to the most southwesterly
terminus and the most northeasterly terminus of the road.
         (b)   The total west to east distance between the termini of the road
shall be compared to the total south to north distance between the termini.
         (c)   The direction covering the greater distance shall be the
orientation of the road.
      (4)   The pro rata distance along the centerline of the road for the site
along or within the section of land in which the site is located shall be
determined as follows.
         (a)   Control Point A shall be determined as a point on the road which
when traveling from the site toward the most southwesterly terminus of the road
is the nearer of:
            1.   East-west roads. The point where the road crosses the nearest
section line to the west; or the point where the road intersects the nearest
road to the west; and
            2.   North-south roads. The point where the road crosses the
nearest section line to the south; or the point where the road intersects the
nearest road to the south.
         (b)   Control Point B shall be determined as a point on the road which
when traveling from the site toward the most northeasterly terminus of the road
is the nearer of:
            1.   East-west roads. The point where the road crosses the nearest
section line to the east; or the point where the road intersects the nearest
road to the east; and
            2.   North-south roads. The point where the road crosses the
nearest section line to the north; or the point where the road intersects the
nearest road to the north.
         (c)   The distance along the centerline of the road from Control Point
A to the site shall be divided by the distance along the centerline of the road
from the Control Point A to Control Point B, which ratio shall be the pro rata
distance of the site.
      (5)   The difference between the rural reference numbers for Control
Points A and B shall be calculated as follows:
         (a)   East-west roads. The east coordinate of the rural reference
number for Control Point A shall be subtracted from that of Control Point B;
and
         (b)   North-south roads. The north coordinate of the rural reference
number for Control Point A shall be subtracted from that of Control Point B.
      (6)   The ratio of the pro rata site distance determined in division (B)
(4) above shall be multiplied by the rural reference number differential
determined in division (B)(5) above.
      (7)   The result of the calculation in division (B)(6) above shall be
added to:
         (a)   East-west roads. The east coordinate of the rural reference
number for Control Point A; and
         (b)   North-south roads. The north coordinate of the rural reference
number for Control Point A.
      (8)   The result of the calculation in division (B)(7) above shall be
rounded up or down as necessary to achieve a whole number that is a unique,
five-digit primary address number for the road which meets the following
requirements.
         (a)   Even primary address numbers shall be assigned on the right side
of the road traveling from the southwesterly terminus to the northeasterly
terminus of the road, which is also the south and east side of the road.
         (b)   Odd primary address numbers shall be assigned on the left side
of the road traveling from the southwesterly terminus to the northeasterly
terminus of the road, which is also the north and west side of the road.
      (9)   The primary address number obtained in division (B)(8) above shall
be placed immediately before the road name resulting in a unique site address
in the unincorporated area of the county.
(Ord. 07-10, passed 4-19-2007)
§ 150.11 ACCURATE RURAL REFERENCE AND ROAD NAME SIGNS.
   (A)   Signs reflecting the rural reference numbers and road names in the
unincorporated area of the county shall be erected and maintained at each
intersection of roads in the unincorporated area of the county. The initial
cost of materials needed to install or upgrade a sign installation in the
county due to the adoption of this chapter or due to the carrying out of any of
the provisions it contains shall be borne by ETSB. The standards for sign
installation and the applicable materials shall be maintained by the County
Highway Department. The County Highway Department shall coordinate with all
other applicable highway authorities to ensure proper sign installation in
cases where it is necessary to change a sign installation due to the adoption
of this chapter or due to the carrying out of any of the provisions it
contains.
   (B)   The rural reference and road name sign installations shall meet the
following minimum criteria.
      (1)   A sign or signs shall be visible at every road intersection in the
unincorporated area of the county.
      (2)   The rural reference number shall appear above the road name.
      (3)   All components of the road names, including directionals and
suffixes shall be visible on the signs.
      (4)   The road name shall be displayed identically on all signs along the
course of a given road.
      (5)   The road name displayed on the signs along the course of a given
road shall be an accurate representation of the actual road name as recorded in
the county database and the ETSB database.
      (6)   The face of the sign shall parallel the road to which the
information applies.
   (C)   Discrepancies between existing sign installations and the minimum
criteria listed herein shall be reported to the County Highway Department. The
County Highway Department shall coordinate with the respective highway
authorities for corrective action of all reported discrepancies.
(Ord. 07-10, passed 4-19-2007)
§ 150.12 PROPER SITE ADDRESS NUMBER DISPLAY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It is recommended that all owners of improved residential, commercial,
industrial and governmental (local, state and federal) properties shall post
the respective site address numbers, as assigned by the county, in accordance
with the provisions herein. All previous address numbers shall be removed in
their entirety.
   (B)   The signs shall not be any longer than the area of address numbers
with a maximum four-inch perimeter around the address numbers. The address
numbers shall not be subject to the county’s sign regulations. No sign supports
or any other item shall be erected within the road right-of-way without the
express written permission of the respective highway authority.
   (C)   All address numbers shall be permanently affixed and shall be clearly
visible from the road upon which the site has vehicle access, free of current
and future temporary and permanent visual obstructions.
   (D)   Address numbers shall be posted upon planes that are perpendicular to
the road upon which the site has vehicle access and the site address numbers
shall be visible from both directions of travel upon the road.
   (E)   Address numbers shall be posted within 20 feet of the road right-of-
way and within 20 feet of the vehicle access for the site.
   (F)   Address numbers shall be posted between 30 inches and 48 inches above
grade.
   (G)   The minimum height of each address number digit shall be four inches
and the maximum height of each address number digit shall be 12 inches.
   (H)   All numbers constituting an address number shall be uniform in height
and style.
   (I)   All address number digits shall be whole Arabic numerals only. No
fractions or decimals shall be allowed. They shall be devoid of serifs and
other ornamentation as would cause illegibility. Script, Roman numerals and
other forms of numbers shall not be acceptable.
   (J)   Address numbers shall be reflective, shall be white in color and shall
be permanently affixed to a less reflective red background.
   (K)   Address numbers on mailboxes which do not meet the provisions herein
shall not be sufficient address number identification to comply with this
chapter.
   (L)   With subdivision of an addressed property (apartments, offices, suites
and the like), each subdivision shall have its own address number identifier
clearly and permanently affixed at or near its main entrance. All structures
with multiple living or business subdivisions shall only be addressed using
whole Arabic numbers. Structures which are subdivided into multiple business or
living units shall be assigned and display individual whole Arabic address
numbers for each subunit. The use of secondary addressing (i.e., “1/2”, front,
rear, upper, lower, A, B, C and the like) is not allowed.
(Ord. 07-10, passed 4-19-2007)
§ 150.13 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   A certified copy of this chapter shall be filed in the Office of the
Secretary of the County Board within ten days after enactment, and this chapter
shall take effect upon receipt of official acknowledgment from that office that
the ordinance has been filed. This chapter shall be in full force and in effect
from and after its passage, approval and publication as required by law.
(Ord. 07-10, passed 4-19-2007)
CHAPTER 151: PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Approval of maps, plats and subdivisions
   
151.02   Fees for approval of maps, plats or subdivisions
Comprehensive Plan
   
151.15   Adoption by reference
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 APPROVAL OF MAPS, PLATS AND SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   The County Board shall require that all maps, plats and subdivisions
shall fully comply with all applicable federal, state and local rules and
regulations.
   (B)   All maps, plats and subdivisions shall be reviewed and approved by the
Administrator of the County Department of Planning and Zoning.
   (C)   Before any map or plat is recorded by the County Recorder, there shall
be affixed to its face the signature of the Administrator together with the
date of the approval or, in his or her absence, the Chairperson of the Land Use
and Development Committee or the Chairperson of the County Board.
   (D)   Before any subdivision plat is recorded by the Recorder, there shall
be affixed to its face the signature of the Chairperson of the County Board
together with the date of the approval, and the signature of the village
president or city mayor if the subdivision involved land within one and one-
half miles of the corporate limits of any village or city having in effect
rules and regulations concerning the subdivision of land.
(Prior Code, § 150.01) (Res. passed 5-11-1989)
§ 151.02 FEES FOR APPROVAL OF MAPS, PLATS OR SUBDIVISIONS.
   The fees for each lot, sublot or tract of land shown upon any map, plat or
subdivision approved by the County Board shall be $5; provided, the fee for any
map, plat or subdivision so approved shall not be less than $10. The fees
herein authorized are to be paid into the General Corporation Fund of the
county by the party desiring to have the plat approved.
(Prior Code, § 150.02) (Res. passed 10-9-1973)
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
§ 151.15 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The county’s comprehensive plan, which is attached to a resolution adopted
and passed on 1-13-1994, is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference in its
entirety as if fully set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 150.15) (Res. passed 10-13-1983; Res. passed 2-17-1994)
CHAPTER 152: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Duties of the responsible official
   
152.04   Development permit
   
152.05   Variances
   
152.06   Disclaimer of liability
   
152.07   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.08   Effective date
Reduction of Flood Hazard
   
152.20   Base flood elevation
   
152.21   Preventing increased flood heights and resulting damages
   
152.22   Protecting buildings
   
152.23   Subdivision requirements
   
152.24   Public health and other standards
   
152.25   Carrying capacity and notification
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the Board
in order to accomplish the following purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
   (C)   To promote and protect the public health, safety and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (G)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and storm water impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development.
(Ord. 07-18, passed 10-18-2007)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-YEAR FLOOD. The base
flood elevation at any location is as defined in §
152.20.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally above ground, including manufactured homes,
prefabricated buildings and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than 180
days per year.
   CRITICAL FACILITY.
      (1)   Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare of the
population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the disaster.
Damage to these CRITICAL FACILITIES can impact the delivery of vital services,
can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can put special
populations at risk.
      (2)   Examples of CRITICAL FACILITIES where flood protection should be
required include: emergency services facilities (such as fire and police
stations), schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care facilities,
major roads and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone switching stations
or electrical transformers, and hazardous material storage facilities
(chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
         (a)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building or any structural alteration to a building;
         (b)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         (c)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site
for a manufactured home or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than
180 days per year;
         (d)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
culverts or similar projects;
         (e)   Construction or erection of levees, dams walls or fences;
         (f)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving
or other alterations of the ground surface; and
         (g)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks, and channel modifications or any other activity that might
change the direction, height or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include routine maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities, resurfacing roads or gardening, plowing and similar
practices that do not involve filling, grading or construction of levees.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. A map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This MAP includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The elevation of the base flood, plus
three feet of freeboard, at any given location in the floodplain.
   FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). These two terms are
synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction of the county that are subject
to inundation by the base flood. The FLOODPLAINS of the county are generally
identified as such on panel number(s) 17039CINDOA, 17039C0025E, 17039C0050E,
17039C0075E, 17039CC0100E, 17039C0120E, 17039C0140E, 17039C0175E, 17039C0200E,
17039C0215E, 17039C0220E, 17039CD225E, 17039C0230E, 17039C0235E, 17039C0240E,
17039C0245E, 17039C0255E, 17039C0260E, 17039C0265E, 17039C0280E, 17039C0325E,
17039C0350E, 17039C0375E, 17039C0400E, 17039C0425E of the countywide Flood
Insurance Rate Map of the county prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and dated 11-2-2007. FLOODPLAIN also includes those areas of known
flooding as identified by the county.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural or non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
   FLOODWAY. The portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The floodway shall be as delineated on the countywide Flood
Insurance Rate Map of the county prepared by FEMA and dated 11-2-2007. The
FLOODWAYS for each of the remaining floodplains of the county shall be
according to the best data available from the federal, state or other sources.
   FREEBOARD. An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily
determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by
the State Historic Preservation Agency; and
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that
has been certified by the State Historic Preservation Agency.
   IDNR/OWR. Illinois Department of Natural Resources/Office of Water
Resources.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that, the
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of §
152.22.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, that
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements of the structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
   NFIP. National Flood Insurance Program.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less in size; and
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the market
value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SFHA. See definition of FLOODPLAIN.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the building permit was issued. This, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START
means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation or placement
of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a substantial improvement, actual
START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. See BUILDING.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cumulative percentage of damage subsequent to the adoption of this chapter
equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and
materials must be included in this determination. The term includes repetitive
loss buildings (see definition).
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or improvement of a
structure taking place subsequent to the adoption of this chapter in which the
cumulative percentage of improvements:
         (a)   Equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure
before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   Increases the floor area by more than 20%.
      (2)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building
commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of
the structure. This term includes structures which have incurred repetitive
loss or substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done. The term
does not include:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local Health, Sanitary or Safety Code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the State Register of Historic Places.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the county’s floodplain management regulations. A structure or
other development without the required federal, state and/or local permits and
elevation certification is presumed to be in VIOLATION until the time as the
documentation is provided.
(Ord. 07-18, passed 10-18-2007)
§ 152.03 DUTIES OF THE RESPONSIBLE OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The County Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for the general
administration of this chapter and ensure that all development activities
within the floodplains under the jurisdiction of the county meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Specifically, the County Zoning Administrator shall:
      (1)   Process development permits in accordance with §
152.04;
      (2)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of §
152.21;
      (3)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to §
152.22 are met and maintain a record of the “as-built” elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
      (4)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements
of §
152.23;
      (5)   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of §
152.24;
      (6)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of §
152.05 are met and maintain documentation of any variances granted;
      (7)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty
actions outlined in §
152.99 as are necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
      (8)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state and federal permits;
      (9)   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse;
      (10)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
      (11)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
      (12)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter;
      (13)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter
and make substantial damage determinations for structures within the
floodplain; and
      (14)   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps, including notifying
IDNR/OWR and/or submitting information to FEMA within six months whenever a
modification of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in
a change to the floodplain map.
(Ord. 07-18, passed 10-18-2007)
§ 152.04 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body not exempted by law
shall commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the County Zoning Administrator. The County Zoning
Administrator shall not issue a development permit if the proposed development
does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
      (2)   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      (3)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      (4)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §
152.22; and
      (5)   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed engineer
or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this requirement.
   (C)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the County
Zoning Administrator shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood
elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown by survey data to
be higher than the current base flood elevation and which has not been filled
after the date of the site’s first Flood Insurance Rate Map is not in the
floodplain and therefore not subject to the requirements of this chapter.
Conversely, any development located on land shown to be below the base flood
elevation and hydraulically connected, but not shown on the current Flood
Insurance Rate Map, is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   The County Zoning Administrator shall maintain documentation of the
existing ground elevation at the development site and certification that this
ground elevation existed prior to the date of the site’s first Flood Insurance
Rate Map identification. The County Zoning Administrator shall be responsible
for obtaining from the applicant copies of all other federal, state and local
permits, approvals or permit-not-required letters that may be required for this
type of activity. The County Zoning Administrator shall not issue a permit
unless all other federal, state and local permits have been obtained.
(Ord. 07-18, passed 10-18-2007)
§ 152.05 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a
specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the County Zoning
Board of Appeals for a variance. The County Zoning Board of Appeals shall
review the applicant’s request for a variance and shall submit its
recommendation to the Board. The Board may attach conditions to granting of a
variance as it deems necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   (B)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that
all of the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain.
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted.
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary.
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety or
creation of a nuisance.
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing or repairs to roads, utilities or other
public facilities.
      (6)   The applicant’s circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP.
      (7)   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   (C)   The County Zoning Board of Appeals shall notify an applicant in
writing that a variance from the requirements of the building protections
standards of §
152.22 that would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per
$100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   (D)   Variances to the building protection requirements of §
152.22 which are requested in connection with reconstruction, repair or
alteration of a historic site or historic structure, as defined herein, may be
granted using criteria more permissive than the requirements of §§
152.21 and
152.22, subject to the conditions that:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure; and
      (2)   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure.
(Ord. 07-18, passed 10-18-2007)
§ 152.06 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the county or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that results
from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made
lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 07-18, passed 10-18-2007)
§ 152.07 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the Board to
fulfill the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program. However, this
chapter does not repeal the original resolution or ordinance adopted to achieve
eligibility in the program. Nor does this chapter repeal, abrogate or impair
any existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions. Where this chapter and
other ordinance easements, covenants or deed restrictions conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 07-18, passed 10-18-2007)
§ 152.08 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage,
approval and publication as required by law.
(Ord. 07-18, passed 10-18-2007)
REDUCTION OF FLOOD HAZARD
§ 152.20 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is the base flood. The best
available base flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the
best available data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study
needed to replace the existing data with better data and submit it to the FEMA
and IDNR/OWR for approval prior to any development of the site.
   (B)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of the rives creeks and
streams studied shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the
countywide Flood Insurance Study of the county prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency and effective 11-2-2008.
   (C)   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an “AH
Zone” or AO Zone” shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the
countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of the county.
   (D)   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an “A Zone” on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of the
county shall be according to the best data available from federal, state or
other sources. Should no other data exist, an engineering study must be
financed by the applicant to determine base flood elevations.
(Ord. 07-18, passed 10-18-2007)
§ 152.21 PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES.
   Within any floodway identified on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map,
and within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no development shall be
allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated development
will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to public
health and safety. The following specific development activities shall be
considered as meeting this requirement:
      (1)   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
following conditions of the State Department of Natural Resources, Office of
Water Resources, Statewide Permit Number 2:
         (a)   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of one foot;
         (b)   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of one-half foot at a point 1,000 feet upstream of
the proposed structure;
         (c)   There are no buildings in the area impacted by the increases in
water surface profile;
         (d)   The proposed bridge or culvert crossing will not involve
straightening, enlarging or relocating the existing channel;
         (e)   The design must be certified by a licensed professional engineer
in the state and the designs must meet the conditions of an IDNR/OWR permit;
and
         (f)   The design must be certified by a second licensed professional
engineer.
      (2)   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR Statewide Permit Number 3: the permit is only applicable when deadmen, pier
cells or other similar anchorage devices have been permitted by the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers;
      (3)   Aerial utility crossings meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR Statewide Permit Number 4;
         (a)   The utility line must be constructed above the existing 100-year
flood elevation or attached to an existing bridge;
         (b)   A utility line attached to an existing bridge shall be
constructed above the low chord elevation of the bridge;
         (c)   No supporting towers or poles shall be located in a river, lake
or stream;
         (d)   Supporting towers including foundation and poles shall be
designed and located so as to not cause an obstruction of flood flows by
trapping debris;
         (e)   All disturbed areas shall be returned to pre-construction grades
and re-vegetated; and
         (f)   All State Commerce Commission, National Electrical Safety Code
and federal requirements must be met.
      (4)   Minor boat docks meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 5:
         (a)   The boat dock must not extend more than 50 feet into a waterway
and no more than one-quarter of the width of the waterway and shall not extend
beyond the navigational limits established by the IDNR and Corps of Engineers;
         (b)   The width of the boat dock shall not be more than ten feet;
         (c)   For L-shaped or T-shaped docks, the length of that portion
parallel to the shoreline must not exceed 50% of the landowner’s shoreline
frontage nor 50 feet;
         (d)   Docks must be aligned so as not to cross the projection of
property lines into the waterway or come within ten feet of the projected
property line;
         (e)   Dock posts must be marked by reflective devices;
         (f)   The boat dock must be securely anchored to prevent detachment
during times of high wind or water;
         (g)   Metal drums or containers may not be used as buoyancy units
unless they are filled with floatation foam. Containers which previously stored
pesticides, herbicides or any other toxic chemicals are not permissible;
         (h)   This permit does not authorize any other related construction
activity such as shore protection or fill;
         (i)   Non-floating boat docks must be constructed in a manner which
will minimize obstruction to flow; and
         (j)   At any future date, the permittee must agree to make necessary
modifications to the dock as determined by the IDNR or Corps of Engineers.
      (5)   Minor, non-obstructive activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 6: the following activities (not involving
fill or positive change in grade) are covered by this permit:
         (a)   The construction of underground utility lines, wells or septic
tanks not crossing a lake or stream;
         (b)   The construction of light poles, sign posts and similar
structures;
         (c)   The construction of sidewalks, driveways, athletic fields
(excluding fences), patios and similar structures;
         (d)   The construction of properly anchored, unwalled, open structures
such as playground equipment, pavilions and carports;
         (e)   The placement of properly anchored buildings not exceeding 70
square feet in size, nor ten square feet in any dimension. Only one building on
a property is authorized by this statewide permit; and
         (f)   The raising of existing buildings; provided, no changes are made
to the outside dimensions of the building and the placement of fill is not
involved.
      (6)   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 7:
         (a)   Any outfall structure, including any headwall or end-section,
shall not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent natural bank
slope or adjacent bank protection;
         (b)   The velocity of the discharge shall not exceed the scour
velocity of the channel soil, unless channel erosion would be prevented by the
use of riprap or other design measures;
         (c)   Outlets from drainage ditches shall not be opened to a stream
until the ditch is vegetated or otherwise stabilized to minimize stream
sedimentation; and
         (d)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      (7)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 8:
         (a)   In all cases, the crossing shall be placed beneath the bed of
the river, lake or stream and, unless the crossing is encased in concrete or
entrenched in bedrock, a minimum of three feet of cover shall be provided. The
river, lake or stream bed shall be returned to its original condition;
         (b)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction;
         (c)   Any utility crossing carrying material which may cause water
pollution, as defined by the Environmental Protection Act (ILCS Ch. 415, Act
5), shall be provided with shut-off valves on each side of the body of water to
be crossed; and
         (d)   If blasting is to be utilized in the construction of the
crossing, the permittee shall notify the IDNR/OWR at least ten days prior to
the blasting date to allow monitoring of any related fish kills.
      (8)   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 9:
         (a)   Only the following materials may be utilized in urban areas:
stone and concrete riprap, steel sheet piling, cellular blocks, fabric-formed
concrete, gabion baskets, rock and wire mattresses, sand/cement filled bags,
geotechnical fabric materials, natural vegetation and treated timber. URBAN
AREAS are defined as: areas of the state where residential, commercial, or
industrial development currently exists or, based on land use plans or
controls, is expected to occur within ten years. (The Department should be
consulted if there is a question of whether or not an area is considered
urban.);
         (b)   In addition to the materials listed in division (A)(8)(a) above,
other materials (e.g., tire revetments) may be utilized in rural areas provided
all other conditions of this permit are met;
         (c)   The following materials shall not be used in any case: auto
bodies, garbage or debris, scrap lumber, metal refuse, roofing materials,
asphalt or other bituminous materials, or any material which would cause water
pollution as defined by the Environmental Protections Act (ILCS Ch. 415, Act
5);
         (d)   The affected length of shoreline, stream bank or channel to be
protected shall not exceed, either singularly or cumulatively, 1,000 feet;
         (e)   All material utilized shall be properly sized or anchored to
resist anticipated forces of current and wave action;
         (f)   Materials shall be placed in a way which would not cause erosion
or the accumulation of debris on properties adjacent to or opposite the
project;
         (g)   Materials shall not be placed higher than the existing top of
the bank;
         (h)   1.   Materials shall be placed so that the modified bank full-
width and cross-sectional area of the channel will conform to or be no more
restrictive than that of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the
site.
            2.   For projects involving continuous placement of riprap along
the bank, toe of the bank or other similar applications, in no case shall the
cross-sectional area of the natural channel be reduced by more than 10%, nor
the volume of material placed exceed two cubic yards per lineal foot, of the
stream bank or shoreline. The bank may be graded to obtain a flatter slope and
to lessen the quantity of material required.
         (i)   If broken concrete is used, all protruding materials such as
reinforcing rods shall be cut flush with the surface of the concrete and
removed from the construction area;
         (j)   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction;
         (k)   In the case of seawalls and gabion structures on lakes, the
structure shall be constructed at or landward of the water line as determined
by the normal pool elevation, unless:
            1.   It is constructed in alignment with an existing seawall(s) or
gabion structure(s); and
            2.   The volume of material placed, including the structure, would
not exceed two cubic yards per lineal foot.
         (l)   Excess material excavated during the construction of the bank or
shoreline protection shall be placed in accordance with local, state and
federal laws and rules, but shall not be placed in a floodway.
      (9)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 10:
         (a)   The accessory structure or building addition must comply with
the requirements of the local floodplain ordinance;
         (b)   The principal structure to which the project is being added must
have been in existence on the effective date of this permit (7-25-1988);
         (c)   The accessory structure or addition must not exceed 500 square
feet in size and must not deflect flood waters onto another property;
         (d)   Must not involve the placement of any fill material;
         (e)   No construction shall be undertaken in, or within 50 feet of the
bank of the stream channel;
         (f)   The accessory structure or addition must be properly anchored to
prevent its movement during flood conditions;
         (g)   Only one accessory structure or addition to an existing
structure shall be authorized by this permit; plans for any subsequent addition
must be submitted to IDNR/OWR for review; and
         (h)   Disturbances of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed floodway areas
shall be seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      (10)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 11:
         (a)   The affected length of the stream shall not either singularly or
cumulatively exceed 1,000 feet;
         (b)   The project shall not include the construction of any new
channel; all work must be confined to the existing channel or to reestablishing
flows in the natural stream channel;
         (c)   The cross-sectional area of the dredged channel shall conform to
that of the natural channel upstream and down stream of the site;
         (d)   Dredged or spoil material shall not be disposed of in a wetland
and shall be either:
            1.   Removed from the floodway;
            2.   Used to stabilize an existing bank provided no materials would
be placed higher than the existing top of bank and provided the cross-sectional
area of the natural channel would not be reduced by more than 10%, nor the
volume of material placed exceed two cubic yards per lineal foot of streambank;
            3.   Used to fill an existing washed out or scoured floodplain area
so that the average natural floodplain elevation is not increased;
            4.   Used to stabilize an existing levee provided the height of the
levee would not be increased, nor its alignment changed;
            5.   Placed in a disposal site previously approved by the
Department in accordance with the conditions of the approval; or
            6.   Used for beach nourishment; provided, the material meets all
applicable water quality standards.
         (e)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be seeded or otherwise
stabilized upon completion of construction.
      (11)   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 12:
         (a)   A licensed professional engineer shall determine and document
that the existing structure has not been the cause of demonstrable flood
damage. The documentation shall include, at a minimum, confirmation that:
            1.   No buildings or structures have been impacted by the backwater
induced by the existing structure; and
            2.   There is no record of complaints of flood damages associated
with the existing structure.
         (b)   A licensed professional engineer shall determine that the new
structure will provide the same or greater effective waterway opening as the
existing structure. For bridge widening projects, the existing piers and the
proposed pier extensions must be in line with the direction of the approaching
flow upstream of the bridge;
         (c)   The project shall not include any appreciable raising of the
approach roads. (This condition does not apply if all points on the approaches
exist at an elevation equal to or higher than the 100-year frequency flood
headwater elevation as determined by a FEMA flood insurance study completed or
approved by IDNR/OWR.);
         (d)   The project shall not involve the straightening, enlargement or
relocation of the existing channel of the river or stream except as permitted
by the Department’s Statewide Permit Number 9 (minor shoreline, channel and
streambank protection activities) or Statewide Permit Number 11 (minor
maintenance dredging activities); and
         (e)   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by
this permit necessary to document compliance with the above conditions.
      (12)   Temporary construction activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 13:
         (a)   No temporary construction activity shall be commenced until the
individual permittee determines that the permanent structure (if any) for which
the work is being performed has received all required federal, state and local
authorizations;
         (b)   The term TEMPORARY shall mean not more than one construction
season. All temporary construction materials must be removed from the stream
and floodway within one year of their placement and the area returned to the
conditions existing prior to the beginning of construction. Any desired
subsequent or repetitive material placement shall not occur without the review
and approval of the IDNR/OWR;
         (c)   The temporary project shall be constructed so that it will not
cause erosion or damage due to increases in water surface profiles to adjacent
properties. For locations where there are structures in the upstream
floodplain, the temporary project shall be constructed so that all water
surface profile increases, due to the temporary project, are contained within
the channel banks;
         (d)   This permit does not authorize the placement or construction of
any solid embankment or wall such as a dam, roadway, levee or dike across any
channel or floodway;
         (e)   No temporary structure shall be placed within any river or
stream channel until a licensed professional engineer determines and documents
that the temporary structure will meet the requirements of special condition
number 3 of this statewide permit. The documentation shall include, at a
minimum, confirmation that no buildings or structures will be impacted by the
backwater induced by the temporary structure;
         (f)   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by
this permit necessary to document compliance with the above condition;
         (g)   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of the removal of the temporary
construction; and
         (h)   Materials used for the project shall not cause water pollution
as defined by the Environmental Protection Act (ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5).
      (13)   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in division (A) above may be
permitted only if:
      (1)   The permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required); or
      (2)   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation.
(Ord. 07-18, passed 10-18-2007)
§ 152.22 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of §
152.21, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be protected from flood
damage below the flood protection elevation. This building protection
requirement applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a new building, or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than $1,000 or 70 square feet;
      (2)   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than 20%, or equal or
exceed the market value by 50%. Alteration shall be figured cumulatively
subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If substantially improved, the
existing structure and the addition must meet the flood protection standards of
this section;
      (3)   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If
substantially damaged, the entire structure must meet the flood protection
standards of this section;
      (4)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. (The building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage.);
      (5)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days per year; and
      (6)   Repetitive loss to an existing building as defined in §
152.02.
   (B)   Residential or non-residential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods.
      (1)   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in
accordance with the following.
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation.
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
before compaction and should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
before sloping below the flood protection elevation.
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or other structural measure.
         (d)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse material.
         (e)   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties and, when necessary, storm water management
techniques such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      (2)   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following.
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawlspace or other foundation that is permanently open to flood waters.
         (b)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation.
         (c)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of flood waters. Designs must either be certified by a licensed
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot above grade with a minimum of two openings. The
openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base flood
elevation.
         (d)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice and floating debris.
            1.   All structural components below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage.
            2.   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation; provided, they are waterproofed.
            3.   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space.
            4.   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply
with these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      (3)   The building may be constructed with a crawlspace located below the
flood protection elevation; provided that, the following conditions are met.
         (a)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
         (b)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of flood waters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot above grade.
         (c)   The interior grade of the crawlspace below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior
grade.
         (d)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundation’s wall must not exceed four
feet at any point.
         (e)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove flood
waters from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period of
time after a flood event.
         (f)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage.
         (g)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
   (C)   Non-residential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed (in
lieu of elevation); provided, a licensed professional engineer or architect
certifies that:
      (1)   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood;
      (2)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy and the
impact from debris and ice;
      (3)   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building
design and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity; and
      (4)   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this division (C).
   (D)   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on
site shall be:
      (1)   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with division (B) above; and
      (2)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement by being
tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the State Mobile
Home Tie-Down Act issued pursuant to 77 I.A.C. 870.
   (E)   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than 180
days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of division (D) above
unless the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light-
duty truck.
      (2)   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times.
      (3)   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches.
      (4)   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping, travel
or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling.
      (5)   The vehicles’ largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
400 square feet.
      (6)   The vehicle’s wheels must remain on axles and inflated.
      (7)   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement of the floodplain.
      (8)   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick-disconnect and above the 100-year flood elevation.
      (9)   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle
or park model.
      (10)   Must either:
         (a)   Entirely be supported by jacks; or
         (b)   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground and be supported by block in a manner that will allow the block to
be easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
   (F)   Garages, sheds or other minor accessory structures constructed
ancillary to an existing residential use may be permitted; provided, the
following conditions are met.
      (1)   The garage or shed must be non-habitable.
      (2)   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles
and tools and cannot be modified later into another use.
      (3)   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate state and/or federal permits.
      (4)   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be accessory
to an existing principal structure on the same lot.
      (5)   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage.
      (6)   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation.
      (7)   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot above grade, with one square inch of opening for
every one square foot of floor area.
      (8)   The garage or shed must be less than $10,000 in market value or
replacement cost, whichever is greater or less than 500 square feet.
      (9)   The structure shall be anchored to resist floatation and
overturning.
      (10)   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers and the like) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation.
      (11)   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications.
(Ord. 07-18, passed 10-18-2007)
§ 152.23 SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   The Board shall take into account hazards, to the extent that they are
known, in all official actions related to land management use and development.
   (A)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protections
standards of §§
152.21 and
152.22. Any proposal for the development shall include the following data:
      (1)   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain, where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      (2)   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
      (3)   A signed statement by a registered professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act (ILCS Ch. 765, Act 205, § 2).
   (B)   Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible, the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
(Ord. 07-18, passed 10-18-2007)
§ 152.24 PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS.
   (A)   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of §§
152.21 and
152.22, the following standards apply.
      (1)   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of §
152.22.
      (2)   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      (3)   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters.
      (4)   New and replacement on-site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other aboveground openings
located below the flood protection elevation shall be water-tight.
      (5)   (a)   Construction of new or substantially improved critical
facilities shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction
of new critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no
feasible alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within
the SFHA shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or
structurally dry floodproofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation or
three feet above the level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation, whichever
is greater. Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that
toxic substances will not be displaced by or released into flood waters.
         (b)   Access routes elevated to or above the level of the base flood
elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities.
   (B)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
(Ord. 07-18, passed 10-18-2007)
§ 152.25 CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   For all projects involving channel modification, fill or stream
maintenance (including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse
shall be maintained.
   (B)   In addition, the county shall notify adjacent communities in writing
30 days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or relocation of
the watercourse.
(Ord. 07-18, passed 10-18-2007)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or
failure to comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed
to be a violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the County State’s
Attorney may determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this
chapter exists. The County State’s Attorney shall notify the owner in writing
of the violation.
   (B)   If the owner fails, after ten days’ notice, to correct the violation:
      (1)   The county shall make application to the Circuit Court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make other order as the
court deems necessary to secure compliance with the chapter;
      (2)   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof
be fined not less than $50 or more than $750 for each offense;
      (3)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues; and
      (4)   The county shall record a notice of violation on the title of the
property.
   (C)   (1)   The County State’s Attorney shall inform the owner that any
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
      (2)   The County State’s Attorney is authorized to issue an order
requiring the suspension of the subject development. The stop-work order shall
be in writing, indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the
action, if necessary, to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop-work
order. The stop-work order constitutes a suspension of the permit.
      (3)   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or
revoked until a hearing is held by the County Land Use Committee. Written
notice of the hearing shall be served on the permittee and shall state:
         (a)   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or
revocation; and
         (b)   The time and place of the hearing.
      (4)   At the hearing, the permittee shall be given an opportunity to
present evidence on his, her or their behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing,
the County Land Use Committee shall determine whether the permit shall be
suspended or revoked.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall prevent the county from taking other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 07-18, passed 10-18-2007)
CHAPTER 153: COMMERCIAL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Title
   
153.02   Statutory authorization
   
153.03   Purpose
   
153.04   Intent
   
153.05   Definitions
   
153.06   Interpretation
   
153.07   Jurisdiction
   
153.08   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.09   Indemnification
   
153.10   Fees charged for building permit
   
153.11   Proposals for erected structures
   
153.12   Effective date
   Special Use Regulations
   
153.25   Siting approval application
   
153.26   Standards
   
153.27   Technical requirements
   
153.28   Operation
   
153.29   Insurance
   
153.30   Decommissioning plan
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as, referred to or cited as the “DeWitt County
Commercial Wind Energy Conversion Ordinance of DeWitt County, Illinois”.
(Ord. passed 4-23-2009; Res. 23-9, passed 5-18-2023)
§ 153.02 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   These regulations are adopted under the authority of state statutes. The
County Board does hereby ordain this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-23-2009; Res. 23-9, passed 5-18-2023)
§ 153.03 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To promote the use of renewable energy sources if cost effective and
technically feasible; and
   (B)   It is in the best interests of the citizens of the county that zoning
and other regulations be promulgated so as to implement restrictions on the
placement and operation of wind energy conversion systems within the county,
which preserve and/or protect the public health and/or safety of all citizens
residing in the county.
(Ord. passed 4-23-2009; Res. 23-9, passed 5-18-2023)
§ 153.04 INTENT.
   The intent of this chapter is to provide a means to regulate and restrict
the locations within the county where wind energy systems and facilities can be
constructed.
(Ord. passed 4-23-2009; Res. 23-9, passed 5-18-2023)
§ 153.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. A person or entity applying for a special use permit to construct
a wind energy conversion system or facility in the county.
   COMMERCIAL WIND ENERGY FACILITY. A wind energy conversion facility of equal
or greater than 500 kilowatts in total nameplate generating capacity.
COMMERCIAL WIND ENERGY FACILITY includes wind energy conversion facility
seeking an extension or a permit to construct granted by a county or
municipality before the effective date of this amendatory Act of the 102nd
General Assembly.
   FACILITY OWNER. (i) A person with a direct ownership interest in a
commercial wind energy facility, regardless of whether the person is involved
in acquiring the necessary rights, permits, and approvals or otherwise planning
for the construction and operation of the facility, and (ii) at the time the
facility is being developed, a person who is acting as a developer of the
facility by acquiring the necessary rights, permits, and approvals or by
planning for the construction and operation of the facility, regardless of
whether the person will own or operate the facility.
   GOOD UTILITY PRACTICE. Any of the practices, methods and acts engaged in or
approved by a significant portion of the electric utility industry during the
relevant time period, or any of the practices, methods and acts which, in the
exercise of reasonable judgment in light of the facts known at the time the
decision was made, could have been expected to accomplish the desired result at
a reasonable cost consistent with good business practices, reliability, safety
and expedition. GOOD UTILITY PRACTICE is not intended to be limited to the
optimum practice, method, or act to the exclusion of all others, but rather to
be acceptable practices, methods or acts generally accepted in the region,
including those practices required by Federal Power Act § 215(a)(4), being 18
C.F.R. § 215.
   NON-PARTICIPATING PROPERTY. Real property that is not a participating
property.
   NON-PARTICIPATING RESIDENCE. A residence that is located on a non-
participating property and that is existing and occupied on the date that an
application for a permit to develop the commercial wind energy facility is
filed with the county.
   OCCUPIED COMMUNITY BUILDING. Any one or more of the following buildings that
is existing and occupied on the date that the application for a permit to
develop the commercial wind energy facility is filed with the county: a school,
place of worship, day care facility, public library, or community center.
   PARTICIPATING PROPERTY. Real property that is the subject of a written
agreement between a facility owner and the owner of the real property that
provides the facility owner an easement, option, lease, or license to use the
real property for the purpose of constructing a commercial wind energy facility
or supporting facilities. Participating property also includes real property
that is owned by a facility owner for the purpose of constructing a commercial
wind energy facility or supporting facilities.
   PARTICIPATING RESIDENCE. A residence that is located on participating
property and that is existing and occupied on the date that an application for
a permit to develop the commercial wind energy facility is filed with the
county.
   PROTECTED LANDS. Real property that is: (i) subject to a permanent
conservation right consistent with the Real Property Conservation Rights Act;
or (ii) registered or designated as a nature preserve, buffer, or land and
water reserve under the Illinois Natural Areas Preservation Act.
   TOWER HEIGHT. The distance from the tip of the rotor blade at its highest
point to the top surface of the WECS foundation. For the purposes of this
chapter, TOTAL TOWER HEIGHT and TOTAL HEIGHT shall be considered the same
dimension as TOWER HEIGHT.
   SUPPORTING FACILITIES. The transmission lines, substations, access roads,
meteorological towers, storage containers, and equipment associated with the
generation and storage of electricity by the commercial wind energy facility.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS (WECS). Equipment that converts and then
stores or transfers energy from the wind into usable forms of energy.
   WIND ENERGY SYSTEM FACILITY (WESF). All land and equipment used by the wind
energy system and its support facilities including the wind turbine, tower,
access roads, control facilities and all power collection and transmission
systems.
   WIND TOWER. Includes the wind turbine tower, nacelle, and blades.
   WIND TURBINE. A mechanical device, which captures kinetic energy of the wind
and converts it into electricity. The primary components of a WIND TURBINE are
the blade assembly, electrical generator and tower.
(Ord. passed 4-23-2009; Res. 23-9, passed 5-18-2023)
§ 153.06 INTERPRETATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be interpreted and applied as minimum
requirements; shall be liberally construed in favor of the county; and shall
not be deemed a limitation or repeal of any other power granted by state
statutes.
(Ord. passed 4-23-2009; Res. 23-9, passed 5-18-2023)
§ 153.07 JURISDICTION.
   The jurisdiction of this chapter shall include all lands and waters within
the county and within those municipalities not having in force their own wind
energy conversion ordinance.
(Ord. passed 4-23-2009; Res. 23-9, passed 5-18-2023)
§ 153.08 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul or interfere
with any existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions, agreements,
ordinances, rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or issued pursuant
to law. However, wherever this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this chapter shall govern that are not in conflict with state
statutes.
(Ord. passed 4-23-2009; Res. 23-9, passed 5-18-2023)
§ 153.09 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   The applicant shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the county and
its officials, employees and agents from and against any and all claims,
demands, losses, suits, causes of action, damages, injuries, costs, expenses
and liabilities whatsoever, including reasonable attorney's fees (the
liabilities together known as "liability") arising out of the applicant's
selection, construction, operation and removal of the wind turbines and
affiliated equipment including, without limitation, liability for property or
personal injury (including death), whether the liability is premised on
contract or on tort (including, without limitation, strict liability or
negligence).
   (B)   This general indemnification shall not be construed as limiting or
qualifying the county's other indemnification rights available under the law.
   (C)   All costs incurred by the county shall be paid by the applicant, owner
or operator. Cost incurred under this provision shall include, but not be
limited to, the cost of experts and/or attorneys that may be used at any stage
of the project, including the application review, hearing process,
consideration of the application by the county (including County Board or
Zoning Board of Appeals), permitting, operations phase and/or decommissioning
phase. In addition, costs of any appeal or litigation resulting from any
project, application, action, permit, or work undertaken or performed by the
county shall be paid by the applicant, owner or operator, including, but not
limited to, the cost of experts and attorney's fees.
(Ord. passed 4-23-2009; Res. 2021-05, passed 1-21-2021; Res. 23-9, passed 5-18-
2023)
§ 153.10 FEES CHARGED FOR BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   A special use permit is required prior to obtaining a building permit.
   (B)   A building permit is required for the installment of each tower
located within the unincorporated lands within the boundaries of DeWitt county.
The building permit must be submitted to the county Zoning Administrator on the
approved application form.
   (C)   All WECS building/construction plans shall include a certification by
an Illinois Licensed Structural Engineer that the foundation and tower design
on the WECS is within accepted professional standards, given local soil and
climate conditions.
   (D)   Site plan with all of the following items to the extent that items
mentioned below are identifiable by landowner of ALTA survey:
      (1)   Electrical cabling from the WECS Tower to the substation;
      (2)   Ancillary equipment;
      (3)   Third party transmission lines;
      (4)   Wells;
      (5)   Septic fields;
      (6)   Field tile location;
      (7)   Existing easements;
      (8)   Floodplain location and elevation, if applicable; and
      (9)   Wetland location, if any.
   (E)   Letter from the FAA stating the project is in compliance with FAA
height and lighting requirements.
   (F)   A building permit fee is required as stated in §
155.126(C)(i) - Structures other than buildings.
   (G)   The owner or operator of the WECS must submit, on a yearly basis, a
summary of:
      (1)   The operation and maintenance reports;
      (2)   Any physical modifications to the WECS; and
      (3)   Complaints pertaining to setbacks, noise, appearance, safety,
lighting, use of roads, shadow flickers, etc.
(Ord. passed 4-23-2009; Ord. passed 4-20-2017; Res. 23-9, passed 5-18-2023)
§ 153.11 PROPOSALS FOR ERECTED STRUCTURES.
   Any wind tower or electric-generating wind device proposed to be erected
within 1.5 miles of the corporate limits of an incorporated village or
municipality shall be subject to the approval of said incorporated village or
municipality before a special use permit shall be granted for said proposed
wind tower or electric-generating device.
(Res. 2018-02, passed 4-19-2018; Res. 23-9, passed 5-18-2023)
§ 153.12 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall immediately take effect upon passage as provided by law.
(Ord. passed 4-23-2009; Res. 23-9, passed 5-18-2023)
SPECIAL USE REGULATIONS
§ 153.25 SITING APPROVAL APPLICATION.
   Wind energy system facilities and parts thereof shall meet the following
requirements:
   (A)   Comply with application procedures required by
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances;
   (B)   Provide properly executed agreements:
      (1)   "Road upgrade and maintenance agreement" with each highway
authority having jurisdiction over potentially impacted highways, roads and
streets by the development of the WESF.
   (C)   (1)   Submit a site plan for the installation of WESFs showing:
         (a)   Boundaries of the project;
         (b)   Location of each WECS tower, guy lines and anchor bases (if
any);
         (c)   All WECS structures including, but not limited to, the project
substations; interconnect substation; location and voltage of any buried and
overhead transmission lines;
         (d)   Property lines (including identification of adjoining properties
and owners);
         (e)   Setback lines;
         (f)   Public access roads and turnout locations;
         (g)   Location of all existing structures with principal residential
structures identified; and
         (h)   Land use, zoning, public roads and structures indicating the
required setbacks for the WECS site.
      (2)   The site plan shall include a legal description and plat of the
WESF to be prepared by a licensed surveyor. The plat of survey to be furnished
shall be a certified copy in recordable form.
   (D)   Submit all required federal, state and local regulatory agencies’
studies, reports, certifications and approvals demonstrating compliance with
the provisions of this chapter and other county ordinances;
   (E)   (1)   Wind energy system facilities shall comply with all Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA) and Federal Communication Commission (FCC)
requirements. In addition, the WESF shall be required to use an FAA approved
Aircraft Lighting Mitigation System to reduce the impacts of nighttime lighting
on county residents and wildlife. The location of WESF components shall be
modified or adjusted as necessary for an application to be accepted by FAA.
      (2)   If approved by the FAA the most effective system approved shall be
utilized. In determining which system is more effective, sole discretion shall
be vested with the DeWitt County Board, and shall be decided by majority vote.
The County Board may grant a grace period in its discretion for the
installation of lighting mitigation equipment by majority vote not to exceed a
year upon the structure being constructed. No extensions may be granted beyond
one year for any reason.
      (3)   If other multi-level structures excluding structures built and
intended for family occupancy are built within 2,000 feet of existing WECS
towers, a study shall be conducted as a pre-requisite to the issuing of a
permit. Said study must show that there shall be no interference with existing
lighting mitigation on currently standing WECS towers. If a study concludes
that interference exists, then the builder of the structure must present proof
that the interference is rectified prior to the issuance of a permit. Said
study shall be conducted by an entity approved by the County Board of DeWitt
County by majority vote, and the costs of said study shall be paid by the
builder and/or owner of the proposed structure. The above requirements shall be
a condition of any permit granted.
      (4)   The applicant shall prepare a shadow flicker study including the
potential effects of each proposed WECS on all principal residential
structures. The results will identify the locations and expected duration of
shadow flicker over the course of a calendar year. This study shall be
submitted as part of the special use permit application. Under no circumstances
shall a WECS or testing facility produce shadow flicker or strobe effect on a
non- participating residence in excess of 30 hours per calendar year. Non-
participating property owners may waive these requirements in writing.
   (F)   WESFs are permitted only in the Agricultural (A), Industrial (I) and
Rural Development-1 (RD-1) Zoning Districts by special use permit;
   (G)   (1)   A special use permit is required for towers constructed or
erected as part of the WESF with a special use application fee of:
         (a)   Two hundred dollars if two acres or less;
         (b)   Two hundred and fifty dollars if greater than two acres, but
less than ten acres;
         (c)   Three hundred dollars if ten acres or greater, but less than 26
acres; and
         (d)   Twenty-six acres and over $100 plus $10 per acre.
      (2)   A single special use application may be submitted for multiple
towers.
      (3)   This fee calculation shall supersede any other fee calculation for
special use permits.
   (H)   All work on the approved WESF must be completed within three years of
the date work begins on the first tower foundation of the permitted phase; and
   (I)   The Zoning Administrator and other agents, as designated by the County
Board, shall have access to the WESF at all times during construction and
maintenance to conduct inspections of the work being performed.
(Ord. passed 4-23-2009; Ord. passed 4-20-2017; Res. 2018-08, passed 8-22-2018;
Res. 2021-01, passed 1-21-2021; Res. 2021-04, passed 1-21-2021; Res. 2021-06,
passed 1-21-2021; Res. 23-9, passed 5-18-2023)
Cross reference:
   For road upgrade and maintenance agreement adopted pursuant to §
153.25, see
T.S.O. I
§ 153.26 STANDARDS.
   (A)   Construction standards. WESF shall be constructed in compliance with
good utility practice for WESF. The applicant shall provide, as part of the
building permit application, engineering drawings of the proposed foundation
and tower design sealed by a licensed professional structural engineer.
   (B)   Construction observation. The applicant shall retain, at the
applicant’s expense, the services of an independent engineering consultant to
observe construction of the WESF. The consultant shall be approved by the
County Board prior to beginning any work on the WESF. The consultant shall be a
state licensed professional engineering firm pre-qualified with the State
Department of Transportation in the following categories: structures (typical),
highways (roads and streets), special services (land survey) and construction
inspection. The consultant shall visit the site at intervals appropriate to the
stage of construction, or as otherwise directed by the county, in order to
observe the progress and quality of work completed by the contractor. The
consultant shall prepare reports for each visit to the site detailing
observations of the work performed and forward those reports to the Zoning
Administrator within three business days following the date of the site visit.
   (C)   Compliance. If the county concludes that any part of the WESF was not
constructed in compliance with the details of the permit application, good
utility practice or constitutes a danger to persons or property, then upon
notice being provided by the County Board, the applicant shall have 90 days to
bring the non-compliant WESF(s) into compliance with the standards specified
herein. If 90 days is insufficient time to cure the non-compliance, the
applicant shall present a plan to the county describing the reason for the
delay and the time frame for the cure to be put in place. Failure to bring the
non-compliant WESF(s) into compliance or failure to provide a plan for
compliance within 90 days shall constitute grounds for the county to demand
removal of the WESF(s) at the applicant’s expense and all construction work on
the WESF(s) shall cease until the non-compliances are resolved to the
satisfaction of the County Board. The following minimum safety standards shall
apply to the construction of the WESF.
      (1)   All wiring between the wind turbines shall be underground.
      (2)   The outside of the WECS shall not be climbable.
      (3)   All access doors to the turbines and electrical equipment shall be
locked.
   (D)   Performance standards. Any wind energy conversion system or wind
energy system facility shall be operated and maintained consistent with good
utility practice for comparable facilities.
   (E)   State and federal standards. Construction of WESF(s) shall meet or
exceed current standards and regulations, if any, of any other agency of the
state or federal government with the authority to regulate wind powered
generators. If the standards and regulations are changed and retroactive
application is required for the change, then the applicant shall bring the WESF
(s) into compliance with the applicable revised standards and regulations
within six months of the effective date of the standards and regulations,
unless a different compliance schedule is permitted by the controlling state or
federal agency or approved by the county. A determination of “no hazard” for
each wind turbine must be obtained from the FAA as a condition precedent for
the installation of each turbine.
(Ord. passed 4-23-2009; Res. 23-9, passed 5-18-2023)
§ 153.27 TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Height. There shall be no restriction on the height of any WESF,
provided all other requirements of this chapter are met.
   (B)   Setback. A wind tower of a commercial wind energy facility shall have
the following minimum setback distances measured from the center of the base of
the wind tower. These setback requirements may be waived subject to the written
consent of the owner of each affected nonparticipating property.
      (1)   Wind towers shall be setback 2.1 times the maximum blade tip height
of the wind tower to the nearest point on the outside wall of the structure
from occupied community buildings.
      (2)   Wind towers shall be setback 1.1 times the maximum blade tip height
of the wind tower to the nearest point on the outside wall of the structure
from participating residences.
      (3)   Wind towers shall be setback 2.1 times the maximum blade tip height
of the wind tower to the nearest point on the outside wall of the structure
from nonparticipating residences.
      (4)   There are no wind tower setback requirements regarding the boundary
lines of participating property.
      (5)   Wind towers shall be setback 1.1 times the maximum blade tip height
of the wind tower to the nearest point on the property line of the
nonparticipating property.
      (6)   Wind towers shall be setback 1.1 times the maximum blade tip height
of the wind tower to the center point of a public road right-of- way.
      (7)   Wind towers shall be setback 1.1 times the maximum blade tip height
of the wind tower to the nearest edge of the property line, easement, or right-
of-way to overhead communication and electric transmission and distribution
facilities.
      (8)   There are no wind tower setback requirements regarding overhead
utility service lines to individual houses or outbuildings.
      (9)   Wind towers shall be setback 2.1 times the maximum blade tip height
of the wind tower to the nearest point on the property line of a fish and
wildlife area or protected land.
   (C)   Noise. The WESF shall comply with State Pollution Control Board noise
regulations at all times.
   (D)   Color. Excerpt as may be required by the FAA, the coloration of the
exterior components and each wind turbine tower shall be off-white, light gray
or other neutral color, including the blades. The finish shall be flat or
matte. The applicant shall maintain the required coloration and finish
throughout the term of this permit.
   (E)   Signage.
      (1)   The applicant shall provide reasonable signage at the WESF,
identifying the premises as being part of the WESF and providing appropriate
safety notices and warnings against trespassing. The no trespassing signs shall
be posted around the entire premises at an appropriate distance for posting,
but no less than two conspicuous places for every 40 acres within the facility.
      (2)   No advertising material or signage other than warning, equipment
information or indicia of ownership shall be allowed on the wind turbines. This
prohibition shall include the attachment of any flag, decorative sign,
streamers, pennants, ribbons, spinners or waving, fluttering or revolving
devices, but not including weather devices.
   (F)   Public records. The applicant shall, prior to the initiation of
construction and use of public roads for hauling materials and equipment,
consult with the County Engineer, the Highway Authority (Township Road
Commissioner), the State Police and the County Sheriff’s Office for load paths
and restrictions on their respective impacted roads or bridges. The applicant
shall obtain, at the applicant’s expense, all necessary permits including the
“road maintenance and upgrade agreement” from all applicable highway
authorities and from the County Engineer.
   (G)   Reporting and complaint resolution. The applicant shall report to the
county as follows.
      (1)   Extraordinary events. Within 24 hours of any extraordinary event,
Applicant shall notify the County Sheriff’s Office. EXTRAORDINARY EVENTS shall
include tower collapse, catastrophic turbine failure, unauthorized entry to the
tower base, thrown blade or hub, or other event that, in the applicant’s
opinion, reasonably impacts the public health and safety of the county.
      (2)   Complaints. The applicant of the WESF shall, at the applicant’s
expense and in coordination with the county, develop a system for logging and
investigating all complaints related to the operational standards set forth in
this chapter. If the county determines it is reasonable and necessary, it may
undertake an investigation of the alleged operation violation by a qualified
individual mutually acceptable to the county and the owner of the wind energy
system facility. The reasonable cost and fees incurred by the county in
retaining the qualified individual shall be reimbursed by the owner of the wind
energy system facility. After the investigation, if the County Board reasonably
concludes the operation violations are shown to be caused by the wind energy
system facility, the applicant shall use reasonable efforts to mitigate the
problems on a case by case basis.
   (H)   Proximity to existing power transmission lines. The WESF shall be
sited near existing power transmission lines capable of accepting the power
generated by the facility. The applicant shall provide the following:
      (1)   A report detailing the excess capacity available in the power
transmission lines the WESF will use to connect to the power grid; and
      (2)   A map exhibit showing the location of the existing power
transmissions lines relative to the proposed WESF site, the proposed route of
connection to the existing power transmission lines and all affected
landowners.
(Ord. passed 4-23-2009; Ord. passed 4-20-2017; Res. 2018-03A, passed 4-19-2018;
Res. 2021-02, passed 1-21-2021; Res. 23-9, passed 5-18-2023)
§ 153.28 OPERATION.
   (A)   Startup. The applicant shall not begin producing energy for commercial
sale prior to receiving written approval to start operation by the Zoning
Administrator. The applicant shall make the request to the Zoning Administrator
in writing. The applicant shall certify the WESF has been constructed in
accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   Electromagnetic interference. Applicant shall not operate the facility
so as to cause microwave, television, radio, radar systems or navigation
interference. Any complaints received by the county shall be handled in
accordance with §
153.27(G)(2).
   (C)   Modification. Any modification that alters the mechanical load,
mechanical load path or major electrical components shall require it to be re-
permitted under the terms and conditions of this chapter. Prior to making any
physical modification (other than like-kind replacement), the owner or operator
of the WESF shall hire an independent licensed professional civil, mechanical
or electrical engineer to determine whether the physical modification requires
re-permitting. Like-kind replacements shall not require re-permitting.
   (D)   Damages. Between initial construction and decommissioning, the WESF
owner shall, at his, her or their expense, repair or replace, all soil
compaction, drainage tile, utilities, public and private property damaged as
part of on-going maintenance or other activities related to operation of the
WESF.
(Ord. passed 4-23-2009; Res. 2021-03, passed 1-21-2021; Res. 23-9, passed 5-18-
2023)
§ 153.29 INSURANCE.
   All applicants shall maintain the following insurance coverages commencing
upon construction of the facility.
   (A)   The dollar amounts listed herein are based on 2008 dollars. These sums
shall be adjusted by the County Board for inflation in accordance with the
Consumer Price Index as published by the United States Department of Labor,
Bureau of Labor Statistics, to reflect the present value at the time of
construction and shall be subject to re-evaluation by the County Board every
three years thereafter.
   (B)   The applicant shall, at its expense, maintain a current broad form
comprehensive general liability coverage insurance policy insuring the
applicant and participating landowners against loss or liability caused by the
applicant’s occupation and use of the property under the lease, in an amount
not less than $10,000,000 of combined single-limit liability coverage per
occurrence, accident or incident. All policies other than workers’ compensation
shall be written on an occurrence and not a claim-made basis. The county and
participating landowners shall be named as an additional insured on the policy
on a primary and non-contributory form.
   (C)   Workers’ compensation coverage in an amount required by state law. The
applicant shall require subcontractors and others not protected under its
insurance to obtain and maintain workers’ compensation and employer’s liability
insurance at $1,000,000/$1,000,000/$1,000,000 limits. The policy shall contain
“waiver of subrogation” in favor of the county and participating landowners.
   (D)   Certificates of insurance evidencing compliance with these
requirements shall be provided upon request of the county. The insurer will
provide notice to the county in the event there is a lapse in coverage
exceeding 30 days. All policies other than workers’ compensation shall be
written on an occurrence and not on a claim made basis. The WESF owner shall
provide certificates of insurance to the Zoning Administrator on an annual
basis.
   (E)   The applicant shall maintain “environmental - pollution liability”
coverage with a limit of not less than $5,000,000.
(Ord. passed 4-23-2009; Res. 23-9, passed 5-18-2023)
§ 153.30 DECOMMISSIONING PLAN.
   (A)   The application for a WESF project must contain a decommissioning plan
to ensure the WESF will be properly decommissioned upon the end of the project
life or facility abandonment.
   (B)   The decommissioning plan shall include:
      (1)   Removal of all structures (including transmission equipment and
fencing) and debris to depths as required by the signed Agricultural Impact
Mitigation Agreement;
      (2)   Restoration of the soil and restoration of vegetation as required
by the signed Agricultural Impact Mitigation Agreement;
      (3)   An estimated cost of decommissioning provided by a mutually agreed
upon licensed professional engineer (at the expense of the applicant);
      (4)   The financial resources to be used to accomplish decommissioning;
      (5)   The financial agent with which the resources shall be deposited;
      (6)   An agreement between the applicant and the county that:
         (a)   The financial resources for decommissioning shall be in the form
of a reclamation bond, an irrevocable letter of credit or shall be deposited in
an escrow account with an escrow agent acceptable to the Zoning Enforcement
Officer. Final approval on the form of the financial resource shall rest solely
with the County Board or its designee. The financial resource shall be
deposited with the chosen financial agent at the intervals and in the amounts
as outlined in the AIMA Agreement.
         (b)   A written financial agreement will be prepared establishing upon
what conditions the funds will be disbursed;
         (c)   The county shall have access to the financial account funds for
the expressed purpose of completing decommissioning if decommissioning is not
completed by the applicant within six months of the end of project life or
facility abandonment;
         (d)   The county is granted the right of entry onto the site, pursuant
to reasonable notice, to effect or complete decommissioning; and
         (e)   The county is granted the right to seek injunctive relief to
effect or complete decommissioning, as well as the county’s right to seek
reimbursement from the applicant or applicant’s successor for decommissioning
costs in excess of the amount deposited in financial account and to file a lien
against any real estate owned by the applicant or applicant’s successor, or in
which they have an interest, for the amount of the excess, and to take all
steps allowed by law to enforce the lien.
      (7)   Financial provisions shall not be so onerous as to make wind power
projects unfeasible.
(Ord. passed 4-23-2009; Am. Res. 2018-04, passed 4-19-2018; Res. 23-9, passed
5-18-2023)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Title
   
154.002   Purpose
   
154.003   Legal authority
   
154.004   Jurisdiction
   
154.005   Definitions
Approval of Plats
   
154.020   Pre-application phase
   
154.021   Preliminary plat
   
154.022   Final plat
   
154.023   Plat presentation requirements
Design Standards
   
154.035   Compliance with comprehensive plan
   
154.036   Streets and right-of-way
   
154.037   Easements
   
154.038   Block standards
   
154.039   Lot standards
Physical Improvements
   
154.050   Subdivider to provide improvements in accordance with certain
requirements
   
154.051   Engineering drawing required
   
154.052   Construction work to comply with certain specifications
   
154.053   Roads and streets
   
154.054   Storm water drainage facilities
   
154.055   Sanitary sewers
   
154.056   Sidewalks
   
154.057   Monuments
   
154.058   Water supply
   
154.059   Utilities
   
154.060   Landscaping
   
154.061   Street lighting
   
154.062   Street signs
   
154.063   Guarantee of performance
   
154.064   Approval of improvements
   
154.065   Acceptance of streets
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.080   Enforcing Official
   
154.081   Building permit
   
154.082   Fees
   
154.083   Variances
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known and cited as the “Land Subdivision
Regulations of DeWitt County, Illinois”.
(Prior Code, § 151.01) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973)
§ 154.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the subdivision of land within
the county so that new additions will be integrated with the comprehensive plan
for the county and shall contribute to an attractive, stable and wholesome
living environment.
(Prior Code, § 151.02) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973)
§ 154.003 LEGAL AUTHORITY.
   The County Board is hereby granted all of the authority pertaining to
subdivisions as set forth in ILCS Ch. 55, Act 5, § 5-1041.
(Prior Code, § 151.03)
§ 154.004 JURISDICTION.
   Regulations set forth in these subdivision regulations shall apply and be
enforced in all unincorporated areas of the county, (except that, incorporated
municipalities may adopt subdivision regulations to control the plotting of
subdivisions within the adjacent one and one-half mile area of their corporate
limits after the adoption of an official comprehensive plan, and the recording
thereof with the County Clerk).
(Prior Code, § 151.04) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973)
§ 154.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The person appointed by the County Board named in §
155.005.
   ALLEY. A permanent service way providing a secondary means of access to
abutting land.
   AREA GENERAL PLAN. A general plan prepared by the subdivides or subdividers,
for the progressive development of a large landholding, or several properties
proposed to be subdivided by sections, meeting the requirements of these
regulations.
   BLOCK FACE. Property having frontage on one side of a street and lying
between the two nearest intersecting streets, or nearest intersecting of
intercepting street and railroad right-of-way, waterway or other barrier.
   BOULEVARD. A street, other than a freeway or expressway, developed with two-
laned, one-way pavements separated by a landscaped island, median or barrier.
   COLLECTOR HIGHWAY. A rural road (and its extensions in or through villages
or cities), which forms an interconnected network and provides service to
communities, under the administration of the county.
   COMMITTEE. A standing committee appointed by the County Board with authority
to act on subdivision plans or plats or portions thereof, as provided in these
regulations.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The policy document which serves as a guide for the
future physical development of the county, and entitled the county’s
comprehensive plan.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of DeWitt County, Illinois.
   COUNTY ENGINEER. An official employed by the County Board, under the
Illinois Revised Statutes.
   COUNTY RECORDER. The County Recorder of Deeds.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A short street or highway having one end open to traffic and
being permanently terminated by a vehicle turn-around.
   DRAINAGE BASIN. An area of land, which because of the nature of the
topography, collects naturally the surface drainage of the surrounding land.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner of the use of an area of land by the
public, a corporation or persons, for specified uses and purposes and to be
designated as a public or private easement depending on the nature of the use.
   ENGINEER. A professional engineer registered as such and licensed to
practice in the state or qualified to practice as provided in the Illinois
Revised Statutes.
   HALF STREET. The portion of the street right-of-way on either side of a
tract boundary.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The DeWitt-Piatt Bi-County Health Department.
   INTERSECTION STREET. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection
of the lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadway of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
   LAND ACCESS HIGHWAY. Access to farms and land used for agricultural or other
low intensity uses, under the administration a rural road, other than an area
service, collector, major and truck highway, and subdivision street, which
provides of the township road district.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended as a unit
for development or transfer of ownership. The term lot shall include the words
PARCEL, PIECE and PLOT.
   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET (FRONTAGE ROAD). A local street or highway
paralleling, adjacent to and having limited access to a freeway, expressway
collector highway, area service highway or land access highway which provides
direct access to abutting property and protection from through traffic.
   OWNER. Any person having any legal, equitable or beneficial interest in the
land sought to be subdivided.
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE. Any security, which shall be accepted by the county
in lieu of a requirement, that certain public improvements be made prior to
approval of a final plat.
   PERSON. A corporation, firm, partnership, association, agency organization
or any other group acting as a unit as well as a natural person.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Regional Planning Commission of the county.
   PLAT. A map indicating the subdivision prepared and certified by a
registered land surveyor in compliance with these regulations and the Illinois
Revised Statutes.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY (OFFICIAL). A preliminary map, and supporting data,
indicating the proposed layout of the subdivision in sufficient detail to
provide adequate basis for the review by the Committee, meeting the
requirements of these regulations.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS. Street pavements (with or without curb and gutter),
public walkways, monuments, water mains, sanitary and storm sewers, street
signs, culverts and appurtenances to the foregoing items and for use by the
public.
   PUBLIC WALKWAY. A right-of-way dedicated for the purpose of pedestrian
access and indicated so as to connect two or more streets, a street and a
public land parcel or any two public parcels of land.
   ROAD DISTRICT. Each township, for the purposes of these regulations, shall
be and is called a ROAD DISTRICT for all purposes relating to the construction,
repair, maintenance, financing and supervision of townships roads, including
land access highways.
   ROAD DISTRICT HIGHWAY COMMISSIONER. The elected official charged with the
duties and responsibilities as stated in the Illinois Revised Statutes. The
duties include, but are not limited to, inclusion of roads in the district
system, construction and maintenance of district roads, and general charge of
all matters relating to the road district.
   RURAL SUBDIVISION. A subdivision in which the average width of lots is
greater than 150 feet at the setback line.
   SETBACK LINE. A line marking the setback distance from the street line,
which establishes a minimum distance between buildings and the street line.
   STREET (HIGHWAY). A right-of-way, whether designated as a street, highway,
road, land, court, thoroughfare, parkway, freeway, expressway, boulevard or
avenue, other than an alley or place, usually affording the principal means of
access to abutting property.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person engaged in developing or improving a tract of land,
which complies, with the definition of a subdivision as defined in these
regulations.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of land into two or more parts, for the purpose,
whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership or building development.
The following shall not be considered a SUBDIVISION and shall be exempt from
the requirement of these regulations:
      (1)   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of five
acres or more in size which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access;
      (2)   The division of lots or blocks of less than one acre in any
recorded subdivision, which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access;
      (3)   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining
and contiguous land;
      (4)   The conveyance of parcels of land or interest therein for the uses
as a right-of-way for railroads or other public utility facilities and other
pipelines which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
      (5)   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public utility
which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
      (6)   The conveyance of land for highway or other public purposes or
grants or conveyances relating to the dedication of land for public use or
instruments relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use;
      (7)   Conveyances made to correct description in prior conveyance;
      (8)   The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land following the
division into no more than two parts of a particular parcel or tract of land
existing on 7-17-1959 and not involving any streets or easements of access;
      (9)   The sale of a single lot of less than five acres from a larger
tract when a survey is made by a state registered land surveyor; provided that,
this exemption shall not apply to the sale of any subsequent lots from the same
larger tract of land, as determined by the dimensions and configuration of the
larger tract on 10-1-1973; and, provided also that, this exemption does not
invalidate any local requirements applicable to the subdivision of land.
Nothing contained within the provisions of this section or ILCS Ch. 765, Act
205 shall prevent or preclude individual counties from establishing standards,
ordinances or specifications which reduce the acreage minimum to less than five
acres, but not less than two acres, or supplementing the requirements contained
herein when a survey is made by a state registered land surveyor and a plat
thereof is recorded, under the powers granted to them.
   SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS. The guides, principles, specifications and
standards for the preparation of subdivision plans and plats indicating, among
other things, the maximum and minimum dimensions of the various elements set
forth in the area general plan, preliminary plat or final plat.
   SURVEYOR. A land surveyor registered as such, or qualified to practice, in
the state as provided in the Illinois Revised Statutes.
   URBAN SUBDIVISION. A subdivision in which the average width of lots is less
than 150 feet at the setback line.
(Prior Code, § 151.05) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973; Ord. passed 5-12-1994)
APPROVAL OF PLATS
§ 154.020 PRE-APPLICATION PHASE.
   This is the basic policy state, during which the subdivider may meet
informally with the Committee. The subdivider should make known his or her
tentative plans for subdividing and development, and may exhibit sketch plans.
The Committee shall review the proposed subdivision area and shall advise the
subdivider of public policies and objectives.
(Prior Code, § 151.15) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973)
§ 154.021 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   The subdivider engages a registered professional engineer or
registered land surveyor to prepare a preliminary plat of the area to be
subdivided.
   (B)   The subdivider shall submit five copies of the preliminary plat to the
Committee.
   (C)   The Committee shall consider the preliminary plat at a regular meeting
occurring within 30 days following submittal of the preliminary plat. The
Committee shall reject, approve subject to revision or approve the plat at this
meeting. If disapproved the Committee sets forth the grounds for the refusal in
its proceedings and transmits them to the subdivider. If approved, the design
is thereby accepted as a basis for preparation of the final plat.
   (D)   Approval of the preliminary plat shall be effective for one year from
the date of approval.
(Prior Code, § 151.16) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973)
§ 154.022 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The subdivider engages a registered land surveyor to prepare a final
plat, which may constitute only that portion of the preliminary plat, which the
subdivider proposes to record and develop at the time.
   (B)   The subdivider shall submit five copies of the final plat and shall
submit two copies of the final engineering plans to the Committee.
   (C)   The Committee shall approve or disapprove the plat within 30 days
after submission. If the Committee disapproves or rejects the final plat, the
subdivider shall be promptly notified in writing of the reasons for disapproval
or rejection. If approved, the Committee shall submit the final plat to the
County Board for final approval.
   (D)   The County Board shall act upon the final plat within 60 days of
submittal whereupon the County Clerk notifies the subdivider of the County
Board’s action.
   (E)   Upon approval of the final plat by the County Board, the subdivider
shall record the plat with the County Recorder of Deeds within six months. If
not recorded within this time, the approval shall be null and void.
   (F)   The recording of a plat shall not be construed to mean acceptance of
the required physical improvements constructed or installed in the subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 151.17) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973; Res. passed 7-11-1978)
§ 154.023 PLAT PRESENTATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Preliminary plat.
      (1)   Scale: one inch equals 100 feet;
      (2)   Identification and description:
         (a)   Proposed name of subdivision, landowner’s, engineer’s and
surveyor’s names and addresses;
         (b)   Location by section, township and range; and
         (c)   Graphic scale, north arrow and date of preparation.
      (3)   Existing conditions in the tract and in the surrounding area:
         (a)   Boundary line of proposed subdivision;
         (b)   Total approximate acreage;
         (c)   Platted streets, railroad right-of-way and utility easements;
         (d)   Boundary lines and ownership of adjoining subdivided land;
         (e)   Location and identification of all recorded subdivisions lying
adjacent to or across a public right-of-way;
         (f)   Sewers, water mains, culverts or other underground facilities;
         (g)   Permanent buildings or structures; and
         (h)   Topography showing water courses, marsh areas and contours at
vertical intervals of no more than two feet.
      (4)   Subdivision design features:
         (a)   Layout and width of proposed streets and utility easements
showing street names, lot dimensions, parks and other public areas. The street
layout shall include all contiguous land owned or controlled by subdivider;
         (b)   Proposed use of all parcels and, if a zoning change is
contemplated, proposed rezoning;
         (c)   Preliminary street grades shall be shown on a copy of the
contour map;
         (d)   Provisions for water supply, sewage disposal, storm water
disposal and subsurface drainage;
         (e)   Draft of protective covenants (if any), whereby the subdivider
proposes to regulate land use and otherwise protect the purposed development;
         (f)   The subdivider shall send a copy of the preliminary plat to all
applicable public utility companies, prior to submission of the plat to the
Committee, requesting those public utility companies to comment as to the
acceptability of the various easements, as proposed by the subdivider. The
subdivider shall supply the Committee with copies of all correspondence sent to
the public utility companies, and shall also supply the Committee with copies
of all responses from the public utility companies;
         (g)   The subdivider shall send a copy of the preliminary plat to the
State Department of Transportation with respect to the acceptability of the
proposed roadway access if the access is onto a roadway under the jurisdiction
of the state, or to the County Engineer if the access is onto a roadway under
the jurisdiction of the county, or to the County Engineer and the Road District
Commissioner of the relevant local highway authority with respect to the access
if the proposed roadway access is onto a township road. The subdivider shall
submit to the Committee copies of all correspondence between the subdivider and
applicable highway authority;
         (h)   The subdivider shall send a copy of the preliminary plat, along
with a copy of all preliminary construction plans, to the Health Department.
The Health Department shall review the submitted plans for a determination as
to their acceptability for an adequate supply and distribution of water within
the subdivision and proper sewage disposal. The Health Department shall supply
the Committee with a written statement as to the acceptability of the proposed
preliminary plans. The written statement shall inform the Committee of the
means by which water will be distributed to the various lots and the method of
sewage disposal. The statements shall specifically state whether the proposed
plans meet the requirements of the State and County Health Departments. If the
proposed plans do not meet with the approval of the Health Department, the
statement shall include the manner in which the plans will need to be modified
to conform to the requirements; and
         (i)   Within three business days after the preliminary plat is
submitted for approval, the President of the School Board and the
Superintendent of Schools in which the subdivided land is located shall be
notified in writing that the plat has been submitted for approval and that it
is available for public inspection. The notice shall state the anticipated
date, time and place of the meeting in which the subdivision will be considered
for approval. The notices shall be by certified mail, return receipt requested,
or delivered in person. Failure to provide such notices shall not invalidate
the plat.
   (B)   Final plat.
      (1)   Plans for water supply, sewage disposal, drainage and flood
control;
      (2)   Soil borings, if required by the Committee;
      (3)   Name of the proposed subdivision;
      (4)   A scale of not less than one inch to 100 feet;
      (5)   Location by quarter section, section, township, range, meridian,
county and state;
      (6)   Date and north arrow;
      (7)   Boundary of the plat, based on an accurate traverse, with angles
and lineal dimensions;
      (8)   The description and location of all survey monuments;
      (9)   Survey data sufficient to reproduce any line or reestablish any
monument;
      (10)   A graphic representation with lengths and widths of all highways,
streets, alleys, places, blocks, lots, parcels, public grounds, easements and
right-of-way;
      (11)   A graphic representation of the minimum setback lines on all lots
and parcels, and a notation of the distance between the lines and the street
line;
      (12)   Consecutive numbers on all lots;
      (13)   The name of each street printed on the graphic representation of
the street, and an appropriate label designating all other easements, right-of-
way, setback lines, dedications and reservations;
      (14)   Abutting street lines of platted, adjoining subdivisions shown in
their correct location by broken (dashed) lines;
      (15)   The following notation: “A part of the property covered by this
plat is (is not) situated within 500 feet of a surface drain or watercourse
serving a tributary area of 640 acres or more”;
      (16)   Protective covenants, which meet with the approval of the
Committee, shall be lettered on the final plat or attached thereto; and
      (17)   Accompanying documents shall consist of:
         (a)   Engineering plans. Three complete sets of all final engineering
plans, designs, layouts and specifications of all physical improvements
required by §§
154.050 through
154.065. One complete set each will be filed with the County Clerk, the County
Engineer and with the Department of Planning and Zoning.
         (b)   Owner’s certificate. Notarized certification, by owner or owners
or by any mortgage holder of record, of the adoption of the plat and the
dedication of streets and other public areas.
         (c)   Surveyor’s certificate. The surveyor’s certificate shall include
the name, signature, number and seal of the registered land surveyor; and shall
be dated; and shall include a legal description of the tract of land subdivided
and further certify that the tract of land has been surveyed and the monuments
set as shown on the attached plat.
         (d)   County Clerk’s certificate.
 
I,                                           , County Clerk of DeWitt County, Illinois, do hereby certify that I have
received all plat fees and the required guarantee of performance in connection with the attached plat. Given under my
hand and seal at Clinton, Illinois, this           day of                 A.D., 20       .
 
         (e)   Certificate of the County Engineer.
 
I,                                       , County Engineer of DeWitt County, Illinois, do hereby certify that the attached plat has been
examined by me and found to comply with highway requirements, as set forth in the regulations governing plats of subdivided land and adopted
by the DeWitt County Board.
Dated this               day of                      A.D., 20            .
County Engineer                                                               
 
         (f)   County Board certificate.
 
Approved by the County Board of DeWitt County, Illinois, at a meeting held this          day of                   A.D., 20        .
Chairperson of the County Board                                        
County Clerk                                                                    
 
         (g)   County Health Department certificate.
 
I,                                , Administrator of the DeWitt-Piatt Bi-
County Health Department, DeWitt and Piatt Counties, Illinois, do hereby certify that the attached plats have been
examined by said Department and have been found to comply with all applicable State and County public health
requirements.
Dated this                day of                        A.D., 20          .
Administrator, County Health Department                            
 
         (h)   Acknowledgment. A written, signed acknowledgment by the
applicable highway authority, as specified herein, stating that the provision
(s) for access have been found acceptable as shown on the final plat and
accompanying engineering plans.
(Prior Code, § 151.18) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973; Res. passed 7-11-1978; Ord.
passed 4-12-1990; Res. passed 5-12-1994)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 154.035 COMPLIANCE WITH COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   The subdivision of land, including the arrangement, character, extent,
width, grade and location of all streets, alleys or other land to be dedicated
for public use shall conform to the comprehensive plan for the development of
the entire area; and shall be considered in their relation to existing and
planned streets, to topographical conditions, to public convenience and safety,
and in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served
by the streets.
(Prior Code, § 151.19) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973)
§ 154.036 STREETS AND RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The design of all streets shall be considered in their relation to
existing and planned streets, to reasonable circulation of traffic, to
topographical conditions, to runoff of storm water, to public convenience and
safety, and in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land to
be served by the streets.
   (B)   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed
expressway or primary street, the Committee may require marginal access
streets, deep lots with rear service alleys or other treatment as may be
necessary for adequate protection of residential properties to afford
separation of through and local traffic.
   (C)   Proposed streets shall, as near as practicable, provide for the
continuation, connection or projection of streets in surrounding areas, or
conform to a plan for a neighborhood as may have been adopted by the Regional
Planning Commission.
   (D)   Dead-end, or stub-end, streets are prohibited. However, where it is
necessary to provide circulation to undeveloped property adjacent to the
boundaries of the proposed subdivision, a temporary cul-de-sac with a turn-
around radius of not less than 75 feet shall be provided within the subdivision
and adjacent to its limit for what would otherwise be a stub-end street.
Provision will be made by the subdivider that when the right-of-way is extended
into the adjacent property, that portion of the turn-around in excess of the
right-of-way width will revert to the adjacent property owner or owners.
   (E)   Reserve strips controlling access to streets or alleys shall be
prohibited.
   (F)   All streets shall be named, and the names of the streets in proposed
plats shall be chosen as to avoid confusion or duplication with existing street
names.
   (G)   Half streets shall be prohibited. In case a half street is adjacent to
a tract to be subdivided, the other half of the street shall be platted within
the tract.
   (H)   Maximum length of permanent cul-de-sac streets shall be 500 feet
measured from the centerline of the intersection street to the center of the
turning circle. Each cul-de-sac shall be provided at the closed end with a
turn-around having a minimum roadway diameter of 100 feet, and a maximum street
property line diameter of 120 feet. No cul-de-sac may intersect with another
cul-de-sac.
   (I)   Alleys in residential developments will be prohibited. Service
roadways may be required in commercial and industrial developments, except
where other provisions for suitable access and off-street loading and unloading
are assured.
   (J)   Street jogs shall be prohibited.
   (K)   The angle of the intersection between local streets and major streets
shall not vary by more than ten degrees from a right angle. All other streets
should intersect each other as near to a right angle as possible and no
intersection of streets at angles of less than 70 degrees shall be permitted.
   (L)   Edge of surface course or curb line shall be designed with 30-foot
minimum radius turnout. Additional right-of-way shall be provided as needed.
   (M)   Major streets shall be designed with curves having a centerline radius
of not less than 500 feet, except where a lesser radius is deemed safe and
adequate to the public need. All other streets shall be designed with curves
having a centerline radius of not less than 250 feet. There shall be a minimum
tangent distance of 100 feet between reverse curves.
   (N)   The intersections of a subdivision street with any existing highway
shall be designed as specified by the agency having maintenance authority.
   (O)   Street grades:
      (1)   Maximum: 7%; and
      (2)   Minimum: 0.40%.
   (P)   Minimum standards for surface width, shoulder width and right-of-way:
      (1)   Urban section (lots average less than 150 feet at the street
setback line).
Street Type Right-of-Way (footage) Surface Width (footage) Shoulder
Street Type        Right-of-Way (footage) Surface Width (footage) Shoulder
Alleys             25                     16                      *
Boulevard          100                    24                      7
Collector highway  80                     22                      5
Cul-de-sac         60                     26#                     *
Land access        60                     22                      *
Subdivision street 60                     36#                     *
NOTES TO TABLE:
*No gutters required
# Includes face to face of curb
 
      (2)   Rural section (lots average more than 150 feet at the street
setback line).
 
Street Type         Right-of-Way (footage) Surface Width (footage) Shoulder
Collector highway   80                     22                      7
Cul-de-sac          60                     22                      5
Land access highway 60                     22                      5
Subdivision street  60                     22                      5
 
(Prior Code, § 151.20) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973)
§ 154.037 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Easements shall be provided for any overhead or underground utility
service including, but not limited to, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, water, gas,
telephone and electric. The easements shall have a minimum width of ten feet.
Where it is intended that both overhead and underground utilities shall have a
minimum width of ten feet. Where it is intended that both overhead and
underground utilities shall share the same easement, additional width
sufficient to avoid conflict shall be provided. To the extent possible,
easements shall be established along rear lot lines to provide continuity of
alignment throughout the subdivision.
   (B)   When a subdivision is bordered or traversed by an established stream,
established drainage way or channel, there shall be provided a storm water
easement or drainage right-of-way conforming substantially with the lines of
same, and the easement shall include an additional area of sufficient width to
permit maintenance and any improvement or reconstruction of the stream,
drainage way or channel, in the foreseeable future.
(Prior Code, § 151.21) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973)
§ 154.038 BLOCK STANDARDS.
   (A)   In urban subdivisions, block lengths shall not exceed 1,200 feet.
   (B)   In rural subdivisions, block lengths shall not exceed 2,000 feet.
   (C)   Blocks over 1,200 feet long, may require a cross-walk easement not
less than ten feet in width, if necessary, to provide proper access to schools,
play grounds, shopping centers and other facilities.
(Prior Code, § 151.22) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973)
§ 154.039 LOT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Where possible, side lot lines shall be at right angles to straight
street lines or radial or curved street lines. Lots with frontage on two
parallel streets shall be avoided, except where one street is an arterial feed
or highway with no direct access to the lot.
   (B)   Lot dimensions and area shall not be less than the requirements of
Chapter 155, the County Zoning Code. In subdivisions not providing full
community sewer and water facilities, increased area will be required in
instances where the need is indicated by the Health Department’s
investigations.
(Prior Code, § 151.23) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973)
PHYSICAL IMPROVEMENTS
§ 154.050 SUBDIVIDER TO PROVIDE IMPROVEMENTS IN ACCORDANCE WITH CERTAIN
REQUIREMENTS.
   The subdivider shall provide and install all public improvements, as
required by this code. Improvements shall be provided and installed in
accordance with the standards and engineering requirements established by these
regulations as well as any and all standards and requirements adopted by other
local, state and federal authorities which may have jurisdiction of the area
being subdivided.
(Prior Code, § 151.35) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973)
§ 154.051 ENGINEERING DRAWING REQUIRED.
   (A)   The subdivider shall prepare two copies of all final engineering
plans, drawings, designs and specifications as required in this subchapter,
with those plans, designs, drawings and specifications, to be filed with the
County Clerk upon approval of the final plat by the County Board, and prior to
the final plat being recorded.
   (B)   The engineering drawings shall be prepared by an engineer qualified to
practice in the state.
(Prior Code, § 151.36) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973; Res. passed 7-11-1978)
§ 154.052 CONSTRUCTION WORK TO COMPLY WITH CERTAIN SPECIFICATIONS.
   Unless otherwise specified, all construction work shall be in accordance
with the provisions of the current issue of the Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction, prepared by the Department of Transportation,
Division of Highways, including special provisions.
(Prior Code, § 151.37) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973)
§ 154.053 ROADS AND STREETS.
   (A)   Pavement construction for all streets, highways and alleys shall
consist of a minimum base course, constructed of compacted six-inch aggregate
base, type B, with an A-3 bituminous surface treatment or equivalent.
   (B)   Where required, gutters or combination curb and gutters, shall be
constructed of portland cement concrete, not less than 24 inches in width and
not less than six inches thick.
(Prior Code, § 151.38) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973)
§ 154.054 STORM WATER DRAINAGE FACILITIES.
   (A)   The subdivider shall construct storm water drainage facilities, which
may include curbs and gutters, catch basins and inlets, storm sewers, road
ditches and open channels, as may be required. All these facilities must be
designed and constructed to hydraulically accommodate maximum potential volumes
of flow.
   (B)   Cross road culverts shall have a minimum diameter of 18 inches or
equivalent.
   (C)   Entrance culverts shall have a minimum diameter of 12 inches and be at
least 24 feet long; shall be constructed pursuant to ILCS Ch. 605, Act 5, § 9-
105. No non-rain water shall be discharged any closer than ten feet from the
property line.
   (D)   The agency that will have the maintenance responsibility of the street
system must be consulted as to the acceptance of the drainage system.
(Prior Code, § 151.39) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973; Ord. passed 2-24-2005) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.055 SANITARY SEWERS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall construct sanitary sewers in a manner as to make
adequate sanitary sewerage service available to each lot within the
subdivision. If public sewer facilities are not available, the subdivider shall
make provisions for adequate private sewage disposal systems as specified by
the county. No non-rain water shall be discharged any closer than ten feet from
the property line.
   (B)   (1)   The Committee may require the installation of sewer laterals to
the street lot line.
      (2)   If, at the time of final platting, sanitary sewer facilities are
not available to the plat, but will become available within a period of five
years from the date of plat recording, the subdivider shall install or cause to
be installed sanitary sewers and sewer laterals to the street lot line in
accordance with this section and shall cap all laterals as may be specified by
the Committee.
(Prior Code, § 151.40) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973; Res. passed 2-24-2005)
§ 154.056 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Sidewalks shall have a minimum width of four feet and a minimum
thickness of four inches, except across driveways, where the minimum thickness
shall be six inches.
   (B)   Sidewalks shall be installed on both sides of all streets where the
average lot frontage is less than 100 feet.
   (C)   Sidewalks shall be installed on one side of all streets where the
average lot frontage is less than 200 feet.
   (D)   Where the average lot frontage is greater than 200 feet, the Committee
may require the sidewalks, as it deems necessary to provide for the safety of
pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 151.41) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973)
§ 154.057 MONUMENTS.
   (A)   Permanent monuments shall be placed at all corners and at points of
tangency of curve lines along the boundary of the subdivision. Permanent
monuments shall be of concrete with minimum dimensions of four inches in
diameter and 36 inches long.
   (B)   All corners not marked by concrete monuments shall be marked by
galvanized or wrought iron pipe or iron or steel bars at least 30 inches in
length and not less than one-half inch in diameter. The top of the pipe or bar
is to be set level with the established grade of the ground.
   (C)   In addition, a minimum of one permanent benchmark shall be established
for each subdivision of 20 acres or more. This monument shall be of concrete
with a minimum dimension of four inches diameter at the top; and six inches
diameter at the bottom; and 48 inches long, with a brass plate securely
fastened to the surface. On the brass plate shall be inscribed the number and
elevation of the benchmark.
(Prior Code, § 151.42) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973)
§ 154.058 WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   The subdivider shall construct water mains in a manner as to make
adequate water service available to each lot within the subdivision.
   (B)   If public water service is not available, the subdivider shall make
provisions for adequate private water systems as specified by the county.
   (C)   The Committee may require the installation of water laterals to the
street lot line.
   (D)   The size, type and installation of all public water mains proposed to
be constructed shall be in accordance with the plans and standard
specifications approved by the Committee.
(Prior Code, § 151.43) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973)
§ 154.059 UTILITIES.
   All utility lines for telephone and electric services shall be placed in
rear line easements when carried on overhead poles.
(Prior Code, § 151.44) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973)
§ 154.060 LANDSCAPING.
   All improved areas within the dedicated street area shall be graded and
seeded in an approved manner. Street trees may be required (not more than one
per lot) and planted in the public street right-of-way at locations approved by
the Committee.
(Prior Code, § 151.45) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973)
§ 154.061 STREET LIGHTING.
   Street lighting may be required of a design compatible with the neighborhood
and type of development proposed.
(Prior Code, § 151.46) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973)
§ 154.062 STREET SIGNS.
   The subdivider shall install street signs at the intersections of all
streets proposed to be dedicated, a street sign of a design approved by the
Committee. All signs shall meet County Highway Department specifications.
(Prior Code, § 151.47) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973; Res. passed 2-24-2005) Penalty,
§
154.999
§ 154.063 GUARANTEE OF PERFORMANCE.
   (A)   General. A guarantee of performance is required guaranteeing that all
of the required improvements will be constructed as approved by the County
Board.
   (B)   Estimated cost. The subdivider shall have his or her engineer prepare
an estimate of the total cost of all the required improvements. The engineer’s
estimate shall include the cost of labor, materials, inspection services and
certifications. The estimate shall also include the quantities and construction
specifications for the required improvements. The estimate shall be reviewed
and approved by the Committee upon written approval of the County Engineer. A
copy of the County Engineer’s approval shall be provided to the subdivider and
the Administrator.
   (C)   Performance of guarantee. The performance guarantee shall be in one of
the following forms.
      (1)   Escrow account. The subdivider shall provide an escrow account
agreement to the Administrator to be held by a local bank or savings and loan
institution conditioned upon the satisfactory completion of the required
improvements, which are required by this section to exist in the subdivision.
The amount of the account shall be equal to 125% of the total estimated cost of
the improvements, as estimated by a registered professional engineer, along
with a written statement of approval by the County Engineer. All withdrawals
from the account shall be subject to the written release of the Committee upon
a written certification by the subdivider’s engineer and the County Engineer
that the required improvements for which a withdrawal is being requested have
been fully completed and have been constructed and/or installed in conformity
with the plans approved by the county. A minimum of 25% of the escrow account
shall remain on deposit until the expiration of two years from the date of
certified completion of the required improvements and final inspection and
written certification by the County Engineer. The form of all escrow accounts
or escrow agreements shall be subject to approval by the State’s Attorney.
      (2)   Irrevocable letter of credit. In lieu of an escrow account, the
subdivider shall provide an irrevocable letter of credit to the Administrator
from a local bank or savings and loan institution conditioned upon the
satisfactory completion of the required improvements, which are required by
this section to exist in the subdivision. The amount of the irrevocable letter
of credit shall be equal to 125% of the total estimated cost of the
improvements, as estimated by a registered professional engineer, along with a
written statement of approval by the County Engineer. All withdrawals from the
irrevocable letter of credit shall be subject to the written release of the
Committee upon written certification by the subdivider’s engineer and the
County Engineer that the required improvements for which is being requested
have constructed and/or installed in conformity with the plans approved by the
county. A minimum of 25% of the irrevocable letter of credit shall remain in
effect until the expiration of two years from the date of certified completion
of the required improvements and final inspection and written certification by
the County Engineer. The form of all irrevocable letters of credit shall be
subject to approval by the State’s Attorney.
   (D)   Inspections required. All construction and installation of work
performed on the required improvements shall be inspected by a registered
professional engineer at the subdivider’s expense. The subdivider shall require
that a registered professional engineer shall be on the job site at times
during the process of construction activities and shall periodically inspect
the installation and construction of all required improvements to ensure that
the development is constructed in compliance with the plans approved by the
county. When the work has been completed the registered professional engineer
shall provide written certifications that the improvements were inspected
during actual construction by the engineer and that the improvements were
constructed or installed in complete conformity with the approved plans and
specifications. All work shall also be subject to inspection and will be
inspected in a timely manner by the County Engineer. Any work shall also be
subject at all times to inspection by another affected department, agency,
utility or entity.
   (E)   Notification and timing of inspections. Before the start of
construction on any required improvements in the subdivision, the subdivider
shall ascertain from the County Engineer and any other affected department,
agency, utility or entity, what inspections are required and the amount of
notification required in each case, and shall comply with all rules,
regulations and instructions to the required inspections.
   (F)   Subdivider responsibility for inspections and compliance. Regardless
of contracts, agreements or inspections performed, responsibility for the
inspection of the required improvements during and after completion of the
construction and complete compliance with the plans, drawings and
specifications as approved by the county shall be the responsibility of the
subdivider.
   (G)   Submission of as built plans. At the end of the two-year period in
which the 25% of the performance guarantee has been held, and prior to release
of the remaining 25% of the guarantee, the subdivider shall submit five sets of
plans and specifications to the Administrator which accurately and completely
depict the required improvements as they were actually constructed and
installed.
   (H)   Release of performance guarantee.
      (1)   The balance of the performance guarantee shall be released upon
expiration of the two-year period and upon final inspection and certification
on the installation and testing of the required improvements by the County
Engineer. The County Engineer shall provide written certification to the
Committee that the required improvements have been completed, a list of all
deficiencies which have occurred during the past two years, the actions taken
by the subdivider to correct these deficiencies, and that the required
improvements have been inspected, tested and found in conformity with the
subdivision plans as approved by the county.
      (2)   Upon these certifications of inspection and acceptability, the
Committee shall have prepared a written release to the local bank or savings
and loan institution where the performance guarantee is held notifying them of
the final inspections and that the remaining 25% may be released.
(Prior Code, § 151.48) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973; Ord. passed 5-12-1994; Res.
passed 2-24-2005)
§ 154.064 APPROVAL OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Option (1). When street and drainage improvements and all
appurtenances thereto, based on approved engineering drawings have been
constructed or installed and have passed all inspections, the County Engineer
shall provide the developer with a letter of approval and certification of
completion. The streets shall then be tendered by the subdivider to the Road
District Highway Commissioner for acceptance.
      (2)   Option (2).
         (a)   The subdivider may request approval of the completed improvement
and acceptance of the improvements as public streets at the time that all
construction and installation, excepting construction of the surface material,
having been completed.
         (b)   The approval and acceptance procedures will be permitted to
proceed at the time provided a portion of the performance guarantee equal to
125% of the cost to complete the surface material construction as provided in
the approved engineer’s estimate, plus 25% of the amount of the irrevocable
letter of credit on file, as per §
154.063(H).
         (c)   The total amount to be retained for two years from the date of
street acceptance. The portion so retained shall be used, in addition to any
and all other requirements, to reimburse the accepting highway authority’s cost
in repairing all deficiencies which may arise and to complete construction of
the surface material on the streets.
   (B)   When any required sewer or water improvement or health facility is
intended for public ownership, based on approved engineering drawings, has been
constructed or installed and has passed all inspections, the appropriate public
agency shall provide the subdivider with a letter of approval and
certification.
   (C)   When any required sewer or water improvement is not intended for
public ownership, the appropriate operation agency shall provide the subdivider
with a letter of approval and certification.
(Prior Code, § 151.49) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973; Res. passed 2-24-2005)
§ 154.065 ACCEPTANCE OF STREETS.
   Upon completion of construction of the required physical improvements, and
inspection and approval by the County Engineer, the Highway Commissioner of the
road district having jurisdiction of the subdivision shall furnish the
subdivider a copy of the completed form of acceptance of streets, as follows:
 
                       ROAD DISTRICT
ACCEPTANCE OF STREETS
The Highway Commissioner of                    Road District hereby agrees to accept the streets in                       subdivision in the
                   of Section               Township                 N, Range                 E, of the                 P.M., the subdivision consisting of
                        +/- miles of streets.
The Road District will maintain the streets, including snow removal, surface drainage of the streets, as it exists at the time of acceptance, existing
culverts and surfacing of the streets as constructed.
All additional entrance culverts required shall be furnished by others, subject to the approval of the Road District Highway Commissioner as to type and
size.
Dated this               day of                        , 20              .
                                                                              
Highway Commissioner of                      Road District
Filed this            day of                   , 20               _.
CC:
Subdivider
Highway Commissioner
County Engineer
Town Clerk
Committee
 
(Prior Code, § 151.50) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.080 ENFORCING OFFICIAL.
   It shall be the duty of the County Board to see that the provisions of this
chapter are properly enforced.
(Prior Code, § 151.60) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973)
§ 154.081 BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   Certification of the subbase and aggregate by the County Engineer may
enable the developer to apply for building permits. The certification of the
subbase and aggregate is, in no way, considered the final approval and the
governing official will not consider the certified streets public streets until
the final acceptance.
   (B)   A maximum of two building permits may be issued by the governing
official for the construction of any building, structure or improvement on any
land henceforth subdivided, after the subbase and aggregate is certified by the
County Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 151.61) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973; Ord. passed 2-24-2005) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.082 FEES.
   Subdivision plat and recording fees shall be established by the County
Board, in accordance with the state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 151.62) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973)
§ 154.083 VARIANCES.
   Where there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the way
of carrying out the strict letter of the provisions of these regulations, the
County Board shall have the power to vary from the requirements in harmony with
the general purposes and intent thereof.
(Prior Code, § 151.63) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than $100 or by imprisonment not
to exceed 90 days. Each day a violation is allowed to continue it shall be
construed as a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 151.99) (Ord. passed 9-10-1973)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Title
   
155.002   Statutory authorization
   
155.003   Purpose
   
155.004   Intent
   
155.005   Definitions
   
155.006   Interpretation
   
155.007   Jurisdiction; compliance
   
155.008   Use restrictions
   
155.009   Site restrictions
   
155.010   General development
   
155.011   Abrogation and greater restrictions
Zoning District Boundaries and Maps
   
155.025   Zoning districts established
   
155.026   Zoning map directory
   
155.027   Interpretation of zoning district boundaries
   
155.028   Annexed territory
Districts Use Regulations
   
155.040   Agricultural district
   
155.041   RD-1 Rural Development-1 District
   
155.042   RD-2 Rural Development-2 District
   
155.043   RD-3 Rural Development-3 District
   
155.044   R-1 Low Density Single-Family Residential District
   
155.045   R-2 High Density Single-Family Residential District
   
155.046   R-3 Multi-Family Residential District
   
155.047   R-4 Mobile Home Residential
   
155.048   B-1 General Commercial District
   
155.049   B-2 Convenience Commercial District
   
155.050   B-3 Highway Commercial District
   
155.051   I General Industrial District
   
155.052   FP Floodplain District
   
155.053   Schedule of permitted uses, prohibited uses, and special permit uses
by district
Area Regulations
   
155.065   District lot regulations
Special Use Regulations
   
155.080   Application
   
155.081   Performance standards
   
155.082   Off-street parking requirements
   
155.083   Off-street loading and unloading requirements
   
155.084   Signs
   
155.085   Kennels; veterinary establishments
   
155.086   Country club; golf course
   
155.087   Golf driving ranges and amusement parks
   
155.088   Cemeteries; crematories; columbariums
   
155.089   Hospitals, churches or other religious or eleemosynary institutions
   
155.090   Shooting club
   
155.091   Amusement centers, bowling alleys, dance halls and similar places of
amusement
   
155.092   Apartments; multi-family dwellings
   
155.093   Standards for home occupation
   
155.094   Special commercial developments
   
155.095   Mobile home rules and regulations
   
155.096   Modifications and exceptions
   
155.097   Single-family dwellings
   
155.098   Landscape waste composting facility
Non-Conforming Uses and Structures
   
155.110   Existing non-conforming land or building
   
155.111   Non-conforming buildings
   
155.112   Non-conforming use of land
   
155.113   Exceptions
Administration and Enforcement
   
155.125   Zoning Administrator
   
155.126   Permits required
   
155.127   Board of Zoning Appeals
   
155.128   Planning Commission duties in zoning administration
   
155.129   Variances
   
155.130   Special use permits
   
155.131   Amendments
   
155.132   Fees
 
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as, referred to or cited as the “Revised Zoning
Code of DeWitt County, Illinois”.
(Prior Code, § 152.001) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024)
§ 155.002 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   These regulations are adopted under the authority of the state statutes. The
County Board does hereby ordain this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.002) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024)
§ 155.003 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To maintain and preserve all of the agricultural lands of the county;
   (B)   To control the growth and development so as to avoid the admixture of
urban and rural uses in the county, while preserving property values;
   (C)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, morals, comforts and
general welfare of the people;
   (D)   To divide the county and those incorporated municipalities which have
not adopted their own zoning ordinances into zones or districts restricting and
regulating therein the location, erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration and use of buildings, structures and land for residential, business
and manufacturing and other specified uses;
   (E)   To protect the character and the stability of the residential,
business and manufacturing areas within this chapter’s geographic jurisdiction,
and to promote the orderly and beneficial development of the areas;
   (F)   To provide adequate light, air, privacy and convenience of access to
property;
   (G)   To regulate the intensity of use of lot areas and to determine the
area of open spaces surrounding buildings necessary to provide adequate light
and air to protect the public health;
   (H)   To establish building lines and the location of buildings designed for
residential, business, manufacturing or other uses within the areas;
   (I)   To fix reasonable standards to which buildings or structures shall
conform;
   (J)   To prohibit uses, buildings or structures incompatible with the
character of development or intended uses within specified zoning districts;
and
   (K)   To prevent additions or alterations or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures in a way as to avoid the restrictions and limitations
imposed hereunder:
      (1)   To limit congestion by providing for the off-street parking of
motor vehicles and the loading of commercial vehicles in the interest of the
public health, safety, convenience and general welfare;
      (2)   To protect against fire, explosion, noxious fumes and other hazards
in the interest of the public health, safety, comfort and general welfare;
      (3)   To prevent the overcrowding of land and undue concentrations of
structures, so far as is possible and appropriate in each district, by
regulating the use and bulk of buildings in relation to the land surrounding
them;
      (4)   To conserve the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
geographic jurisdiction of this chapter;
      (5)   To provide for the elimination of non-conforming use of land,
buildings and structures which are adversely affecting the character and value
of desirable development in each district; and
      (6)   To define and limit the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies as provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 152.003) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 4-14-1981; Ord.
passed 6-20-2024)
§ 155.004 INTENT.
   The intent of this chapter is to divide the county and those incorporated
municipalities which have not adopted their own zoning ordinance into districts
for the purpose of classifying, regulating and restricting the location of
trades, industries and commercial enterprises, and the location of buildings
arranged, intended and designed for specified uses, or regulating and limiting
the height and bulk of buildings hereafter erected, or classifying, regulating
and determining the area of front, rear and side yards, courts and other open
spaces about buildings and of regulating and limiting the intensity of the use
of the land and lot areas within the geographic area of jurisdiction; creating
a Board of Zoning Appeals; defining certain terms used in this chapter;
providing penalties for its violation and designating the time when this
chapter shall take effect.
(Prior Code, § 152.004) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024)
§ 155.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A building on the same lot with the main or principal
structure, or the main or principal use, either detached from or attached to
the main or principal structure, and is subordinate to and used for purposes
customarily incidental to the main or principal structure or the main or
principal use.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure on the same lot with the main or principal
structure, or the main or principal use, either detached from or attached to
the main or principal structure, and is subordinate to and used for purposes
customarily incidental to the main or principal structure or the main or
principal use.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use on the same lot, incidental and subordinate to the main
or principal use or the main or principal structure.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The principal person authorized by the County Board to carry
out the provisions of this chapter; the Administrator of the County Department
of Planning and Zoning.
   AGRICULTURE. Land, or land, buildings and structures, the principal uses of
which are growing of farm or truck garden crops and one or more of the
following: dairying, pasturage, agriculture, horticulture, floriculture,
viticulture or animal and poultry husbandry, and accessory uses customarily
incidental to agricultural activities including, but not limited to, the farm
dwelling, dwellings for tenant farmers and full-time hired farm workers and
dwellings or lodging rooms for seasonal workers. All buildings and structures
housing poultry or livestock shall be located no nearer than 200 feet from a
residence district boundary line.
   AGRITOURISM. An agricultural operation open to the public, that conducts
activities in conjunction with defined principal agricultural uses for the
purpose of entertaining or educating visitors about local agriculture. The
onsite marketing and sales of products and services will be allowed when in
conjunction with the agricultural operation.
   AIRPORT. Any area of land which is used, or intended for use, for the
landing and taking off of aircraft; and any appurtenant areas which are used
for or intended for the use of airport buildings or other airport facilities or
rights-of-way including all necessary taxiways, pads, aircraft storage and tie-
down areas, hangars and other necessary accessory buildings and open spaces.
AIRPORT does not include a private landing strip.
   ALLEY. A special public right-of-way affording only secondary access to
abutting properties.
   ALTERATION. A change in size, shape, character, occupancy or use of a
building or structure.
   ANIMAL HOSPITAL. Any building or portion thereof designed or used for the
care, observation or treatment of domestic animals.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A building, or portion thereof or premises used
for dispensing, or offering for sale at retail, gasoline when stored only
underground in tanks, kerosene, lubricating oil or grease, for operation of
automobiles, and where tires, batteries and similar automobile accessories may
be offered for sale on the premises at retail, including minor services and
installations customarily incidental thereto; and facilities. Open storage
shall be limited to no more than four vehicles stored for minor repair. The
storage shall not exceed 72 hours duration and shall not permit storage of
wrecked vehicles for more than 15 days.
   AWNING. A roof-like mechanism, retractable in operation and covered with
flexible textured material, which projects from the wall of a building.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-YEAR FLOOD. The base
flood elevation at any location as is defined in this section.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The protection standard in the base flood according to
the best, most current data available to the county. Whenever a person or party
disagrees with this best available data, he, she or they may finance the
detailed engineering study needed to replace the best available data and submit
it to both the county and the state water survey. The county shall not be
responsible or required to conduct additional engineering studies to determine
a new BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
      (1)   The BASE FLOOD ELEVATION for the special flood hazard areas of
North Fork Salt Creek, Salt Creek, Tenmile Creek, Coon Creek and Trenkle Slough
shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the Flood Insurance
Study of the county’s areas prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
and dated 9-29-1989.
      (2)   The base flood information for each of the remaining special flood
hazard areas delineated as an “A Zone” on the Flood Insurance Rate Map shall be
based on the best available data available to the county in the following
order:
         (a)   Engineering data, based on the BASE FLOOD ELEVATION as
determined for federal, state, county or township bridge construction, or
similar studies;
         (b)   The State Water Survey’s Floodplain Information Repository; and
         (c)   The 100-year flood depth calculated according to the formulas
presented in Depth and Frequency of Floods in Illinois, published by the U.S.
Geologic Survey.
   BASEMENT. The portion of any structure located partly below the average
adjoining lot grade.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. An operator occupied residence providing accommodations
for a charge to the public with no more than five guest rooms for rent.
Breakfast shall be provided for the guest only. BED AND BREAKFAST
establishments shall not include motels, hotels, boarding houses, or food
service establishments.
   BOARDING HOUSE (ROOMING OR LODGING HOUSE). A residential building, a portion
thereof other than a motel, apartment hotel or hotel containing lodging rooms
for accommodation of three or more persons who are not members of the keeper’s
family and where lodging or meals or both are provided by prearrangement and
for definite periods at a definite prearranged price.
   BORROW PIT. A place or premises where soil, peat, sand, gravel or other
material is removed by excavation or otherwise, for any purpose other than that
necessary and incidental to grading or to building construction or operation on
the premises.
   BUILDING. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by at
least two walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank in
order that the tanks will be constructed to be the same flood damage protection
standards. For the purposes of the provisions of this chapter, the term shall
include manufactured, modular or mobile homes, prefabricated structures, sheds
on skids and other similar structures which are either affixed and/or placed
upon the ground surface whether or not connected to utilities.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the mean elevation of
the finished lot grade along the front yard face of the structure to the
highest point of flat roofs, to mean height level between the eaves and ridges
of gables, gambrel, hip and pitch roofs, or the deck line of the mansard roofs.
   CAMPS or CAMPGROUNDS. Tracts of land of a design or character suitable for
and used for seasonal recreational and other similar living purposes. The
tracts may have located on them a structure of a seasonal temporary or movable
nature such as a cabin, hunting shelter or tent.
   CLINIC. An establishment without facilities for in-patient nursing care,
where one or more physicians and other medical professionals diagnose and treat
human physical and/or mental ailments.
   CLUB, PRIVATE. A building or portion thereof or premises owned or operated
by a corporation, association, person or persons for a social, educational or
recreational purpose, but not primarily for profit or to render a service which
is customarily carried on as a business.
   COMPOST. The humus-like product of the process of composting waste, which
may be used as a soil conditioner.
   COMPOSTING. The biological treatment process by which microorganisms
decompose the organic fraction of the waste, producing compost.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The extensively developed and evolving plan, also called
a MASTER PLAN, adopted by the County Planning Commission.
   CONSERVATION. Preservation of land, water, flora, fauna and cultural
artifacts in their original state.
   CONSUMER SERVICE. Sale of any service to individual customers for their own
personal benefit, enjoyment or convenience. For example, CONSUMER SERVICES
include the provisions of the personal services such as beautician and
barbering service, the provision of lodging, entertainment, specialized
instruction, financial service, transportation, laundry and dry cleaning
services and all other similar services.
   DENSITY. Number of living units per acre allowable under the schedule of
district regulations.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to real estate including:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, location or placement of a
building or any addition to a building valued at more than $250;
         (b)   Installing or placing a manufactured, modular or mobile home on
a site, preparing a site for a manufactured, modular or mobile home, or
installing or placing a travel trailer on a site for more than 30 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, construction of roads or other similar
projects;
         (d)   Construction or erection of levees, walls, fences, bridges or
culverts;
         (e)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating or
other non-agricultural alterations of the ground surface;
         (f)   Storage of materials;
         (g)   Any other activity which might change the direction, height or
velocity of flood or surface waters; and
         (h)   Installing or constructing overhead or underground utilities.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include normal, general maintenance of
existing buildings and facilities such as re-roofing; resurfacing roads;
gardening, tilling and similar agricultural activities that do not involve
filling, grading or the construction of levees; construction or reconstruction
of public or private roads which causes no substantial change to the existing
grade; the construction or installation of a farm, such as livestock, fences
which do not cross or are at right angles to flowing water, however, farm
activities are not exempt from required federal and state permits; the
construction or installation of public highway bridges or culverts which have
been approved by the State Department of Transportation, Division of Water
Resources, permit § 9 of 12, or the Corps of Engineer 404 permits; provided
that, the accumulated effect of construction does not increase the base flood
more than the state standard, but in no case more than one foot; and the
construction or installation of light poles, sign posts and similar structures,
sidewalks, driveways, public parks (no buildings or fences), athletic fields
(no fences), properly anchored playground equipment and other similar
installations built at existing grade.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, but not including a recreational
vehicle, which is designed, intended or used exclusively for residential
occupancy, including single-family dwelling units, two-family dwelling units
and multiple-family dwelling units, but not including hotels, motels, boarding
houses, rooming houses or lodging houses.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building designed for or occupied by three or more
families.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building designed for or occupied exclusively by
one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed for or occupied exclusively by two
families.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms in a residential building which are
arranged, designed, used or intended to be used by one family, for living and
sleeping purposes and which includes permanently installed complete kitchen
facilities.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. Services provided by public and private utilities
necessary for the exercise of the principal use or service of the principal
structure. These services include underground, surface or overhead gas,
electrical, steam, water, sanitary sewerage, storm water drainage and
communication systems and accessories thereto such as poles, towers, wires,
mains, drains, vaults, culverts, laterals, sewers, pipes, catch basins, water
storage tanks, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic
signals, pumps, lift stations, hydrants and the like, but not including
buildings.
   FAMILY. A single individual, or two or more persons related to each other by
blood, marriage, legal adoption, or foster care situation, living together as a
single housekeeping unit doing their own cooking, living and sleeping upon a
premises, or not more than three persons, who need not be related by blood,
marriage, legal adoption or foster care situation, living together as a single
housekeeping unit and occupying a single dwelling unit, all exclusive of
domestic servants, or a group of individuals having developmental disabilities
(mental or physical handicaps) living together as a single housekeeping unit;
provided that, the groups do not exceed five such persons, exclusive of staff,
that the applicant or sponsoring agency demonstrates that the proposed group
home has obtained a permit or license from the state and is certified to
operate as a group home; and that the group homes are separated by at least 750
feet.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of inundation of normally dry land
areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid accumulation or the runoff of
surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The elevation of the base flood, plus
three feet, at any given location in the special flood hazard area (SFHA).
   FLOODWAY. The portion of the special flood hazard area required to store and
convey the base flood. The FLOODWAY is identified on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map dated 9-29-1989. No development in the FLOODWAY shall cause any increase in
the base flood elevation.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. For the purpose of determining the ratio of the floor
area of building to the area of the lot, the GROSS FLOOR AREA shall be the sum
of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of the building excluding
areas used for accessory garage purposes and the basement or cellar areas as
are devoted exclusively to uses accessory to the operation of the buildings.
All horizontal dimensions shall be taken from the exterior faces of walls,
including walls or other enclosures or enclosed porches.
   FRONTAGE. All the property on one side of a street or highway between two
intersecting streets or highways (crossing or terminating) measured along the
line of the street or highway, or if the street or highway is dead-ended, then
all of the property abutting on one side between an intersecting street or
highway and the dead end of the street or highway.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building or an accessory portion of the
principal building which is intended and used to store private motor vehicles
and other personal property, owned by members of the family or families
residing upon the premises, and in which no business, service or industry is
carried on; provided that not more than one-half of the space may be rented for
the storage of private motor vehicles of persons not residing on the premises,
except that all the space in a garage of one- or two-car capacity may be so
rented. Such a garage may be used for the storage of not more than one
commercial truck having a load capacity of one and one-half tons or less.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any building or premises, other than a private or storage
garage, where motor driven vehicles are equipped, repaired, serviced, rented,
sold or stored.
   GARAGE, STORAGE. A building or premises used for housing only of motor
vehicles, and where no equipment or parts are sold, and vehicles are not
rebuilt, serviced or repaired, hired or sold; except that, fuel, grease or oil
may be dispensed within the building to vehicles stored therein.
   GRADE. The highest level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to
the exterior walls of the building or structure.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An accessory use of a dwelling unit for the gainful
employment involving the manufacture, provision or sale of goods and/or
services.
   HOTEL. An establishment containing lodging rooms for occupancy by transient
guests, but not including a boarding or rooming house. Such an establishment
provides customary hotel services such as maid and bellboy service, furnishing
of all laundry or linens used in the lodging rooms, and central desk with
telephone.
   INDUSTRIAL PARK. An unified development designed to accommodate a community
of compatible and non-nuisance types of industry. INDUSTRIAL PARKS may be
promoted or sponsored by private developers, community organizations or
government organizations.
   INSTITUTION. A building occupied by a non-profit corporation or a non-profit
establishment for public use.
   JUNK. Any worn out, cast off or discarded article or material which is ready
for destruction or has been collected or stored for salvage or conversion to
some use. An article or material which, unaltered or unchanged and without
further reconditioning, can be used for its original purpose as readily as when
new shall not be considered JUNK.
   KENNEL. On premises or portions thereof on which four or more dogs, cats or
other household domestic animals over four months of age are kept, or on which
more than two animals are maintained, bred or cared for, for remuneration or
sale.
   LANDING STRIP, PRIVATE. A strip of land used or intended for use for the
landing and take-off of the private aircraft of the owner or lessee of the
landing strip and his or her guests and accessory structures customarily
incidental to the operations which may include one building for the storage and
maintenance of not more than two private aircraft.
   LANDSCAPE WASTE. All accumulations of grass or shrubbery cuttings, leaves,
tree limbs and other materials accumulated as the result of the care of lawns,
shrubbery, vines and trees.
   LANDSCAPE WASTE COMPOSTING FACILITY. An establishment designed and intended
for use as a site for the composting of waste materials accumulated as the
result of the care of lawns, shrubbery, vines and trees and not accessory to an
operating farm.
   LIGHT INDUSTRY. Industry that does not create air, sight or water pollution.
Noise pollution shall be contained on the property. Incoming supplies and
outgoing finished products can be shipped with minimum freight or trucking.
   LODGING ROOM. A room rented as sleeping and living quarters, but without
cooking facilities, and with or without an individual bathroom. In a suite of
rooms, each room which provides sleeping accommodations shall be counted as one
LODGING ROOM.
   LOT. Includes the words PARCEL, PIECE and TRACT.
   LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the vertical planes
through front, side and rear lot lines.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot having at least two adjacent sides that abut either fully
or partially upon dedicated streets or public ways. All sides shall be deemed
to be front lot lines.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the
rear lot line of a lot measured within the lot boundaries.
   LOT LINE. A property boundary line of any lot held in single or separate
ownership; except that, where any portion of the lot extends into the abutting
street or alley, the LOT LINE shall be deemed to be the abutting street or
alley right-of-way line.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The boundary of a lot which is along an existing or
dedicated street or public way. In the case of corner lots, both lot boundaries
which are along the dedicated streets or public ways shall be deemed to be
FRONT LOT LINES.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The boundary of a lot which is most distant from and is, or
is approximately, parallel to the front lot line, If the rear lot line is less
than ten feet in length, or if the lot forms a point at the rear, the REAR LOT
LINE shall be deemed to be a line ten feet in length within the lot parallel to
and at the maximum distance from the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front or rear lot line.
   LOT, OPEN SALES. Land used or occupied for the purpose of buying or selling
merchandise stored or displayed out-of-doors prior to sale. The merchandise
includes, but is not limited to, passenger cars, trucks, motor scooters,
motorcycles, boats, monuments, trailers and agricultural equipment.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having two lot lines fronting on two dedicated streets
or public ways which are on opposite sides of the lot, or which fronts on two
dedicated streets or public ways which do not intersect at the boundaries of
the lot. Both streets shall be deemed to be front lot lines.
   LOT WIDTH. The width of a parcel of land measured at the rear of the
specified front yard.
   LOT, ZONING.
      (1)   A single property, parcel, unit, tract, plot or otherwise
designated portion of land, having principal frontage on a street which
comprises a site occupied by, or intended for occupancy by one principal
building or principal use together with accessory buildings and uses, yards and
other open spaces required by this chapter.
      (2)   Also any part of single property divided by a stream with a
drainage area of 20 square miles or more, an existing street or highway right-
of-way, or an existing railroad right-of-way, not in a recorded subdivision,
with street or highway frontage bounded by any of the following:
         (a)   The property line;
         (b)   A stream with a drainage area of 20 square miles or more;
         (c)   An existing street or highway right-of-way; and
         (d)   An existing railroad right-of-way.
      (3)   If the property so bounded is substandard, it shall be restricted
as specified in §
155.009(F).
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed as a dwelling with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes
plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained therein.
   MEASURED DISTANCE. The nearest integral foot if a fraction is one-half foot
or less, the integral foot next below shall be taken.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility registered by the Department
of Agriculture to perform activities to provide dispensing organizations with
usable medical cannabis.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility registered by the
Department of Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire medical cannabis
from cultivation centers for the purpose of legally dispensing paraphernalia,
related supplies and educational materials.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, in the
traveling mode, which is eight feet or more in body width, or is 40 feet or
more in length, or when erected on a site, is 320 square feet or more which is
built on a permanent chassis and designed and intended as a dwelling with or
without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and
includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems
contained therein. The terms MANUFACTURED HOME and HUD HOMES shall be
synonymous with the term MOBILE HOME as herein defined and used herein.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. An area of land or lands upon which five or more
independent mobile homes are harbored either free of charge or for revenue
purposes and shall include any building, structure, tent, vehicle or enclosure
used or intended for use as part of the equipment of the mobile home park.
   MODULAR HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
factory-fabricated and is designed, intended and used as a dwelling which has a
minimum width of 24 feet, contains a minimum of 1,000 square feet, has a
pitched roof, which has a surface of wood shakes, asphalt composition, wood
shingles or other similar materials approved by the Administrator, is placed on
and attached to a permanent foundation which extends to a depth greater than
the frost line when connected to the required utilities, and includes the
plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained therein.
The term MODULAR HOME shall be synonymous with such common terminology as SITE
BUILT and CONVENTIONAL HOME.
   MOTEL. An establishment consisting of a group of lodging rooms each with
individual bathrooms and designed for use by transient guests. A MOTEL
furnishes customary hotel services such as maid service and laundering of linen
used in the lodging rooms, telephone and secretarial or desk service, and the
use and upkeep of furniture.
   MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL. A building or area of land in which freight brought
by motor truck is assembled and/or sorted for routing in intrastate or
interstate shipment.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A passenger vehicle, truck, truck-trailer, trailer or semi-
trailer propelled or drawn by mechanical power.
   NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE. A structure which lawfully occupies a building
site or land at the time of adoption of this chapter, or as later amended, and
which does not conform with the regulations of the district in which it is
located.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. A use which lawfully occupies a building or land at the
time of adoption of this chapter, or as later amended, and which does not
conform with the use regulations of the district in which it is located.
   NURSING HOME. An establishment for the care of the aged or infirm, or a
place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders. Such a home does not
contain facilities, other than for normal care and medical treatment of the
occupants of the home, for surgical care, the treatment of disease or injury,
obstetrics, nor does it include care of mentally ill or alcoholic patients.
   PARKING SPACE. A space accessory to a use or structure for the parking of
one vehicle the size of which shall be nine feet by 20 feet, exclusive of
passageways, driveways or other means of circulation as such.
   PERFORMANCE STANDARDS. A criterion established to control noise, odor,
smoke, particulate matter, toxic or noxious matter, vibration, fire and
explosion hazards, or glare or heat generated by or inherent in uses of land or
buildings.
   PLAT. A map plan or layout showing the subdivision of land and indicating
the location and boundaries of individual lots.
   RECREATION SPACE. Total area in square feet which is countable as open
space, but is not paved in streets, walks or driveways and is suitable for
recreational pursuits. The smallest countable recreation area is 1,000 square
feet. The part of a recreation area having a dimension of less than 20 feet
shall not be included as countable RECREATION SPACE.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle designed for recreational use and which
cannot be defined as a mobile home under the terms of this chapter.
   REFUSE. All waste products resulting from human habitation, except sewage.
   RELATIVES. Persons standing in the relation of wife and husband, son,
daughter, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew, father or
mother, brother, sister, grandchildren or grandparents.
   RESEARCH LABORATORY. A building or group of buildings in which are located
facilities for scientific research, investigation, testing or experimentation,
but no facilities for the manufacture of products for sale.
   RETAIL SALES. Sale of any product or merchandise to customers for their own
personal consumption or use, not for resale.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any land or structure used for a salvaging operation
including, among other things, the storage and sale of waste paper, rags, scrap
metal and discarded materials, and the collecting, dismantling, storage and
salvaging of unlicensed, inoperative vehicles.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. A method of disposing of refuse on land without creating
nuisances or hazards to public health or safety. The method must conform to
state regulations.
   SETBACK LINE. The building restriction line nearest the front of and across
a lot establishing the minimum distance to be provided between the line of a
structure located on the lot and the nearest street right-of-way line.
   SHOPPING CENTERS.
      (1)   COMMUNITY. The COMMUNITY SHOPPING CENTER is generally designed and
constructed to serve a population of approximately 40,000 to 80,000 persons.
The facilities usually present in this type of center are a junior department
store, branch banks, apparel shops, supermarkets and personal service
enterprises such as beauty shops, barber shops and dry cleaners.
      (2)   NEIGHBORHOOD. NEIGHBOR-HOOD CENTERS mainly serve day-to-day needs
of people in their immediate vicinity. Normally, the NEIGHBORHOOD CENTER
contains from five to ten stores with a supermarket as its focal point.
      (3)   REGIONAL. The REGIONAL SHOPPING CENTER is generally designed to
serve the “one-stop” customer. He or she may park his or her car once and
travel to various store destinations and purchase almost everything. The
REGIONAL SHOPPING CENTER normally contains a major department store where a
large variety of goods and services are offered. The center also usually
contains professional offices, specialty shops, restaurants and perhaps
amusement facilities. A maximum trade population of approximately 100,000
persons is necessary to adequately support a REGIONAL CENTER.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING (BILLBOARD). A sign which directs attention to a business,
commodity, service or entertainment not necessarily conducted, sold or offered
for sale on the premises where the sign is located, or to which it is affixed.
   SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign which directs attention to a business or profession
conducted, or to a commodity, service or entertainment sold or offered upon the
premises where the sign is located, or to which it is affixed.
   SIGNS. Any words, letters, figures, numerals, phrases, sentences, emblems,
devices, designs, trade names or trademarks by which information is made known
and which are used to advertise or promote an individual, firm, association,
corporation, profession, business, commodity or product and which is visible
from any public street, highway or pedestrian way.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Those lands within the jurisdiction of the county
that are subject to inundation by the base flood. The SFHAs of the county’s
unincorporated and incorporated areas are generally identified as such on the
Flood Insurance Rate Maps prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
and dated 9-29-1989, which maps are hereby adopted by reference.
   STREETS. A public right-of-way providing primary access to abutting
properties.
   STRUCTURE. A combination of materials to form a construction for use,
occupancy or ornamentation whether installed on, above or below the surface of
land or water.
   TENT. A structure or enclosure, the roof of which and/or one-half or more of
the sides are constructed of silk, cotton, canvas fabric or a similar light
material.
   THOROUGHFARE. A street with a high degree of continuity which serves as an
intrastate, and intra-county or inter-state highway, or as an arterial traffic
way between the various districts of this county. It affords a primary means of
access to abutting properties, except from thoroughfares classified as freeways
or other limited access routes not containing frontage roads.
   TRAILER SPACE. A parcel of land in a travel trailer parking area for the
placement of a single trailer and the exclusive use of its occupants.
   USE. The purpose of activity for which the land or building thereon is
designed, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained.
   USE, PERMITTED. A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts; provided, it conforms with all requirements, regulations
and performance standards, if any, of the district.
   USE, PRINCIPAL. The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use. It may be either a permitted or special use.
   USED. Includes ARRANGED FOR, INTENDED FOR, MAINTAINED FOR and OCCUPIED FOR.
   UTILITIES. Public and private facilities including but not limited to water
wells, water and sewage pumping stations, water storage tanks, power and
communication transmission lines, electrical power substations, static
transformer stations, telephone and telegraph exchanges, microwave radio relays
and gas regulation stations, but not including sewage disposal plants,
municipal incinerators, warehouse shops and storage yards.
   VACATION HOME RENTAL. A residence providing short-term accommodations for a
charge to the public.
   WATERLINE. The shortest straight line at the waterfront end of a stream lot
that lies wholly within the lot; provided that, not less than 75% of the length
of the waterline shall be on the landward side of the normal high water mark of
the stream.
   WHOLESALE ESTABLISHMENT. A business establishment engaged in selling to
retailers or jobbers rather than directly to the consumers.
   YARD. An open space on a lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its
lowest level to the sky. A YARD extends along a line and at right angles to the
lot line to a depth or width specified in the yard regulations for the district
in which the lot is located.
   YARD, CORNER SIDE. A side yard which adjoins a street or thoroughfare.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending along the full width of the front lot line
between the side lot lines.
   YARD, INTERIOR SIDE. A side yard which is located immediately adjacent to
another lot or to an alley separating the side yard from another lot.
   YARD, REAR. The portion of the yard on the same lot with the principal
building, located between the rear line of the building and the rear lot line
and extending for the full width of the lot; provided that, in those locations
where an alley is platted in the rear of the lots, one-half of the width of the
platted alley may be included in the rear yard requirement.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending along a side lot line between the front and
rear yards.
(Prior Code, § 152.005) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 8-17-1989; Ord.
passed 9-14-1989; Ord. passed 6-11-1992; Ord. passed 7-13-1995; Ord. passed 8-
17-1995; Ord. passed 9-14-1995; Ord. passed 7-1-2000; Ord. passed 8-30-2012;
Ord. passed 7-10-2014; Ord. passed 6-20-2024; Ord. passed 10-24-2024)
§ 155.006 INTERPRETATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be interpreted and applied as minimum
requirements, shall be liberally construed in favor of the county and shall not
be deemed a limitation or repeal of any other power granted by the state
statutes.
(Prior Code, § 152.006) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024)
§ 155.007 JURISDICTION; COMPLIANCE.
   The jurisdiction of this chapter shall include all lands and waters within
the county and within those municipalities not having in force their own zoning
ordinance. All buildings erected hereafter, all uses of land or buildings
established hereafter, all structural alterations or relocation of existing
buildings occurring hereafter, and all enlargements of or additions to existing
uses occurring hereafter shall be subject to all regulations of this chapter
which are applicable to the zoning districts in which the buildings, uses or
land shall be located.
(Prior Code, § 152.007) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024)
§ 155.008 USE RESTRICTIONS.
   The following use restrictions and regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Principal uses. Only those principal uses specified for a district or
on a planned development plat, their essential services and the following uses
shall be permitted in that district.
   (B)   Accessory uses and structures. Accessory uses and structures are
permitted in any district, but not until their principal structure is present
or under construction; except that, a garage for shelter of motor vehicles or a
utility shed to store tools needed to garden, farm or maintain the property in
question will be permitted.
   (C)   Uses by special permit. Uses by special permit (conditional uses) and
their accessory uses are permitted in districts as specified, but only
according to the procedure set forth in §
155.130. The development shall be specifically reviewed by the Planning
Commission as provided in §§
155.125 through
155.132.
   (D)   Unclassified or unspecified uses. In case of uncertainty where the
Administrator is unable to determine liberally whether a use is permitted as a
principal or accessory use, he or she shall consult the Board of Zoning Appeals
for an interpretation.
   (E)   Temporary uses.
      (1)   Temporary uses such as field offices or shelters for materials and
equipment being used in the construction of a permanent structure may be
permitted by the Administrator through the issuance of a certificate of zoning
compliance. In either case, the permit shall expire with the completed
construction.
      (2)   An existing single-family dwelling, an accessory structure such as
a garage, or a modular or mobile home may be allowed as temporary dwelling
during that period of time that a new, principal, single-family dwelling is
being constructed upon the same property. This temporary use is for a period of
time not to exceed one year or the date of first occupancy of the newly
constructed residence, whichever is the earlier date. The temporary dwelling
shall comply with all public health and minimum yard requirements. Upon the
expiration of the time period or occupancy of the newly constructed residence,
the temporary dwelling shall be removed from the property or otherwise brought
into complete conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Temporary construction operations, such as, but not limited to, the
batching or mixing of portland cement concrete or bituminous concrete shall be
allowed in all districts; provided, petitions from all land owners within 500
feet of operation are provided the Administrator. If petitions cannot be
obtained, an appeal may be made by the special permit procedure. The permit
will only be good for a period not greater than two years or the completion of
the project, whichever is the earlier date. Under no circumstances will the
sale of products from these operations be allowed, except for use on the
principal project.
(Prior Code, § 152.008) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 7-12-1990; Ord.
passed 6-11-1992; Ord. passed 6-20-2024) Penalty §
155.999
§ 155.009 SITE RESTRICTIONS.
   The following site restrictions and regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Soil conditions.
      (1)   No land shall be used or structure erected where the land is held
unsuitable for the use or structure by the County Board by reason of flooding,
concentrated runoff, inadequate drainage, adverse soil or rock formation,
unfavorable topography, low percolation rate or bearing strength, erosion
susceptibility or any other feature likely to be harmful to the health, safety,
prosperity, aesthetic and general welfare of the county.
      (2)   The County Board, in applying the provisions of this section, shall
in writing recite the particular facts upon which it bases its conclusion that
the land is not suitable for certain uses. The applicant shall have an
opportunity to present evidence contesting the unsuitability, if he or she so
desires. Thereafter, the County Board may affirm, modify or withdraw its
determination of unsuitability.
   (B)   Abutment on public thoroughfare. All lots shall abut upon a public
thoroughfare.
   (C)   Dedication. No zoning permit (building permit) shall be issued for a
lot that abuts a public street dedicated to only a portion of its proposed
width and located on that side thereof from which the required dedication has
not been secured.
   (D)   Dimensions of building sites.
      (1)   Lots not served by public sewer.
         (a)   General. In all districts, lot sizes shall be based on soil
capabilities. The County Board shall request an opinion of the County
Sanitarian before making judgement on required lot sizes. In no cases shall the
lot size be less than those specified as minimum requirements in §
155.065. However, the County Board may require lots larger than the minimums.
All developments not served by public sewers shall also conform to division (A)
of this section and the separate regulation entitled Regulation of Sewage
Disposal and Erection, Construction or Repair of Any Septic Tank, Privy Vault,
Sink Drain or Sewage Disposal System within the Limits of DeWitt County,
Illinois.
         (b)   Side yards. There shall be a side yard for each principal
building. In the Rural Development-2 District, the distance between principal
structures shall be not less than 100 linear feet. Unless otherwise
specifically required or permitted, the side yard requirements for all other
districts shall be those indicated as minimums in §
155.065.
      (2)   Lots served by public sewer. Lots served by public sewer shall be
as specified in §
155.065.
   (E)   Reduction or joint use. No lot, yard, parking area, building area or
other space shall be reduced in area or dimension so as not to meet the
provisions of this chapter. No part of any lot, yard, parking area or other
space required for a structure or use shall be used for any other structure or
use.
   (F)   Substandard lots. A lot which does not contain sufficient area to
conform to the dimensional requirements of this chapter for yards, courts,
width, depth or open space may be developed provided:
      (1)   The use is permitted in the zoning district;
      (2)   Pre-existing substandard lots which have been properly platted and
recorded with the County Recorder shall be allowed to be developed; providing,
setback requirements are met; and
      (3)   Any lot utilizing septic tank filter fields must conform to the
County and State Board of Health standards regulating that development.
(Prior Code, § 152.009) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024)
§ 155.010 GENERAL DEVELOPMENT.
   The Planning Commission and the County Board shall continuously develop
their comprehensive plan, including their planning policies to guide future
decisions. All comprehensive plan elements, in whatever degree of detail they
may embody, shall provide the basis for approval of all development under this
chapter, and no development shall be approved under this chapter which is in
conflict with any comprehensive plan elements.
(Prior Code, § 152.010) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024
§ 155.011 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul, impair
or interfere with any existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions,
agreements, ordinances, rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or
issued pursuant to law.
   (B)   However, wherever this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this chapter shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 152.011) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024
ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES AND MAPS
§ 155.025 ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   In order to carry out the purposes of this chapter, the geographic area
within the jurisdiction of this chapter is hereby divided into the following
use districts:
A    Agricultural District
B-1  General Commercial District
B-2  Convenience Commercial District
B-3  Highway Commercial District
FP   Floodplain District
I    General Industrial District
R-1  Low Density Single-Family Residential
R-2  High Density Single-Family Residential
R-3  Multi-Family Residential District
R-4  Mobile Home District
RD-1 Rural Development District - 1
RD-2 Rural Development District - 2
RD-3 Rural Development District - 3
 
(Prior Code, § 152.025) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024
§ 155.026 ZONING MAP DIRECTORY.
   The certified copy of the zoning map directory will bear on its face the
attestation of the Chairperson of the County Board and the County Clerk. It
shall be on file and may be viewed in the office of the County Clerk. It shall
contain the zoning map for the unincorporated areas of the county and for any
incorporated municipalities which have not adopted their own zoning ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 152.026) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024
§ 155.027 INTERPRETATION OF ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   (1)   Boundaries of these districts are hereby established as shown on
the series of maps entitled “Zoning Map Directory, County of DeWitt, Illinois”
dated 3-9-1976 and which accompanies and is hereby declared to be a part of
this chapter.
      (2)   District boundaries shall be construed to follow: corporate limits;
county limits; public highways, alleys, easements and railroad rights-of-way or
the lines extended; soil mapping unit lines; unless otherwise noted in the
Zoning Map Directory.
   (B)   Vacation of public streets and alleys shall cause the land vacated to
be automatically placed in the same district as the adjoining district. If a
vacated street or alley adjoins two different zones, the centerline of the
vacated street or alley shall constitute the zoning district.
(Prior Code, § 152.027) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024)
§ 155.028 ANNEXED TERRITORY.
   Any land which may be annexed to an incorporated community affected by this
chapter shall be placed in the Rural Development-3 District until special
action of the County Board shall definitely assign the land to another
district.
(Prior Code, § 152.028) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024)
DISTRICTS USE REGULATIONS
§ 155.040 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   It is the intent of this chapter in establishing an Agricultural District to
facilitate the proper use of lands best suited to agriculture through
preventing the admixture of urban and rural uses which creates incompatibility
and conflict, places unbalanced tax loads on agricultural lands to help pay for
urban services and contributes to the premature termination of agricultural
pursuits. This zone is also designed to prevent health hazards brought about by
the illogical placement of inappropriately high residential densities in the
otherwise open countryside.
(Prior Code, § 152.040) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024)
§ 155.041 RD-1 RURAL DEVELOPMENT-1 DISTRICT.
   It is the intent of this chapter in establishing a Rural Development-
1 District to accommodate in a logical manner roadside development trends. Many
types of uses find it desirable to locate along a major highway in the rural
areas. If the carrying capacity of the highways and the open character of the
countryside are preserved through lot size regulations, this is not an
undesirable trend. Therefore, it is the intent of this chapter to allow various
uses along designated highways; provided, they locate on lots having at least a
240-foot frontage and that access of driveways is controlled.
(Prior Code, § 152.041) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024)
§ 155.042 RD-2 RURAL DEVELOPMENT-2 DISTRICT.
   The intent of this chapter in establishing a Rural Development-2 District is
to promote the logical growth of uses around the county’s communities.
Additionally, this district will provide areas for the increasing demand for
rural non-farm development sites. As development pressures dictate, this
District will be rezoned to allow those uses indicated on the Land Use Plan
Map.
(Prior Code, § 152.042) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024)
§ 155.043 RD-3 RURAL DEVELOPMENT-3 DISTRICT.
   The intent of this chapter in establishing a Rural Development-3 District is
to promote the logical growth of residences around the county’s communities.
(Prior Code, § 152.043) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024)
§ 155.044 R-1 LOW DENSITY SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   The intent of this chapter in establishing a Low Density Residential
District is to provide areas for families wishing to live on large lots in
residential neighborhoods within communities.
(Prior Code, § 152.044) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024)
§ 155.045 R-2 HIGH DENSITY SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   The intent of this chapter in establishing a High Density Single-Family
Residential District is to protect those residential areas of the community
that were developed in most part prior to World War II from encroachment from
potential conflicting uses and to provide for future residential and related
development and redevelopment.
(Prior Code, § 152.045) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024)
§ 155.046 R-3 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   The intent of this chapter in establishing a Multi-Family Residential
District is to provide for the conversion of single-family structures to multi-
family structures in the established portions of the community where larger
two-story homes predominate and to provide new areas for modern multi-family
development.
(Prior Code, § 152.046) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024)
§ 155.047 R-4 MOBILE HOME RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   The intent of this chapter in establishing a second High Density Single-
Family Residential District is to provide for people who wish to own a mobile
home placed on a privately owned lot.
(Prior Code, § 152.047) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024)
§ 155.048 B-1 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   The intent of this chapter in establishing a General Commercial District to
promote development of the existing principal commercial development in
municipalities.
(Prior Code, § 152.048) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024)
§ 155.049 B-2 CONVENIENCE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   The intent of this chapter in establishing a Convenience Commercial
District is to provide for minor shopping areas at the edges of neighborhoods
to provide for the day-to-day needs for goods and services.
   (B)   These should not be of the type or magnitude to compete directly with
the uses found in the General Commercial District.
(Prior Code, § 152.049) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024)
§ 155.050 B-3 HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   The intent of this chapter in establishing a Highway Commercial District is
to provide appropriate areas for commercial establishments which are oriented
to the motoring public or which require large sites for off-street parking or
display of merchandise. Additionally, the establishment of the District is in
recognition of existing uses of this nature in decentralized locations, due in
part to the past and present shortage of potential commercial sites within the
urban centers.
(Prior Code, § 152.050) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024)
§ 155.051 I GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   The intent of this chapter in establishing a General Industrial District is
to recognize existing industrial development within the county and the
desirability of reserving additional land for possible new, expanded or
relocated industries. It is intended that land zoned for industry be located so
that conflict with incompatible uses would be minimized.
(Prior Code, § 152.051) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024)
§ 155.052 FP FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT.
   (A)   The intent of this chapter in establishing a Floodplain District
includes the following:
      (1)   Promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and
general welfare;
      (2)   Conservation of the value of land and buildings throughout the
county;
      (3)   Generally enhancing aesthetic values throughout the county;
      (4)   Prevention of unwise developments in the flood hazard areas and
prevention of developments increasing the flood or drainage hazards to others;
      (5)   Protection of new buildings and major improvements to buildings
from flood damage;
      (6)   Protection of human life and health from the hazards of flooding;
      (7)   Lessening the burden on the taxpayers for flood control projects,
repairs to flood damaged public and private buildings, facilities and
utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
      (8)   Maintenance of property values and a stable tax base by minimizing
the potential for creating flood blight areas;
      (9)   Making federally subsidized flood insurance available for
properties located in the unincorporated areas of the county; and
      (10)   Providing for the sensible, orderly growth and development of an
environment that is especially sensitive to changes and encroachment from human
activity.
   (B)   All lands located in the unincorporated area of the county which are
shown to be within the special flood hazard areas shall be subject to the
standards, regulations and procedures established and contained in this
chapter.
      (1)   Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the application of these
regulations to lands which can be demonstrated by a competent engineering study
to lie inside the SFHA; conversely, any lands which can be demonstrated by a
competent engineering study to lie outside the SFHA may not be subject to these
regulations. If a particular owner(s), after a determination by the
Administrator, disputes whether a parcel or parcels of land are within the
SFHA, it shall be the responsibility of those particular owner(s) of the land
to prove whether or not the land in question is outside the SFHA.
      (2)   Where not otherwise prohibited in this chapter, all buildings shall
have all habitable and usable floor areas, including basements at an elevation
at least three feet above the base flood elevation. All mechanical equipment,
plumbing, electrical and other utility areas of a building shall also be at
least three feet above the base flood elevation.
      (3)   All underground utilities such as water, sewer and electric lines
shall be located or constructed to resist and to insulate the utilities from
flood hazards.
      (4)   Development in the floodway which causes or creates any increase in
the base flood elevation shall be prohibited.
   (C)   The degree of flood protection required by this section is considered
for regulatory purposes and is based on the available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This section does not
imply that development either inside or outside the special flood hazard area
will be free from flooding or damage. This section does not create liability on
the part of the county or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage
that results from reliance on this section or any administrative decision made
lawfully thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 152.052) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 9-14-1989; Ord.
passed 6-20-2024) Penalty, §
155.999
§ 155.053 SCHEDULE OF PERMITTED USES, PROHIBITED USES, AND SPECIAL PERMIT USES
BY DISTRICT.
   (A)   (1)   Uses permitted, as indicated by “x”, and uses allowed by special
use permit, as indicated by “s”, are hereby established and shown for each use
district on the following tables.
      (2)   Uses which may be determined to be inside the special flood hazard
area shall be regulated by provisions and standards contained in this chapter.
      (3)   If no “x” or “s” is shown under a particular zoning district for a
particular use, the use shall be deemed prohibited.
   (B)   (1)   General. Uses not listed shall be considered the same as other
similar uses. The Administrator shall determine what is similar. If he or she
cannot make this determination, he or she shall consult the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
      (2)   Principal uses.
                 Districts
Agriculture Uses Agr. RD-1 RD-2 RD-3 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 B-1 B-2 B-3 I FP
                           Districts
Agriculture Uses           Agr. RD-1 RD-2 RD-3 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 B-1 B-2 B-3 I FP
Accessory structures to    x    x    x    x    s   s   s   s   x   x   x   x
permitted uses
Agriculture                x    x    x    x    x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x x
Agriculture accessory
uses, farmstead and
necessary appurtenant      x    x    x    x    x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x
structures on any
operating farm
Agritourism                x    x    x    x    x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x x
Artificial lake on one or  s    s    s    s    s   s   s   s           s   s s
more acre
Commercial greenhouse and  x    x    s    s                    s   s   x   x
plant nursery
Commercial greenhouse or
other facility used for    s    s    s                         s   s   s   s
cultivation or dispensing
of medical cannabis
Farm chemicals and
fertilizer sales including
incidental storage and     s    s    s                                 s   s
mixing of blended
fertilizer
Farm equipment sales and
service (includes sale of  x    x    s                                 x   x
trucks and light
industrial equipment)
Farm seed processing,
packaging, growing,
developing, processing,
conditioning of hybrid     x    x    x    x                    x   x   x   x
seed corn, seed beans,
seed oats or other farm
seeds
Feed mills                 s    s                                      s   s
Feed and grain (sales      x    x    x                         x   x   x   x
only)
Grain storage elevator and x    s    s    s                                x
bins
Greenhouse (not exceeding  x    x    s    s                    x   x   x   x
1,000 square feet)
Livestock sales facility
and stockyards (no         x    s                                          x
slaughter of animals)
Permanent roadside produce s    x    s                         x   x   x   x
sales stand
 
                 Districts
Residential Uses Agr. RD-1 RD-2 RD-3 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 B-1 B-2 B-3 I FP
                                                                        Districts
Residential Uses                                                        Agr. RD- RD- RD- R- R- R- R- B- B- B- I FP
                                                                             1   2   3   1  2  3  4  1  2  3
Apartment as accessory use to a principal use in the same building      s    x   s             x     s  x  s  s
Bed and breakfast, vacation home rental, board or lodging house         s    s   s   s         x     x  x  x
Dwelling, multi-family, moderate density                                     s   s   s         x     x  x  x
Dwelling, single-family                                                 x    x   x   x   x  x  x  x  x  x  x  s
Dwelling, two-family                                                    x    s   s   s         x     x  x  x
Fraternity, sorority or student cooperative                                  s   s   s         x     s  s  s
Group homes
If able to comply with the definition of “family” in §                  x   x   x   x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x
155.005
For persons with developmental disabilities, if unable or unwilling to
meet and comply with the definition of “family” in §                    s   s   s   s  s  s  s  s  s  s  s
155.005
High-rise apartment building                                                 s   s   s         s     s  s  s
Hotel                                                                        s                       x  x  x
Manufactured or mobile home                                                                       x
Mobile home park                                                             s   s   s   s  s  s  s        s  s
Motel                                                                        x                       x  x  x
Privately-owned and operated dormitory                                       s   s   s         x     s  s  s
Single-family dwelling or apartment for resident watchman or caretaker  x    x   x   x               x  x  x  x
employed on the premises as an accessory use to a principal use
Recreational vehicle camp                                                    s   s                         s  s
 
                          Districts
Business Uses; Automobile Agr. RD-1 RD-2 RD-3 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 B-1 B-2 B-3 I FP
Sales and Service
                           Districts
Business Uses; Automobile  Agr. RD-1 RD-2 RD-3 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 B-1 B-2 B-3 I FP
Sales and Service
Automobile repair
including body and              x                              x   s   x   x
upholstery work (all
indoors)
Automobile salvage yard         s                                          s
(junkyard)
Automobile, trailer, truck
rental and sales and            x    x                         x   s   x   x
service
Automotive accessory store      x                              x   x   x   x
Battery and tire service        x                              s   s   x   x
stations
Commercial Motor vehicle        x                              x   x   x   x
washing facility
Motor vehicle service
stations, for the retail
sale and dispensing of
fuel, lubricants, tires,        x                              s   s   x   x
batteries, accessories and
supplies including
installation and minor
service
Motorcycle sales and            x                              x   s   x   x
service
 
                        Districts
Public and Quasi-Public Agr. RD-1 RD-2 RD-3 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 B-1 B-2 B-3 I FP
Facilities
                           Districts
Public and Quasi-Public    Agr. RD-1 RD-2 RD-3 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 B-1 B-2 B-3 I FP
Facilities
Antenna fields             s    s    s                                     s
Church temple, chapel or   x    x    x    x    x   x   x   x   x       x
synagogue
Fairgrounds including race
tracks, grandstands and         s    s                         s       s   s
accessory uses and
structures
Fire station                    x    s    s    s   s   s   s   x   x   x   x
High pressure pumping
stations for pumping       s    s    s                         s       s   x
gasoline, gas, oil and the
like
Highway maintenance shops
and yards including        x    x    s    s                    s   s   x   x
offices
Hospitals, clinics, public s    x    s    s    s   s   s   s           s
or private
Nonresidential institution
of an educational,         x    x    x    x    x   x   x   x   x       x
philanthropic or
eleemosynary nature
Municipal or government
building including post    s    x    s    s    s   s   s   s   x   x   x   x
offices
Nursing and shelter care        x    s    s    s   s   s   s           s
homes, public or private
Penal or correctional      s    s    s
institution
Police station                  x    s    s    s   s   s   s   x   x   x   x
Public or commercial       s    s    s                                 s   s
sanitary landfill
Public or private library       x    x    x    s   s   x   s   x   x   x   x
or art gallery
Public or private museum        x    s    s    s   s   s   s   x   x   x   x
Public or private parking       x                              x   x   x   x
garage or lots (cars)
Public park or
recreational facility (no  x    x    x    x    x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x x
camping)
Pumping stations (water or x    x    x    x    x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x
sewage)
Race tracks including           s    s                         s       s   s
accessory structures
Radar installations and    s    s    s                                 s   s
towers
Radio and television
studios, stations and      s    x    s    s                    s   s   s   s
towers
Radio and television
studios, stations (no           x    s    s                    x   x   x
towers)
Religious tent meeting     s    s    s    s    s   s   s   s   s   s   s   s
Schools, non-boarding,
elementary, junior high,   x    x    x    x    x   x   x   x   x       x
high or junior college
Sewage disposal plant or   s    s    s                                 s   x
lagoon
Telephone, telegraph and
power transmission lines   x    x    x    x    x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x
and pipelines
Utility maintenance shops
and yards and utility           x    s                         x   x   x   x
offices
Waterworks, reservoirs,    s    s    s    s                            x   x
filtration plants
 
 
                        Districts
Business Uses; Personal Agr. RD-1 RD-2 RD-3 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 B-1 B-2 B-3 I FP
Services
                           Districts
Business Uses; Personal    Agr. RD-1 RD-2 RD-3 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 B-1 B-2 B-3 I FP
Services
Barber or beauty shop and       x    s    s                    x   x   x   s
nail salons
Blue-printing and               s                              x   x   x   s
photostating stores
Clothing and costume            s                              x   x   x   s
rental stores
Diaper, linen, towel and
other similar supply            x                              x   x   x   x
services
Dressmaking and tailor          s                              x   x   x   s
shops
Dry cleaning and laundry-
automatic, self-service         s                              x   x   x   s
only or hand laundries
Dry cleaning, laundry and       s                              s   s   s   x
dyeing establishments
Dry cleaning, pressing and      s                              x   x   x   s
laundry receiving stations
Employment agencies             s                              x   x   x
Exterminating shops             x                              s   s   x   s
Home occupations           x    x    x    x    x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x
Interior decorating shops       s                              x   x   x   s
Laboratories-medical and        s                              x   x   x   s
dental
Medical or dental clinic        s    s    s    s   s   s   s   x   x   x
or office
Millinery shop                  s                              x   x   x   s
Newspapers and magazine         s                              s   s   x   x
publishers
Nursery, pre- school and   s    x    s    s    s   s   s   s   s   s   x   s
day care facility
Photography studios,
including the developing        s    s                         x   x   s   s
of films and pictures
Physical culture and
health services -               x                              s   s   x   s
gymnasiums, reducing
salons, massage salons
Printing shops                  s    s                         x   x   x   x
Radio and television            s    s                         x   x   x   s
service and repair shops
Recording studios               s    s                         x   x   x   s
Riding academies           x    x    s    s
Schools - business,             x                              s   s   x   x
commercial or trade
Schools - music or dance        x                              x   x   x   s
Shoe repair shop                s                              x   x   x   s
Taxidermists                    s                              x   x   x   s
Ticket agencies -               s                              x   x   x   s
amusement
Travel bureaus and
transportation ticket           s                              x   x   x   s
offices
Undertaking establishments
and funeral parlors and         x    s    s    s   s   s   s   x   x   x   s
crematoriums
 
 
                          Districts
Business Uses; Food Sales Agr. RD-1 RD-2 RD-3 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 B-1 B-2 B-3 I FP
and Services
                           Districts
Business Uses; Food Sales  Agr. RD-1 RD-2 RD-3 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 B-1 B-2 B-3 I FP
and Services
Bakeries (less than 2,500       x                              x   x   x   x
square feet)
Catering establishments         x                              x   x   x   s
Confectionery store             x                              x   x   x   s
Dairy store                     x                              x   x   x   s
Drive-in restaurant             x                              x   x   x   s
Food stores, supermarkets,
meat markets, fish markets      x    s                         x   x   x   s
and delicatessens
Frozen food stores,             x                              x   x   x   x
including locker rental
Fruit stores and stands         x    s                         x   x   x   s
Restaurant (indoor service s    x    s                         x   x   x   s
only-may include catering)
Restaurants - including
live entertainment and     s    x    s                         x   x   x   s
dancing
Restaurants - including
the serving of alcoholic
beverages if incidental to s    x    s                         x   x   x   s
the serving of food as the
principal activity
Retail liquor sales        s    x    s                         x   x   x   s
Tavern, bar, cocktail
lounge, night club, with        x                              x   x   x   s
or without food
Brew pubs, craft           s    x    s
distilleries and wineries
 
 
 
                           Districts
Business Uses; Business,
Private and Financial      Agr. RD-1 RD-2 RD-3 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 B-1 B-2 B-3 I FP
Services
Bank, saving and loan
association, financial          x                              x   x   x
institutions
Business and professional       x    s                         x   x   x
offices
Insurance and real estate       x    s                         x   x   x
office
Temporary real estate
sales or rental office,
model home or apartment         x    s    s    s   s   s   s   x   x   x   s
for a period not to exceed
two years
 
 
                          Districts
Commercial Transportation Agr. RD-1 RD-2 RD-3 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 B-1 B-2 B-3 I FP
Uses
                          Districts
Commercial Transportation Agr. RD-1 RD-2 RD-3 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 B-1 B-2 B-3 I FP
Uses
Airport                   s    s    s
Airstrips                 x    s    s
Bus stations                   x                              x   x   x   x
Heliport                  s    s    s    s    s   s   s   s   s   s   s   s
Railroad stations                                                         x
Taxi stand or offices          x                              x   x   x   x
Truck terminal            s    x    s                         s   s   s   x
 
 
                      Districts
Business Uses; Retail Agr. RD-1 RD-2 RD-3 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 B-1 B-2 B-3 I FP
Sales
                           Districts
Business Uses; Retail      Agr. RD-1 RD-2 RD-3 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 B-1 B-2 B-3 I FP
Sales
Antique shop or used
furniture sales and             x    s                         x   x   x   x
service
Apparel shop                    s                              x   x   x   s
Automat-vending machines -
ice, milk, and the like         s                              x   x   x   s
sales
Bicycle sales and service       s    s                         x   x   x   s
Building material sales -
for retail sales of
dimension lumber,
millwork, cabinets,
concrete blocks, brick,
hardware and similar            x                              x       x   x
building materials, but
not including processing
or manufacture of millwork
and excluding concrete or
asphalt mixing
Business and office             s                              x   x   x   s
machines and service
Camera and photographic         s                              x   x   x   s
supply stores
Carpet and rug stores           s                              x   x   x   s
China and glassware stores      s                              x   x   x   s
Coin and philatelic stores      s                              x   x   x   s
Commercial advertising and      x                              x   x   x   x
business sign shops
Department stare                x                              x   x   x   s
Drug store                      s                              x   x   x   s
Dry goods store                 s                              x   x   x   s
Electrical, gas and
household appliance
stores, including radio         s                              x   x   x   s
and television sales and
service
Florist shops and               s                              x   x   x   s
conservatories
Fuel and ice sales - for
retail sales of coal and
other solid fuels and oil       x                              x   x   x   s
and other liquid fuels not
under pressure
Furniture store - office        x                              x   x   x   s
furniture
Furrier shops, including
the incidental storage and      s                              x   x   x   s
conditioning
Hardware stores                 s                              x   x   x   s
Hobby shops                     s                              x   x   x   s
Jewelry store including         s                              x   x   x   s
watch repair
Lawnmower sales and             s                              x   x   x   s
service
Leather goods and luggage       s                              x   x   x   s
stores
Locksmith shops, sales and      s                              x   x   x   s
service
Mail order houses               s                              x   x   x   s
Monument sales (excludes        s                              x   x   x   s
stone cutting)
Musical instrument sales        s                              x   x   x   s
and repair
Newsstand - book store          s                              x   x   x   s
Optical sales, retail           s                              x   x   x   s
Orthopedic and medical
appliance stores - retail       s                              x   x   x   s
only
Paint and wallpaper stores      s                              x   x   x   s
Pawn shop                       s                              x   x   x   s
Pet shop                        s                              x   x   x   s
Phonograph record and           s                              x   x   x   s
sheet music stores
Plumbing showrooms, sales       s                              x   x   x   s
and service
Religious goods stores          s                              x   x   x   s
Second-hand stores, thrift      s    s                         x   x   x   s
stores and rummage shops
Sewing machine sales and        s                              x   x   x   s
service
Shoe store                      s                              x   x   x   s
Shopping center                 s                                      s   s
Sporting goods sales and        s                              x   x   x   s
service
Stationery - gift shop -
art supplies, school            s                              x   x   x   s
supplies
Tobacconist and smoke           s                              x   x   x   s
shops
Toy stores                      s                              x   x   x   s
Variety stores                  s                              x   x   x   s
 
 
               Districts
Business Uses; Agr. RD-1 RD-2 RD-3 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 B-1 B-2 B-3 I FP
Recreational
                           Districts
Business Uses;             Agr. RD-1 RD-2 RD-3 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 B-1 B-2 B-3 I FP
Recreational
Amusement establishments -
bowling alleys, dance
halls, gymnasiums,
swimming pools, skating         x                              s   s   x   s
rinks, archery ranges
(enclosed), shoot
galleries (enclosed) and
similar uses
Amusement park, including
permanent carnivals,
kiddie parks, golf driving
ranges, par three and           x                              s   s   s   s
miniature golf courses and
other similar outdoor
amusement facilities
Bait sales                 s    x    s                         x   x   x   x s
Boat sales, rentals,
storage and repair
including sales and        s    x    s                         s   s   x   x
service of marine motors,
boat parts and accessories
and boat fuels
Circus or carnival              s    s                         s       s   s
Commercial fishing lake    s    s    s    s                                s s
Country club or golf       s    s    s    s    s
course
Lodge or private club      s    s    s                         x   s   x   x
(non-profit)
Marinas and boat landing
facilities including boat
sales, rentals, storage
and repair, sales and                s                                       s
service of marine motors,
boat parts and accessories
and boat fuel sales
Music festivals            s    s    s                         s   s   s   s
Pool halls, billiard room       s                              x   x   x   s
Public camp, campground or s    x    s    s                                  s
park area
Resort or organized camp   s    s    s    s                                  s
Riding stable              x    x    s    s
Seasonal hunting or             s    s
fishing lodge
Skeet and trap, rifle,     s         s
handgun ranges (outdoors)
Stadium or coliseum,
auditoriums and arenas -
open or enclosed; banquet  s    s    s                                 s   s
halls/reception halls,
event venue
Theater, enclosed               s                              x   x   x   s
Theater, outdoor                s    s                                 s   s
 
 
               Districts
Business Uses; Agr. RD-1 RD-2 RD-3 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 B-1 B-2 B-3 I FP
Miscellaneous
                           Districts
Business Uses;             Agr. RD-1 RD-2 RD-3 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 B-1 B-2 B-3 I FP
Miscellaneous
Aggregate stockpile areas       x    s                                 s   x
Auction house (non-animal)      x    s                         s   s   s   x
Aviation sales, service or s    s    s
storage
Bituminous concrete mixing      s                                      s   x
plant
Cemetery or crematory      s    s    s    s    s   s   s   s
Christmas tree sales lot   x    x    s                         x   x   x   x
Commercial breeding        x    s    s                                       s
facility
Contractors and
construction offices,      s    x    s                         x   x   x   x
shops, without outside
storage
Contractors and
construction outside       s    x    s                         s   s   s   x
storage with or without
offices and shops
Kennel                     s    x    s                                 s   s
Landscape waste composting s    s
facility
Mining, loading and
hauling of sand, gravel,   s    s    s    s                                s s
topsoil, stone or other
aggregates
Mining of coal             s    s    s    s                                s s
Mobile home sales               x                                      s   s
Model homes or garage           x    s    s    s   s   s   s   s   s   x   x
displays
Oil extraction and         x    x    s    s                                s s
drilling
Parcel delivery, cartage        x                              s   s   x   x
and express facilities
Portland cement concrete        s                                      s   x
mixing or batch plant
Self storage rental units  s    x    s                         s   s   x   x
Signs
Signs (300 square feet     x    x    s                         s   s   s   x
maximum size)
Signs (over 300 square          s    s                                     s
feet)
Storage or construction equipment and supplies for the use on a construction
project for the duration
Upon the construction      x    x    x                                     x
property
Upon adjacent property     x    x    s                                     x
Temporary buildings for
construction purposes, for
a period not to exceed the x    x    x    x    x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x
duration of the
construction
Recreational vehicle sales      x                                      s   s
Veterinary hospital or     s    x    s                                 s   s
establishment
Wholesale business              x                              s   s   s   x
 
 
           Districts
Industrial Agr. RD-1 RD-2 RD-3 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 B-1 B-2 B-3 I FP
                           Districts
Industrial                 Agr. RD-1 RD-2 RD-3 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 B-1 B-2 B-3 I FP
Breweries                                                                  x
Commercial bakeries
(greater than 2,500 sq.         s                                      s   x
ft.)
Dairy plants                    s                                      s   x
Equipment repairs and           s                              s       s   x
storage
Light industry                  s                              s       s   x
Machine shops                   s                              s       s   x
Manufacturing and bottling                                                 x
of non-alcoholic beverages
Ethanol plants                  s                                          x
Manufacturing, fabrication, packing, packaging and assembly of products from:
Furs                                                                       x
Glass                                                                      x
Leather                                                                    x
Metals                                                                     x
Paper                                                                      x
Plaster                                                                    x
Textiles                                                                   x
Wood                                                                       x
Manufacturing, fabrication, processing, packaging and packing of:
Confections                                                                x
Cosmetics                                                                  x
Electrical appliances                                                      x
Electronic devices                                                         x
Toiletries                                                                 x
Railroad or truck freight       s                                  s   s   x
yards
Railroad roundhouses,
maintenance shops and.                                                     x
storage
Research laboratories      s    s                                  s   s   x
Storage and sale of             s                              s       s   x
machinery and equipment
Warehousing                     s                              s       s   x
 
 
                 Districts
Heavy Industrial Agr. RD-1 RD-2 RD-3 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 B-1 B-2 B-3 I FP
                           Districts
Heavy Industrial           Agr. RD-1 RD-2 RD-3 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 B-1 B-2 B-3 I FP
Bag cleaning                                                               s
Bleacheries                                                                s
Bulk gas storage and sales      s                              s       s   x
(gasoline)
Bulk storage of propane,
butane, or similar              s                              s       s   s
hydrocarbon products for
distribution
Canneries                                                                  s
Cold storage warehouses                                                    x
CO2 injection wells        Prohibited in all districts
Creosoting, Pina testing,
or similar treatment of                                                    s
wood products and their
storage
Drainage ditches, flumes
and necessary appurtenant  x    x    x    x    x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x x
structures
Electric generating
stations, necessary
appurtenant facilities and
structures, including
dams, spillways, water               s                                     s s
reservoirs, artificial
lakes, cooling towers,
facilities and related
structures
Electroplating                                                             s
Enameling                                                                  s
Forges                                                                     s
Foundries                                                                  s
Heavy industry such as,
but not restricted to, the
following: manufacturing,
processing and storage of:
abrasives, acetylene,
acid, alkalies, ammonia,
asbestos, asphalt,
batteries, bedding,
bleach, bone, foods,
candles, carpeting,
celluloid, cement,
charcoal, chemicals,
chlorine, coal tar,
cordage, creosote,
dectrine, disinfectant,
dye, excelsior, felt,
fuel, furs, glucose,
gypsum, hair products,                                                     s
ink, insecticide, lime
products, linoleum,
matches, oil cloth, paint,
paper, perfume, plaster of
paris, plastics, poison,
potash, pulp, pyroxilin,
radium, rope, rubber,
starch, stove polish,
textiles, varnish,
building materials,
explosives, dry ice, fat,
fertilizer, flammables,
gasoline, glue, grease,
lard, radioactive
material, shellac, soap,
turpentine, vinegar,
yeasts
Incinerators                                                               s
Lacquering                                                                 s
Lithographing                                                              s
Offal                                                                      s
Oil, coal and bone                                                         s
distillation
Outside storage and                                                        s
manufacturing areas
Railroad rights-of-way,
railroad tracks, spur
tracks and auxiliary            x    x    x    x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x x
facilities for railroad
track operations
Refineries                                                                 s
Road test facilities                                                       s
Rubbish or animal                                                          s
reduction
Slaughter houses                s                                          s
Smelting                                                                   s
Tanneries                                                                  s
Weaving                                                                    s
Wrecking, junk demolition  s    s    s                                     s
and scrap yards
 
(Prior Code, § 152.053) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 5-11-1982; Ord.
passed 9-14-1989: Ord. passed 7-12-1990; Ord. passed 6-11-1992; Ord. passed 7-
13-1995; Ord. passed 8-30-2012; Ord. passed 7- 10-2014; Ord. passed 4-21-2022;
Ord. passed 8-24-2023; Ord. passed 6-20-2024; Ord. passed 10-24-2024)
AREA REGULATIONS
§ 155.065 DISTRICT LOT REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to erect or alter any structure within the county or
the incorporated municipalities affected by this chapter, unless the following
minimum lot and yard areas and bulk controls are provided and maintained in
connection with the structure.
Minimum Lot Requirements by District
         Minimum  Maximum   Minimum Minimum   Minimum   Minimum  Minimum Side
District Area     Building  Width   Road      Front     Rear     Yard Setback
         (Square  Height    (feet)  Frontage  Setback   Setback  (feet)(b)
         Feet)(g) (feet)(i)         (feet)    (feet)(a) (feet)
Minimum Lot Requirements by District
         Minimum  Maximum   Minimum Minimum   Minimum   Minimum  Minimum Side
District Area     Building  Width   Road      Front     Rear     Yard Setback
         (Square  Height    (feet)  Frontage  Setback   Setback  (feet)(b)
         Feet)(g) (feet)(i)         (feet)    (feet)(a) (feet)
A        87,120   None      240     240       50        35       15
RD-1(h)  87,120   60        240     240       50(e)     35       15
RD-2     87,120   35        240     240       50        35       15
RD-3     21,780   35        150     150       30        20       15
R-1      12,150   35        90      90        30        20(c)    10
R-2      7,350    35        70      70        20        20(c)    6
R-3      9,600(d) 60        80      80        20        20(c)    6
R-4      7,350    35        70      70        20        20(c)    6
B-1      None     60        None    None      None      None     None
B-2      8,500    35        66      66        30(e)     20(e)    10
B-3(f)   21,780   35        66      66        50(e)     20       20
I(f)     8,500    None      66      66        10        30       10
FP       None     None      None    None(i)   None      None     None
NOTES TO TABLE: See accompanying footnotes:
(a) Where adjacent structures have front yard setbacks different from those
required, the minimum front yard setback shall be the average setback of the
structure.
(b) Buildings over two stories in height shall require five feet for each
additional story in addition to the required minimum side yard.
(c) Detached residential structures may be constructed five feet from the
rear property line and three feet from an interior lot line; provided, the
provisions of §
155.096(B)(5) are met. Non-residential structures in districts in Districts
A, RD-1 and RD-2 may be constructed 15 feet from the rear property line.
(d) Multi-family dwellings must also comply with the land use intensity
standards given in §
155.046.
(e) May be used for parking development.
(f) If not served by public sewer, must conform to RD-1 specifications for
lot area if sewage disposal is required.
(g) If not served by public sewer, must at least conform to the
specifications provided an this table and the County Board may require larger
lots if the increases are warranted because of soil capabilities, as provided
for in §
155.009.
(h) Highway access (includes entrance and exit) shall not be permitted in
less than 500-foot intervals.
(i) Exceptions from building height maximums may be granted as a special use
permit.
 
(Prior Code, § 152.065) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 9-14-1995; Ord.
passed 8-30-2012; Ord. passed 3-24-2022; Ord. passed 6-20-2024) Penalty, see §
155.999
SPECIAL USE REGULATIONS
§ 155.080 APPLICATION.
   The following regulations set forth in this subchapter shall apply to all
zoning districts unless specifically stated otherwise. Determination of
potential or actual non-compliance with the special regulations shall be made
by the County Board or its duly appointed agent.
(Prior Code, § 152.075) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024)
§ 155.081 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Residual features. No activity or operation shall be established or
maintained which, by reason of its nature or manner of operation, will cause
the emission of noise, odor, toxic or noxious fumes, smoke, dust and
particulate matter in concentrations as to be detrimental to or endanger the
public health, welfare, comfort and safety or cause injury to property or
business.
   (B)   Glare. Any lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking area or
sign shall be arranged so as to deflect light away from any adjoining
residential property or from the public streets. Direct or sky reflected glare,
whether from flood lights or from high temperature processes such as combustion
or welding, shall not be directed into any adjoining property.
   (C)   Explosives. No activities involving the storage, utilization or
manufacture of materials, goods or products which could decompose by detonation
shall be permitted, except such as are specifically licensed by the County
Board.
   (D)   Vibration. No activity or operation shall cause earth vibrations
perceptible beyond the limits of the lot upon which the operation is located,
except such as are specifically permitted by the County Board.
   (E)   Enclosed space. All fabrication, manufacturing, processing or
production shall be undertaken substantially within enclosed buildings.
   (F)   Screening. Where outdoor storage of materials, goods and products
exists within the General Industrial District, the storage shall be effectively
screened from adjacent residential districts and public streets by a solid
fence, compact hedge or similar opaque landscaped element. The screening shall
be placed along property lines or, in the case of screening along a street, 15
feet from the street right-of-way or adjacent property line with landscaping
between the screening and the pavement A louvered fence shall be considered
“solid” if it blocks direct vision.
   (G)   Refuse. All waste material, debris, refuse or garbage not disposed of
through the public sanitary sewerage system shall be kept in an enclosed
building or properly contained in a closed container designed for those
purposes. The owner of vacant land shall be responsible for keeping the land
free of refuse.
   (H)   Landscaping. In all but the General Commercial and General Industrial
Districts all developed uses shall provide a landscaped yard along the all
streets. The yard shall be kept clear of structures and storage except off-
street parking. The yard shall be at least eight feet in depth along all
streets, measured from the street right-of-way. Except for driveways, the yard
shall extend the entire frontage of the lot and along both streets in the case
of a corner lot.
   (I)   Drainage. No land shall be developed and no use shall be permitted
that results in water run-off, flooding or erosion on adjacent properties. The
run-off shall be properly channeled into a storm drain, water course, ponding
area or other public facilities.
   (J)   Construction within the floodplain. Construction in areas subject to
flooding shall conform to regulations set forth in §
155.052.
   (K)   Junk motor vehicles or equipment. Parking of junk motor vehicles or
equipment is prohibited in all areas, except Industrial Districts. All
contractor’s equipment or tools or junk motor vehicles shall be parked or
stored in a completely enclosed structure on any residential premises, except
when making a delivery or rendering a service at the premises. Contractor’s
equipment shall not be construed to include pickup or paneled trucks.
   (L)   Medical cannabis cultivation centers and dispensaries - compliance
with state regulations and rules. Each cultivation center and all dispensaries
shall comply with the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act
(Ch. 410, Act 130, §§ 1 et seq.) and all rules and regulations adopted in
accordance thereto.
(Prior Code, § 152.076) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 9-11-1997; Ord.
passed 7-10-2014; Ord. passed 6-20-2024) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.082 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum number of parking spaces required:
      (1)   None required in General Commercial District (to be provided in
common area);
      (2)   Single-family dwellings: two per dwelling unit;
      (3)   Multi-family units: 1.2 per dwelling unit, except elderly housing
projects which shall have one-half space per dwelling unit;
      (4)   Churches, auditoriums, mortuaries and other similar places of
assembly; one for every four seats;
      (5)   Sanitariums, convalescent homes: one for four beds;
      (6)   Retail commerce other than in General Commercial District:
         (a)   Restaurant: one for every three seats; and
         (b)   Other retail: one for every 100 square feet of retail floor
space, but in no case less than one and one-half square feet (gross parking
area) to one square foot (gross building floor area).
      (7)   Service commerce other than General Commercial District:
         (a)   Motels: one per unit;
         (b)   Personal and professional offices: one for every 150 square feet
of office floor space; and
         (c)   Other service commerce: one for 2,000 square feet of gross floor
space.
      (8)   Industrial including wholesale: one for every 1.3 persons of
maximum employment during any work period; and
      (9)   Mobile home parks: two spaces per lot.
   (B)   Minimum size of parking spaces: 250 square feet of standing and
maneuvering space.
   (C)   Location of parking spaces.
      (1)   Spaces for dwelling on the same lot as the dwelling unit;
      (2)   Spaces for commercial uses not in the General Commercial District
or for public or semi-public uses within 300 feet of the main entrance of the
building served; and
      (3)   No off-street parking spaces to be located within five feet of any
street right-of-way.
   (D)   Surfacing and drainage off-street parking areas and access ways other
than those for one- and two-family dwellings shall be surfaced with a durable
material to control dust and shall be graded so as to dispose of all surface
water.
(Prior Code, § 152.077) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024) Penalty,
see §
155.999
§ 155.083 OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum number of off-street loading spaces required. An adequate
number of off-street loading spaces shall be provided for all structures which
require the receipt and distribution of materials or merchandise by trucks or
similar vehicles so as to assure unrestricted movement of both pedestrians and
motor vehicles throughout the entire active areas of the municipality.
   (B)   Minimum size of off-street loading berths.
      (1)   Width: ten feet;
      (2)   Length: 50 feet; and
      (3)   Vertical clearance: 14 feet.
   (C)   Location of off-street loading berths. No closer than 25 feet from the
intersection of two street rights-of-way.
   (D)   Surfacing and drainage. Surfacing and drainage of off-street loading
berths and accessways shall be hard surfaced to control dust and shall be
graded to dispose of all surface water.
(Prior Code, § 152.078) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024) Penalty,
see §
155.999
§ 155.084 SIGNS.
   (A)   Permit required. Except those specified in division (B) of this
section, no signs shall hereafter be located, erected, moved, reconstructed,
extended, enlarged, converted or structurally altered without a zoning permit
and without being in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. The sign
shall also meet all structural requirements of other applicable codes and
ordinances of the county and state statutes.
   (B)   Signs excepted. All signs must have a building permit, except the
following:
      (1)   Signs over show windows or doors of a non-conforming business
establishment announcing without display or elaboration only the name and
occupation of the proprietor and not to exceed two feet in height and ten feet
in length;
      (2)   Real estate signs not to exceed eight square feet in area which
advertise the sale, rental or lease of the premises upon which the signs are
temporarily located;
      (3)   Name, occupation and warning signs not to exceed two square feet
located on the premises;
      (4)   Bulletin boards for public, charitable or religious institutions
not to exceed 32 square feet in area located on the premises;
      (5)   Memorial signs, tablets, names of buildings and date of erection
when cut into any masonry surface or when constructed of metal and affixed flat
against the structure;
      (6)   Official signs such as traffic control, parking restrictions,
information and notices; and
      (7)   Temporary signs when authorized by the Administrator for a period
not to exceed 30 days.
   (C)   Signs permitted. Signs are permitted for all commercial and industrial
uses subject to the following restrictions.
      (1)   Wall signs placed against the exterior walls of buildings shall not
extend more than six inches outside of building’s wall surface, shall not
exceed 300 square feet in area for any one premises, and shall not exceed 20
feet in height above the main centerline street grade.
      (2)   Projecting signs fastened to, suspended from or supported by
structures shall not exceed 300 square feet in area for any one premises; shall
not extend more than six feet into any required yard; shall not extend more
than three feet into any public right-of-way; shall not be less than ten feet
above the sidewalk nor 15 feet above a driveway or an alley.
      (3)   Ground signs shall not exceed 20 feet in height above the main
centerline street grade, shall meet all yard requirements for the district in
which they are located and shall not exceed 300 square feet on all sides for
any one premises.
      (4)   Roof signs shall not exceed ten feet in height above the roof,
shall meet all yard and height requirements for the district in which they are
located and shall not exceed 300 square feet on all sides for any one premises.
      (5)   Combinations of any of the above signs shall meet all the
requirements for the individual sign.
   (D)   Signs specifically prohibited.
      (1)   Signs that display the words “Stop” or “Danger”; and
      (2)   Signs utilizing flashing lights.
   (E)   Facing. No sign except those permitted in division (B) of this section
shall be permitted to face a residential use within 100 feet of the lot line.
   (F)   Traffic. Signs shall not resemble, imitate or approximate the shape,
size, form or color of railroad or traffic signs or devices. Signs shall not
obstruct or interfere with the effect of railroad or traffic signs, signals or
devices. No sign shall be erected, relocated or maintained so as to prevent
free ingress to or egress from any door, window or fire escape; and no sign
shall be attached to a standpipe or fire escape. No sign shall be placed as to
obstruct or interfere with traffic visibility.
   (G)   Existing signs.
      (1)   Signs lawfully existing at the time of the adoption or amendment of
this chapter may be continued although the use, size or location does not
conform with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   However, it shall be deemed a non-conforming use or structure and
the provisions of §§
155.110 through
155.113 shall apply.
   (H)   Miscellaneous requirements.
      (1)   The owner, lessee or manager of any ground sign or owner of the
land on which the same is located shall keep grass or weeds and other growth
cut, and debris and rubbish cleaned up and removed from the lot on which the
sign is located.
      (2)   Any sign or sign structure which may be or may hereafter become
rotted, unsafe or unsightly shall be repaired or removed by the licensee, owner
or manager of the property upon which the sign stands upon written notice of
the Administrator or police officer.
(Prior Code, § 152.079) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024) Penalty,
see §
155.999
§ 155.085 KENNELS; VETERINARY ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   They shall be located no closer than 100 feet to any residential
district, restaurant, hotel or motel in any district and shall show that
adequate measures and controls shall be taken to prevent offensive noise and
odor.
   (B)   No incineration of refuse shall be permitted on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 152.080) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024) Penalty,
see §
155.999
§ 155.086 COUNTRY CLUB; GOLF COURSE.
   (A)   No building shall be located within 100 feet of any property line.
   (B)   Facilities such as restaurants and bars may be permitted when
conducted and entered from within the building.
   (C)   Swimming pools, tennis courts and the like shall be located no less
than 25 feet from any property line and adjoining property in any residence or
commercial district shall be effectively protected by a wall hedge and/or
screen planting.
(Prior Code, § 152.081) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024) Penalty,
see §
155.999
§ 155.087 GOLF DRIVING RANGES AND AMUSEMENT PARKS.
   Golf driving ranges and amusement parks shall be located on major or
secondary thoroughfares or non-residential streets. Flood lights used to
illuminate the premises are so directed and shielded as not to be an annoyance
to any developed residential property. Golf driving platforms shall not be less
than 200 feet from any adjacent Residence District or existing dwelling. A
temporary certificate may be granted to be in force for one year only which
certificate may be renewed for a period of one year at the expiration of the
certificate; provided, all requirements of this chapter have been and can
continue to be complied with.
(Prior Code, § 152.082) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024) Penalty,
see §
155.999
§ 155.088 CEMETERIES; CREMATORIES; COLUMBARIUMS.
   Cemeteries, crematories, mausoleums and columbariums shall provide entrance
on a major street or road with ingress and egress so designated as to minimize
traffic congestion, shall provide required off-street parking space and shall
provide a minimum six-foot high wall or minimum three-foot thick, six-foot high
evergreen hedge or provide a minimum 20 feet of permanently maintained planting
strip on all property lines abutting any residential district or residential
street.
(Prior Code, § 152.083) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024) Penalty,
see §
155.999
§ 155.089 HOSPITALS, CHURCHES OR OTHER RELIGIOUS OR ELEEMOSYNARY INSTITUTIONS.
   Hospital, church or other religious or eleemosynary institutions shall be
located on a major street on a minimum parcel of one-half acre and shall
maintain a ten-foot wide minimum landscaped strip on all property lines
abutting residential districts and on all residential streets.
(Prior Code, § 152.084) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024) Penalty,
see §
155.999
§ 155.090 SHOOTING CLUB.
   A shooting club shall not be located within one mile of any developed
residential, commercial or industrial area, or place of public assembly. A
temporary certificate will be granted, to be in force for one year only, which
certificate may be renewed for a period of one year at the expiration of each
temporary certificate; provided, the above requirements are met.
(Prior Code, § 152.085) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024) Penalty,
see §
155.999
§ 155.091 AMUSEMENT CENTERS, BOWLING ALLEYS, DANCE HALLS AND SIMILAR PLACES OF
AMUSEMENT.
   Amusement centers, bowling alleys, dance halls and similar places of
amusement shall provide parking with ingress and egress designed so as to
minimize traffic congestions, shall not be less than 20 feet from any property
lines, provide a minimum six-foot solid board fence or masonry wall separating
parking areas from abutting residential property and shall show that adequate
controls or measures will be taken to prevent offensive noise and vibration.
(Prior Code, § 152.086) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024) Penalty,
see §
155.999
§ 155.092 APARTMENTS; MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   (A)   The RECREATION SPACE RATIO, defined as the minimum square footage of
recreation space required for each square foot of floor area, is not less than
0.16.
   (B)   The FLOOR AREA RATIO, defined as the maximum square footage or total
floor area permitted for each foot of land, is not more than 0.32.
   (C)   The OPEN SPACE RATIO, defined as the minimum square footage of open
space required for each square foot of floor area, is not less than 2.0.
   (D)   The LIVING SPACE RATIO, defined as the minimum square footage of non-
vehicular outdoor space required for each square foot of floor area, is not
less than 1.2.
   (E)   The OCCUPANT CAR RATIO, defined as the minimum number of off-street
parking spaces without parking time limits required for each living unit is not
less than 1.2; except that, in housing development projects for the elderly,
this ratio shall not be less than 0.5.
(Prior Code, § 152.087) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024) Penalty,
see §
155.999
§ 155.093 STANDARDS FOR HOME OCCUPATION.
   (A)   General. It is the intent of this section to prohibit as home
occupations all uses except those that conform to the standards as set forth in
this section. In general, a home occupation is an accessory use, so located and
conducted, that the average citizen, under normal circumstances, would not be
aware of its existence other than for a nameplate as permitted elsewhere in
this section. The standards for home occupations in this section are intended
to help ensure compatibility with other permitted uses and with the residential
character of the area, plus a clearly secondary or incidental status in
relation to the residential use of the property as the criteria for determining
whether a proposed accessory use qualifies as a home occupation.
   (B)   Authorization. Home occupations are permitted in any dwelling unit
subject to the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Permitted home occupations. The following are examples of uses which
often can be conducted within the limits of the provisions of this section, as
a home occupation. Uses which qualify as home occupations are not necessarily
limited to those named in this section, nor does the listing of a use in this
section automatically qualify that use as a permitted home occupation:
      (1)   Artists and sculptors;
      (2)   Authors and composers;
      (3)   Dressmakers, seamstresses and tailors;
      (4)   Family day care home, limited to no more than seven children;
provided that, all state and local rules and regulations are met;
      (5)   Home crafts, such as model making, rug weaving, lapidary work and
woodworking;
      (6)   Office facility for a minister, pastor, priest or rabbi;
      (7)   Office facility for a salesperson, sales representative or
manufacturer’s representative; provided that, any transaction which may occur
does not include the exchange or delivery of goods, products or materials to
the customer other than small parcels which may be easily carried by the
average citizen;
      (8)   Office facility for an architect, artists, broker, dentist,
physician, engineer, instructor in arts and crafts, insurance agent, land
surveyor, lawyer, musician or real estate agent;
      (9)   School of special education whose class size does not exceed two
pupils at any given time;
      (10)   Antique shop, except the stripping and refinishing of furniture
and the storage of chemicals used in the stripping and refinishing of furniture
shall not be permitted;
      (11)   Barbershop and beauty shop;
      (12)   Photography studio;
      (13)   Music or dance lessons, provided class size does not exceed two
pupils at any one time; and, provided that, the use of amplified instruments is
not involved;
      (14)   Upholstering;
      (15)   Repair shop or service establishments; provided that, the repairs
shall be limited to the repair of small electrical appliances, cameras and
similar items; and
      (16)   Gun smithing.
   (D)   Home occupations prohibited. The following uses by their nature,
investment or operation have a substantial tendency to be out of character,
offensive or potentially injurious to the public’
      (1)   Animal hospitals;
      (2)   Clinics or hospitals;
      (3)   Restaurants;
      (4)   Stables or kennels;
      (5)   Day care centers (except family day care homes for seven children
or less);
      (6)   Mortuaries;
      (7)   Private clubs;
      (8)   Renting equipment, vehicles, trailers and other similar items;
      (9)   Apartments and boarding rooms;
      (10)   Automobile, truck, boat and similar repairs, minor or major;
      (11)   Dental and medical offices;
      (12)   Private schools with organized classes;
      (13)   Ammunition reloading;
      (14)   Body shop;
      (15)   Painting shop for cars, trucks, trailers and the like;
      (16)   Retail sales and display establishments;
      (17)   Commercial storage or warehousing; and
      (18)   Carpentry shop.
   (E)   Use limitations. In addition to the provisions of the particular
zoning districts in which located, all home occupations shall be subject to the
following additional use limitations.
      (1)   A home occupation must be conducted entirely within a dwelling unit
which is the bona fide residence of the principal practitioner, or in an
accessory building thereto, which is normally associated with a residential
use.
      (2)   Except for items or articles produced on the premises, no stock in
trade shall be displayed or sold on the premises.
      (3)   The home occupation shall be incidental and subordinate to the
principal residential use.
      (4)   Not more than one employee, other than members of the family
residing on the premises, may be engaged in the occupation.
      (5)   In no way shall the appearance of the structure be altered or
changed, or the occupation within the residence be conducted in a manner which
would cause the premises to differ from its residential character either by the
use of colors, materials, construction, entrances and exits, lighting, signs or
the emission of sounds, noises or vibration.
      (6)   No traffic shall be generated by the home occupation in greater
volume than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, and any
need for parking generated by the conduct of the home occupation shall be met
off the street and other than in a required front yard.
      (7)   No commercial vehicle type shall be used in connection with the
home occupation or parked on the premises.
      (8)   There shall be no outside storage of any kind related to the home
occupation.
      (9)   Only one nameplate shall be allowed. It may display the name of the
occupant and/or the name of the home occupation (such as, Joe Doe, Accountant).
It shall not exceed one square foot in area, shall be non-illuminated and shall
be attached to the main structure, visible through a window or attached to a
single pole not more than six feet high, and located on the premises, not upon
any public way. The limitation to one nameplate is intended to apply to all
lots, including corner lots.
      (10)   All delivery of goods and materials used in the home occupation
shall be made by ordinary and common parcel delivery vans, not to include large
motor freight carrier vehicles.
   (F)   Permit required. Any person desiring to establish a home occupation is
required to submit a permit application and secure the required permit, prior
to the establishment of the proposed home occupation, on forms provided by the
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 152.088) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 8-30-2012; Ord.
passed 6-20-2024) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.094 SPECIAL COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENTS.
   Any commercial development permitted as a special use in the rural
development districts shall not be granted a zoning permit by the County Board
until the following determinations are made in writing:
   (A)   The development will be appropriately screened from any adjoining road
or property; and
   (B)   The traffic generated (lights, noise or hours of operation) will not
be a nuisance to opposite or abutting property owners.
(Prior Code, § 152.089) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024)
§ 155.095 MOBILE HOME RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Manufactured and mobile homes may be placed only in the R-4 Mobile
Home Residential District or in areas approved and licensed as mobile home
parks by the State Department of Public Health (IDPH).
   (B)   (1)   In areas located in the R-4 District, the minimum lot
requirements contained in this chapter shall be met.
      (2)   Lot sizes within mobile home parks shall be regulated by the IDPH.
   (C)   Manufactured and mobile homes shall comply with the provisions of the
Mobile Home Owners Tiedown Act, being ILCS Ch. 210, Act 120, as administered by
the IDPH.
   (D)   Manufactured and mobile homes shall have impervious materials,
commonly referred to as “skirting”, completely surrounding the perimeter of the
dwelling between the floor and the ground surface.
   (E)   If not connected to municipal water and/or sewer supply systems,
manufactured and mobile homes shall comply with all applicable Health
Department regulations concerning water well and/or septic systems.
(Prior Code, § 152.090) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-11-1992; Ord.
passed 11-15-2001; Ord. passed 8-30-2012; Ord. passed 6-20-2024) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.096 MODIFICATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Height. The district height limitations stipulated elsewhere in this
chapter may be exceeded, but the modification shall be in accord with the
following:
      (1)   Architectural projections, such as spires, belfries, parapet walls,
cupolas, domes, flues and chimneys, are exempt from the height limitations of
this chapter;
      (2)   Special structures, such as elevator penthouses, gas tanks, grain
elevators, electric generating stations, lightening rods, scenery lofts, radio
and television receiving antennas, manufacturing equipment and necessary
mechanical appurtenances, cooling towers, fire towers, substations, smoke
stacks and flag poles are exempt from the height limitations of this chapter;
      (3)   Essential services, utilities, water towers, electric power and
communication transmission lines are exempt from the height limitations of this
chapter;
      (4)   Communication structures, such as radio and television transmission
relay towers, aerials and observation towers, shall not exceed in height three
times their distance from the nearest lot line; and
      (5)   Public or semi-public facilities, such as schools, churches,
hospitals, monuments, sanitariums, libraries, governmental offices and
stations, may be erected to a height of 60 feet; provided, all required yards
are increased not less than one foot for each foot the structure exceeds the
district’s maximum height requirements.
   (B)   Yards. Residential accessory uses and detached, residential garages,
storage sheds and other similar buildings are permitted in the rear yard only,
shall comply with all minimum front yard requirements of this code, but may be
constructed five feet from the rear lot line and three feet to an interior lot
line. They shall not exceed more than 25 feet in height. However, a detached
residential garage proposed to be constructed having its vehicular access doors
facing toward the front lot line shall not be closer than 25 feet from the
front property line. These restrictions do not apply to structures used only
for agricultural purposes.
      (1)   Uncovered stairs, landings and fire escapes may project into any
yard, but not to exceed six feet and not closer than three feet to any lot
line.
      (2)   Architectural projections, such as chimneys, flues, sills, eaves,
belt courses and ornaments, may project into any required yard; but the
projection shall not exceed two feet.
      (3)   Residential fences are permitted to be erected on the property
line; provided that, in any required front yard, they shall be no higher than
four feet in height and shall be of an open type (such as, chain link or
wrought iron) which does not limit, inhibit or restrict reasonable visibility
through it by pedestrians, cyclists or motorists. Fences erected along interior
lot lines or the rear property line may be solid and shall not exceed eight
feet in height.
      (4)   Security fences for commercial, industrial or governmental uses are
permitted to be erected on property lines; provided that, they shall be no
higher than ten feet in height, shall be of an open type such as chain link or
wrought iron and not in conflict with §
155.081.
      (5)   Accessory uses and detached accessory structures may be permitted,
provided that they are not proposed to be constructed or erected in the front
yard and comply with the remaining provisions of this chapter.
      (6)   Essential services, utilities, electrical power and communication
transmission lines are exempt from the yard and distance requirements of this
chapter.
      (7)   Landscaping and vegetation may be planted and maintained on
property lines. Landscaping planted in the front shall be of the type and
variety that it does not limit, inhibit or restrict reasonable visibility
through it by either pedestrians, cyclists or the motorists. It shall be the
responsibility of the property owner to maintain, trim or otherwise ensure that
landscaping and vegetation do not encroach upon any public way or cause
visibility problems.
   (C)   Additions. Additions in the front yards of existing structures shall
not project beyond the average of the existing front yards on the abutting lot
or parcels.
   (D)   Average front yards. The required front yards may be decreased to the
average of the existing front yards of the abutting structures on each side.
   (E)   Noise. Sirens, whistles and bells which are maintained and utilized
solely to serve a public purpose are not to be enjoined under the performance
standards section of this chapter.
   (F)   General filling. Filling of low areas with earth or gravel or with
earth covered bricks, blocks, broken concrete or broken paving material, all
free from refuse, as may be permitted by the State Environmental Protection
Agency and the County Health Department; provided that, the areas are not
located in the special flood hazard area. This provision shall not relieve any
property owner from compliance with any other applicable laws, regulations or
agreements.
(Prior Code, § 152.091) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 9-14-1989; Ord.
passed 9-14-1995; Ord. passed 12-14-1995; Res. 2016-01, passed 1- 21-2016; Ord.
passed 6-20-2024) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.097 SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   On a property of four acres or more, two single-family dwellings will be
permitted if the property conforms completely to the following.
   (A)   Single-family dwellings are permitted in the zoned district.
   (B)   If the property is divided, it will consist of two lots, each having a
single-family dwelling and each lot fully conforming to all the requirements of
the zoned districts.
   (C)   Both dwellings are served by separate sanitary facilities.
(Prior Code, § 152.092) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024) Penalty,
see §
155.999
§ 155.098 LANDSCAPE WASTE COMPOSTING FACILITY.
   All applications for permit for the establishment, construction and
operation of a landscape waste composting facility shall be subject to the
following exhibits, rules and standards.
   (A)   Required exhibits shall include the following:
      (1)   A boundary survey at a scale of one inch equals 100 feet together
with the complete legal description of the proposed property;
      (2)   A boundary map depicting the existing topography at no less than
two-foot contours, showing the ownership of all adjacent property and the
existence of any 100-year floodplains;
      (3)   A detailed site plan showing the existing and proposed drainage on
and adjacent to the proposed site, plans for ingress and egress, internal
access ways, existing and proposed buildings, structures, parking and landscape
waste storage areas on the site, the location of all buildings within 500 feet
of the proposed site boundary, the location of all wells within 500 feet of the
proposed site boundary;
      (4)   Written plans for dust and odor control, fire protection and
emergency response plan, a statement as to the depth of and the planned methods
to be used to ensure that compost and/or leachate does not penetrate the water
table, and the plans for collection and treatment of the leachate;
      (5)   A statement as to the landscape waste intended to be accepted,
methods of handling, machinery and equipment requirements, materials
anticipated to be produced at the site, handling and disposal plans for non-
compostable landscape waste, site security, lighting and procedures for drop-
off control;
      (6)   A list of all permits that have previously been issued on the site;
and
      (7)   The intended hours of operation.
   (B)   Landscape waste composting facilities shall comply with the following
rules and standards.
      (1)   Landscape waste composting facilities shall be located on a site
containing at least ten acres.
      (2)   Landscape waste composting facilities shall be located outside the
100-year floodplain.
      (3)   Landscape waste composting facilities shall be prohibited from
accepting, collecting, storing, or in any way placing on the site any municipal
solid waste, garbage, junk, unlicensed and/or inoperative vehicles, building
demolition waste or other debris.
      (4)   Landscape waste composting facilities shall be located no closer
than 500 feet to any residential district, whether the district is under the
jurisdiction of the county or a municipality having in effect its own zoning
ordinance, 660 feet from a building used and intended to be used for
residential purposes, 200 feet from any property line, and 500 feet from any
potable water well.
      (5)   The open burning of landscape waste shall be prohibited on the
site.
      (6)   All operators of landscape waste composting facilities shall make
semiannual reports upon the total tons of landscape waste accepted and total
tons of landscape waste marketed during the previous six months. This semi-
annual report is due on July 15 and January 15 for the period covering the
previous six months. This report shall be submitted to and shall be in the form
prescribed by the Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 152.092) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 7-13-1995; Ord.
passed 6-20-2024) Penalty, see §
155.999
NON-CONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES
§ 155.110 EXISTING NON-CONFORMING LAND OR BUILDING.
   The lawful use of any land or building existing at the time of the adoption
of this chapter may be continued, even if it does not conform to the
regulations of this chapter, except as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.105) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024)
§ 155.111 NON-CONFORMING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Alterations. A non-conforming building or structure shall not be
reconstructed or altered to an extent exceeding its assessed valuation for real
estate tax purposes, unless the building or structure is changed to conform
with the regulations of this chapter.
   (B)   Enlargement. A non-conforming building or structure shall not be added
to or enlarged in any manner unless the additions or enlargements are made so
as to bring the building or structure into conformity with the regulations of
this chapter.
   (C)   Restoration. A non-conforming building or structure which is damaged
by fire or other cause to the extent of more than 50% of its assessed value
shall not be restored, except in conformity with the regulations of this
chapter.
   (D)   Abandonment. A non-conforming use of a building which has been
discontinued for a period of 30 days shall not be re-established and any future
use shall be in conformity with the regulations of this chapter.
   (E)   Extension. A non-conforming use of a building may be extended
throughout the building; provided, no structural alterations are made therein.
   (F)   Relocation. A non-conforming building shall not be moved to any other
part of the parcel of land upon which it is located unless every portion of the
building is made to conform to all requirements of the district in which it is
located.
   (G)   Use change.
      (1)   If no structural alterations are made, a non-conforming use of the
building may be changed to another non-conforming use of the same or of a more
restricted classification.
      (2)   Whenever a non-conforming use had been changed to a more restricted
use or to a conforming use, the use shall not thereafter be changed to a less
restricted use.
   (H)   Placement. A manufactured or mobile home may be placed; provided that,
the replacement home is moved onto the property and is located on its pad
within five days (120 hours) of the removal of the original home and that the
home being moved onto the property is not more than five years old at the time
of replacement.
(Prior Code, § 152.106) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-11-1992; Ord.
passed 6-20-2024) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.112 NON-CONFORMING USE OF LAND.
   (A)   Expansion. A non-conforming use of land shall not be expanded or
extended beyond the area it occupies.
   (B)   Relocation. A non-conforming use shall not be moved to any other part
of the parcel of land upon which the same was conducted at the time of passage
of this chapter, except by expressed authority of the County Board or its
designated authority.
   (C)   Discontinuance. If a non-conforming use of land is discontinued for a
period of 30 days, it shall not be re-established and any future use shall be
in conformity with the regulations of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.107) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024) Penalty,
see §
155.999
§ 155.113 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Single-family and two-family residences established at the time of
adoption of this chapter in non-residential districts are exempt from this
section.
   (B)   These residences may be expanded and accessory structures may be
permitted; provided, all other requirements are met.
(Prior Code, § 152.108) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.125 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Chairperson of the County Board may appoint an Administrator, but
the appointment shall require the approval of the majority of the members of
the County Board.
   (B)   The specific duties of the Administrator shall include:
      (1)   Providing zoning information upon request;
      (2)   Receiving applications for building and occupancy permits,
reviewing the applications to determine if they comply with ordinance
provisions, and issuing or denying permits;
      (3)   Receiving applications for special use permits, variances,
amendments and appeals, referring the applications to the appropriate public
body, notifying affected property owners of the required public hearings and
publishing notice of the hearings;
      (4)   Conducting inspections;
      (5)   Investigating violations; and
      (6)   Keeping the zoning map and text up to date.
   (C)   The Administrator shall maintain on file the following documents:
      (1)   Copies of variation application papers and variation decisions as
they pertain to special flood hazard areas;
      (2)   Copies of elevation or floodproofing certificates and other
documents necessary to ensure that a project is constructed in compliance with
a variation resolution;
      (3)   Copies of annual reports and other correspondence with the Federal
Emergency Management Agency;
      (4)   All records pertaining to the lowest floor elevation; and
      (5)   Issue all permits for development as defined in this chapter in any
special flood hazard area after all other federal and state permits have been
received by the applicant and presented to the Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 152.120) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 9-14-1989; Ord.
passed 6-20-2024)
§ 155.126 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permits. Hereafter, no building or structure shall be erected,
constructed, reconstructed or structurally altered, nor shall work begin upon
same until the required permit has been issued by the Administrator; except
that, no permit shall be required for the following:
      (1)   Exterior remodeling such as new siding, windows or roofing,
painting, installation of or removal of interior walls, new kitchens, baths and
carpeting, rearrangement of offices, manufacturing lines, warehouse space and
other similar remodeling activities;
      (2)   Exterior construction, reconstruction or alteration of a building
or structure which does not alter the size, shape, dimension or height of the
building or structure;
      (3)   Public utility structures and installations such as sanitary
sewers, laterals, vaults, electric lines, water lines, utility poles, cables,
tiles or other similar distribution components; and
      (4)   Buildings, structures or uses in a public federal, state or local
park; provided that, the uses are located at least 100 feet from any
residential property line, comply with the minimum yard requirements and are a
permitted use in the district which they are to be located.
   (B)   Occupancy permit.
      (1)   Hereafter, no change in the occupancy of land, or any change of use
or occupancy in a new or existing building other than for single-family
dwelling shall be made until an occupancy permit has been issued by the
Administrator. Every permit shall state that the new occupancy complies with
all provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Except that, no occupancy permit will be required for land used or
to be used for agricultural purposes, storm sewers, farm tiles, sanitary
sewers, pipe lines and poles, towers, wires, cables, conduits, vaults, laterals
or any other similar distributing equipment of a public utility as defined in
an act entitled An Act Concerning Public Utilities.
   (C)   Permit fees.
      (1)   Fees for the various permit and zoning applications are non-
refundable and are as follows:
         (a)   Single-family residential uses (including attached, detached
garages, carports, decks and porches):$150;
         (b)   Multiple-family residential uses (including attached/detached
garages, carports, decks and porches):$150;
         (c)   Mobile homes: $35;
         (d)   Residential accessory buildings:
            1.   Fifty dollars, up to 1,000 feet squared;
            2.   One hundred fifty dollars, if over 1,000 feet squared.
         (e)   Commercial or industrial building (includes principal and
accessory buildings and additions to either principal or accessory buildings):
$0.03 per foot squared of gross floor area; $50 minimum; plus review and
inspection fee after 7-1-2011;
         (f)   Special use applications:
            1.   Two hundred dollars if two acres or less;
            2.   Two hundred fifty dollars if greater than two acres, but less
than ten acres;
            3.   Three hundred dollars if greater than ten acres, but less than
26 acres; and
            4.   Twenty-six acres and over $100 plus $10 per acre.
         (g)   Re zoning applications:
            1.   Two hundred dollars if two acres or less;
            2.   Two hundred fifty dollars if 2.01 to ten acres; and
            3.   Three hundred dollars if 10.01 acres or more.
         (h)   Variance applications: $150;
         (i)   Appeal applications: $100;
         (j)   Text amendments: $125;
         (k)   Occupancy permits (for changes in land use other than
agricultural, one-/two-family residence, public utility or government
purposes): $25; and
         (l)   Structures other than buildings: $0.001 x total estimated cost/
min: $25.
      (2)   By state law, no fees are charged for permits for buildings
intended to be used for agricultural purposes or for accessory buildings
located on an operating farm.
      (3)   Make checks payable to: DeWitt County Zoning.
      (4)   Legal notice publication fees are to be paid by the applicant.
   (D)   Exhibits. Each application for a building permit and for an occupancy
permit for the use of land shall be accompanied by the following exhibits
unless waived by the Administrator.
      (1)   Boundary survey of an area including the property in question and
100 feet beyond its outer boundaries showing existing utilities, lot boundaries
and dimensions, buildings and easements, foliage, topography, waterways and
soil boring to be included if pertinent.
      (2)   Plot plan indicating location, size and placement of proposed
structure and yards, parking and loading facilities, vehicular access and
egress and utility plan including surface drainage.
   (E)   Permit application procedure. The procedure for applying for a
building permit and an occupancy permit shall be as follows.
      (1)   The property owner or his or her agent shall meet with the
Administrator to explain his or her situation, learn the procedure and obtain
an application form.
      (2)   The applicant shall file the completed application form together
with required exhibits with the Administrator.
      (3)   The Administrator shall issue a building permit and collect the
required fee if the proposed project complies with the provisions of this
chapter and other relevant county ordinances.
   (F)   Expiration of zoning use permits.
      (1)   At 90 days, the footings and foundation shall be in place and
crawlspace and/or basement shall be covered.
      (2)   At 150 days (an additional 60 days after issuance of permit), the
structure shall be framed, roofed and enclosed with materials intended for
permanent use.
      (3)   If the work described on any zoning use permit shall not have been
completed within 730 consecutive days from issuance thereof, the permit shall
expire and be cancelled by the Administrator, and written notice therefore
shall be given to the applicant together with notice that further work as
described on the cancelled permit shall not proceed until a new permit shall
have been issued.
(Prior Code, § 152.121) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 8-13-1992; Ord.
passed 11-12-1992; Ord. passed 9-11-1997; Ord. passed 7-21-2011; Ord. passed 4-
20-2017; Ord. passed 6-20-2024) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.127 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   Establishment.
      (1)   A Board of Zoning Appeals, hereinbefore and hereafter referred to
by the term “Zoning Board”, is hereby authorized to be established.
      (2)   The Zoning Board shall consist of seven members appointed by the
Chairperson and confirmed by the members of the County Board. The seven members
of the first Zoning Board appointed shall serve terms as follows: one for one
year, one for two years, one for three years, one for four years and three for
five years, the successor to each member so appointed to serve for a term of
five years. Vacancies shall be filled by the Chairperson of the County Board
for the unexpired terms only, subject to confirmation by the County Board. The
County Board shall have the power to remove any member of the Zoning Board for
cause, after a public hearing upon giving ten days notice thereof. At the time
of appointment to the Zoning Board, not more than one of the members shall be a
resident within the limits of any one congressional township. The Chairperson
of the County Board shall name one of the members of the Zoning Board as
Chairperson upon his or her appointment, and in case of vacancy, shall name the
Chairperson.
   (B)   Meetings.
      (1)   Regular meetings of the Zoning Board shall be held at the time and
place within the County as the Zoning Board may determine. Special meetings may
be held at the call of the Chairperson, or as determined by the Board. The
Chairperson or, in his or her absence, the acting Chairperson may administer
oaths and compel attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Zoning Board
shall be open to the public.
      (2)   The Zoning Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the
vote of each member upon every question or, if absent or failing to vote,
indicating the facts and shall also keep records of its examinations and other
official actions. Every rule, regulation, every amendment or appeal thereof,
and every order, requirement, decision or determination of the Zoning Board
shall immediately be filed in the office of the Board and shall be a public
record. Four members of the Zoning Board shall constitute a quorum, and the
concurring vote of four members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any
order, requirement, decision or determination of the Administrator in any
matter upon which it is required to pass under this chapter, or to effect any
variation or modification in this chapter to the County Board. In the
performance of its duties, the Zoning Board may incur expenditures as shall be
authorized by the County Board. The Zoning Board shall adopt its own rules of
procedures not in conflict with the state or this chapter.
      (3)   The Zoning Board shall have a recording secretary at each Zoning
Board meeting, to record the proceedings of the public hearing. The secretary
is to be appointed by the County Board.
   (C)   Jurisdiction.
      (1)   The Zoning Board shall hear and decide appeals from any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by the Administrator. It shall also
hear and decide all matters referred to it or upon which it is required to pass
under this chapter.
      (2)   The Zoning Board may reverse or affirm wholly or partly or may
modify or amend the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from
to the extent and in the manner that the Zoning Board may decide to be fitting
and proper in the premises and, to that end, the Zoning Board shall also have
all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken.
      (3)   When a property owner shows that a strict application of the terms
of this chapter relating to the use, construction or alteration of buildings or
structures, or to the use of land, imposes upon him or her practical
difficulties or particular hardship, then the Zoning Board may in the following
instances only make the variations of the strict application of the terms of
this chapter, as are in harmony with its general purpose and intent when the
Zoning Board is satisfied, under the evidence heard before it, that a granting
of the variation will not merely serve as a convenience to the applicant, but
is necessary to alleviate some demonstrable hardship so great as to warrant a
variance:
         (a)   To permit the reconstruction of a non-conforming building (but
excluding residences and farm buildings) which has been destroyed or damaged to
an extent of more than 50% of its assessed value by fire or act of God, or the
public enemy, where the Zoning Board shall find some compelling public
necessity requiring a continuance of the non-conforming use, but in no case
shall a permit be issued if its primary function is for financial gain.
         (b)   To permit the remodeling or expansion of a non-conforming use
where the Board finds public necessity and convenience in the continuance or
expansion of the non-conforming use and that the remodeling or expansion does
not materially affect the other uses in the neighborhood.
      (4)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to give or grant to the
Zoning Board the power or authority to alter or change this chapter, the power
and authority being reserved to the County Board.
      (5)   The Zoning Board may impose conditions and restrictions upon the
use of the premises benefitted by a variance, as it may deem necessary.
   (D)   Appeals, how taken.
      (1)   Any person aggrieved or any officer, department, board or bureau of
the county may appeal to the Zoning Board to review any order, requirement,
decision or recommendation made by the Administrator. Any notice of appeal
shall be accompanied by the required filling fee as established by the County
Board.
      (2)   The appeal shall be made within 45 days after the date of written
notice of the decision or order to the Administrator and a notice of appeal
specifying the grounds thereof. The Administrator shall forthwith transmit to
the Zoning Board all papers constituting the record upon which the action
appealed from was taken and a public hearing scheduled.
      (3)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the Administrator certifies to the Zoning Board, after
the notice of appeal has been filed with him or her, that by reason of facts
stated in the permit, a stay would in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril
to life or property. In this case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise
than a restraining order which may be granted by the Zoning Board, or by a
court of record on application, on notice to the Administrator, and on due
cause shown.
      (4)   The Zoning Board shall fix a reasonable time for hearing of the
appeal and give due notice thereof to the parties and decide the same within a
reasonable time. Upon hearing, any party may appear in person, by agent or by
attorney.
(Prior Code, § 152.122) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 11-12-1992; Ord.
passed 9-24-2009; Res. 2017-14, passed 11-16-2017; Res. 2018-14, passed 8-23-
2018; Ord. passed 6-20-2024)
§ 155.128 PLANNING COMMISSION DUTIES IN ZONING ADMINISTRATION.
   The duties of the County Regional Planning Commission in zoning
administration shall be:
   (A)   To review applications for amendments to this chapter. The Commission
shall not have the authority to make changes or amendments to this chapter; it
shall act in a purely advisory manner to the County Board and the Zoning Board,
making its recommendations in all cases referred to it, and transmitting them
to the Zoning Board for public hearings; and
   (B)   To review applications for special use permits provided for within
this chapter and to transmit its recommended action to the Zoning Board for
public hearings.
   (C)   The chair and the members of the Regional Planning Commission shall be
compensated per meeting as follows. This rate shall apply to both regular and
special meetings. This rate shall apply to each day of a meeting, regardless of
if a meeting is continued to another day to avoid adjourning. The amounts
stated shall only apply when a quorum is present, and no amount shall be paid
if a quorum is not present.
      (1)   Chairman of Regional Planning Commission: $35 per meeting.
      (2)   Member of Regional Planning Commission: $30 per meeting.
(Prior Code, § 152.123) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Res. 2017-14, passed 11-16-2017;
Res. 2018-14, passed 8-23-2018; Ord. passed 6-20-2024)
§ 155.129 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variations from the provisions of this chapter may be granted by the
Zoning Board where practical difficulties and unusual hardships in complying
with those provisions are determined to exist, but only after a public hearing
has been duly advertised and held by the Board. The Zoning Board may impose the
restrictions and conditions upon the premises benefitted by a variance as it
considers necessary so that the public health, safety and general welfare may
be secured and substantial justice done.
   (B)   Applications for variance shall be accompanied by a plot plan as
required for permit applications, and a certified listing, by complete name
address, of all property owners within 250 feet of the property in question.
   (C)   The procedure for applying for a variance from the regulations of this
chapter is as follows.
      (1)   The property owner or his or her agent shall meet with the
Administrator to explain his or her situation, learn the procedures and obtain
an application form.
      (2)   The applicant shall file the completed application along with the
required exhibits with the Administrator. Any application for a variance shall
be accompanied by the required filing fee as established by the County Board.
      (3)   The Administrator shall transmit the application to the Chairperson
of the Zoning Board and shall determine with the Chairperson the time and place
of the required public hearing.
      (4)   The Administrator may provide courtesy notices to those owners of
property within 250 feet of the property in question.
      (5)   The Administrator shall have notice of the scheduled public
hearings published in a newspaper of general circulation in the county at least
15 days before the hearing in conformity with the state statutes.
      (6)   The Zoning Board shall hold the public hearing within 45 days of
filing and shall take one of three actions - approval, denial or conditional
approval.
   (D)   Standards for granting variances. The Zoning Board may vary the
regulations of this chapter when supporting evidence in each specific case
indicates that:
      (1)   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographic conditions of the specific parcel of land involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of the regulations were to be carried out;
      (2)   The conditions upon which the petition for a variance are based are
unique to the parcel of land for which the variance is sought and not
applicable generally to other property with the same zoning classification;
      (3)   The purpose of the variance is not based exclusively upon a desire
to increase the value or income potential of the parcel of land;
      (4)   The alleged difficulty or hardship is caused by the provisions of
this chapter and has not been created by any person presently or formerly
having an interest in the parcel of land;
      (5)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to other land or improvements in the vicinity in which the
parcel of land is located;
      (6)   The proposed variance will not impair an adequate supply of light
and air to adjacent property, or substantially increase the congestion of the
public streets, increase the danger of fire or endanger the public safety or
substantially diminish or impair property values within the vicinity; and/or
      (7)   Decisions of the Zoning Board may be appealed to the County Board
for a final decision by any interested party. The appeal must be filed in
writing to the County Clerk within ten days following the Zoning Board
decision.
   (E)   Flood variances. In addition, no variation to the special flood hazard
area regulations contained in this chapter shall be granted by the Zoning
Board, or by the County Board if appealed, unless the applicant conclusively
demonstrates that:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the special
flood hazard area;
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variation were not
granted;
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health or safety or
creation of a nuisance;
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing or repairs to roads, utilities or other
public facilities;
      (6)   Any and all other local, state and federal permits that may be
required for this type of development activity have been obtained;
      (7)   The Administrator has reviewed the plans and states, in writing,
that the project is in conformance with the “General Provisions” and “Criteria
for Land Management and Use” of the National Flood Insurance Program (44 C.F.R.
parts 59 and 60, as published by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, 5-31-
1979); and
      (8)   The applicant shall be notified that the granting of a variance for
construction and/or development in the special flood hazard area will result in
an increase in the flood insurance rates according to the risk as assigned.
(Prior Code, § 152.124) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-12-1986; Ord.
passed 9-14-1989; Ord. passed 11-12-1992; Ord. passed 6-20-2024)
§ 155.130 SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Before a building or premises is devoted to any use classified
hereunder, a special permit must be granted by the County Board following
recommendation by the Planning Commission and a public hearing before the
Zoning Board.
   (B)   The following exhibits shall be required unless waived by the Planning
Commission:
      (1)   The boundary survey and plot plan as required for building permit
application; and
      (2)   Certified listing, by complete name and address, of all owners of
property within 250 feet of the property in question.
   (C)   The procedure for obtaining a special use permit is as follows.
      (1)   In applying for a special use permit, the applicant shall follow
all applicable procedures set forth in this subchapter.
      (2)   The applicant shall file the completed application along with the
required exhibits with the Administrator. Any application for a special use
shall be accompanied by the required filing fee as established by the County
Board.
      (3)   The Administrator shall refer the application to the Regional
Planning Commission.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall, after careful review of the
application, make a recommendation on each application to the Zoning Board.
      (5)   The Administrator shall cause notice of a public hearing in
accordance with state statutes and may provide courtesy notice to those owners
of property within 250 feet of the property in question.
      (6)   The Zoning Board, after holding a public hearing in accordance with
state statutes, shall make a recommendation independent of that submitted by
the Planning Commission within 30 days of the concluded public hearing,
forwarding the recommendation directly to the County Board.
      (7)   The County Board may approve, deny or give conditional approval to
the application. In cases of approval or conditional approval, the County Board
shall issue written authorization to the Administrator to issue a zoning permit
in full conformance with this subchapter. This authorization shall remain on
permanent file with the application.
      (8)   The County Board may attach special conditions, including specified
period of time for the permit, to ensure conformance with the intent of all
comprehensive plan elements and to preserve the integrity of the zoning
district in question.
   (D)   A special use permit may be granted by the County Board after
demonstration by evidence that:
      (1)   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the special use will
not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals, comfort or
general welfare;
      (2)   The special use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of
other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already permitted,
nor substantially diminish and impair property values within the neighborhood;
      (3)   The establishment of the special use will not impede the normal and
orderly development and improvement of surrounding property for uses permitted
in the district;
      (4)   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and necessary facilities
have been or will be provided;
      (5)   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress or
egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets or
roads; and
      (6)   The special use shall, in all other respects, conform to the
applicable regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (E)   Where a special use permit has been issued pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter, the permit may become null and void by action of the County
Board upon recommendation of the Planning Commission unless work thereon
commences within one year of the date of granting the special use. A special
use permit shall be deemed to authorize only one particular use and may be
canceled by the County Board upon recommendation of the Planning Commission if
that use ceases for more than 12 consecutive months.
(Prior Code, § 152.125) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-12-1986; Ord.
passed 11-12-1992; Ord. passed 3-24-2022; Ord. passed 6-20-2024)
§ 155.131 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Authority. The County Board may from time to time amend, supplement or
change by ordinance the boundaries of districts, or regulations herein
established.
   (B)   Kinds of amendments.
      (1)   An amendment to this chapter may be one of the following:
         (a)   A change in a district’s boundary (re-zoning);
         (b)   A change in a district’s regulations; and
         (c)   A change in any other provision of this chapter.
   (C)   Initiation of proceedings. Proceedings for amending this chapter shall
be initiated by at least one of the following three methods:
      (1)   By application of an owner or owners of property which is proposed
to be rezoned, or for which zoning district rule and regulation changes are
proposed. Any application for a rezoning or for a text amendment shall be
accompanied by the required filing fee as established by the County Board;
      (2)   By recommendations of the Planning Commission; and/or
      (3)   By action of the County Board.
   (D)   Exhibits. Required exhibits for rezoning or district regulation
changes initiated by property owners:
      (1)   The boundary survey and plot plan as required for building permit
application; and
      (2)   A certified listing, by complete name and address, of all property
owners within 250 feet of the property in question.
   (E)   Procedures.
      (1)   Upon any application for a proposed amendment, supplement or change
being properly filed with the Administrator, the Administrator shall
immediately cause a copy of same to be forwarded to the members of the Planning
Commission and the members of the Zoning Board.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall make an investigation as provided by
its rules of procedure. The Planning Commission shall consider the proposed
amendments of its next regularly scheduled monthly meeting; provided that, if
14 days have not elapsed since the above mailing of the proposed amendment, it
may defer action on it until their next regular monthly meeting. In determining
the 14-day period, the day the letter is mailed shall be excluded, and the day
of the meeting shall be included.
      (3)   The recommendation and report stating reasons for the decision of
the Planning Commission shall be forwarded to the Chairperson of the Zoning
Board and to the Chairperson of the County Board without delay.
      (4)   The report of the Planning Commission may be considered by the
Zoning Board in arriving at its decision, whether or not a member of the
Planning Commission appears at the public hearing.
      (5)   The Zoning Board shall forward its report and decision, setting
forth the reasons therefor, to the Chairperson of the County Board within a
reasonable time after the public hearing.
   (F)   Notice of public hearing for amendments.
      (1)   The Zoning Board shall cause notice of a public hearing to be duly
published, as prescribed by state statute.
      (2)   Hearings on text amendments shall be held in the courthouse of the
county. Hearings on map amendments shall be held in the courthouse of the
county; provided that, if the owner of any property affected by the proposed
map amendment so requests, in writing, the hearing shall be held in the
township or road district in which the affected property is located.
      (3)   The published notice of a hearing affecting a particular township
or townships shall be published in a newspaper qualified to accept legal
notices, in general circulation in the area affected.
      (4)   In addition, where a proposed amendment affects a particular area
of the county, notice shall be mailed to all municipalities within one and one-
half miles thereof, and the Administrator may provide courtesy notices to all
owners of property within 250 feet of the property in question.
   (G)   Passage of amendments.
      (1)   Text and map amendments may be passed at a County Board meeting by
a simple majority of the elected County Board members; except that, in the
following instances, no amendment shall be approved, except by the favorable
vote of three-fourths of all members of the County Board:
         (a)   Written protests against a proposed text amendment are signed by
at least 5% of the land owners of the county;
         (b)   Where land affected lies within one and one-half miles of the
corporate limits of a zoned municipality, and a written resolution by the
corporate authorities of the zoned municipality is filed protesting any
amendment; and
         (c)   Written protests against any proposed map amendment, signed by
the owner or owners of 20% of the land to be rezoned, or signed by the owner or
owners of land immediately touching, or immediately across a street, alley or
public right-of-way from at least 20% of the perimeter of the land to be
rezoned.
      (2)   In all instances involving protest of a proposed amendment, the
protests shall be in writing and shall be filed with the County Clerk not less
than five days before final action on the proposed amendment is scheduled to be
taken. Additionally, a copy of the written protest shall be served by the
protestors on the application for the proposed amendment and a copy upon the
applicant’s attorney, if any, by certified mail at the address of the applicant
and attorney not less than five days before final action is scheduled to be
taken.
(Prior Code, § 152.126) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-12-1986; Ord.
passed 7-12-1990; Ord. passed 6-20-2024)
§ 155.132 FEES.
   All fees are subject to revision by action of the County Board.
(Prior Code, § 152.127) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024)
Cross-reference:
   Permits required; fees, see §
155.126
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with any of the provisions
of this chapter shall be subject, upon conviction thereof, to a fine of not
more than $200, or imprisonment of not more than six months for each offense.
Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 152.999) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 6-20-2024)
CHAPTER 156: POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITIES
Section
Site Approval Application
   
156.01   Definitions
   
156.02   Filing of application
   
156.03   Filing fee
   
156.04   Technical siting criteria
Administration
   
156.20   Waiver
   
156.21   Public comment
   
156.22   Staff review
   
156.23   Record of hearing
   
156.24   Pollution Control Site Hearing Committee; public hearing
   
156.25   Site approval decision
   
156.26   Administration of fees and costs
   
156.27   Appeal procedure
SITE APPROVAL APPLICATION
§ 156.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The terms used in this chapter shall have the same meanings as the same
terms are defined in the State Environmental Protection Act, being ILCS Ch.
415, Act 5, in effect as of the date hereof and as the Act may be amended or
modified from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 153.01) (Res. passed 3-16-1989)
§ 156.02 FILING OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   A minimum of 20 complete copies of requests for site approval,
including 20 copies of all site plans, exhibits and maps, shall be filed in the
office of the County Clerk by the applicant. Upon receipt of any request, the
County Clerk shall retain one copy of all documents, and deliver one copy to
each of the following:
      (1)   Chairperson of the County Board;
      (2)   Administrator, County Department of Planning and Zoning;
      (3)   Chairperson, County Regional Planning Commission;
      (4)   Director of Environmental Health, County Health Department;
      (5)   Engineer, County Highway Department;
      (6)   State’s Attorney;
      (7)   Township Supervisors of the particular townships in which the
facility is proposed to be located;
      (8)   District Conservationist, County Soil and Water Conservation
District; and
      (9)   Director, County Emergency Management Agency.
   (B)   The applicant shall also file additional complete copies of requests
for site approval, including site plans, exhibits and maps for any municipality
within one and one-half miles of the site location with the County Clerk. Upon
receipt, the County Clerk shall deliver them to the municipality or
municipalities.
   (C)   Any applicant requesting site location approval for any pollution
control facility within the county should sign a host community agreement
negotiated with the county prior to submitting a siting application pursuant to
§ 39.2 of the State Environmental Protection Act, being ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5.
The host community agreement should be in accordance with provisions contained
within the county’s solid waste management plan adopted by the county pursuant
to the Solid Waste Planning and Recycling Act.
(Prior Code, § 153.02) (Res. passed 3-16-1989; Res. passed 2-12-1998; Res.
passed 10-14-1999)
§ 156.03 FILING FEE.
   (A)   There shall be paid to the County Clerk for delivery to the County
Treasurer for deposit in a special fund at the time of the filing of an
application for site approval a fee of $100,000. If the applicant amends its
application in accordance with § 39.2(e) of the State Environmental Protection
Act, being ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, an additional filing fee of $10,000 shall be
paid to the County Clerk at the time of the filing of the amended application.
   (B)   The fee paid hereunder with any application shall be used only to
defray the costs incurred by the county in connection with the application for
site approval to which the fee is applicable. The County Board may use the fee
to pay any costs incurred by the persons to evaluate the information contained
in the application, to pay costs involved in any hearing, including the fees of
court reports and expert witnesses employed by the county to clarify or refute
any information contained in the application, to pay any costs incurred in the
appeal of any decision of the County Board as to the application and to any
other costs or expense in any way connected with the application.
   (C)   The County Clerk shall accept no application for filing unless the fee
has been paid.
   (D)   If the costs to the county are less than the amount paid by the
applicant, the excess shall be refunded to the applicant. Should there be any
additional costs incurred by the county over the amount paid by the applicant,
the applicant shall bear any and all additional costs.
(Prior Code, § 153.03) (Res. passed 3-16-1989; Res. passed 12-12-1991; Res.
passed 12-17-1998; Res. passed 10-14-1999)
§ 156.04 TECHNICAL SITING CRITERIA.
   (A)   The applicant shall submit the information requested hereafter as part
of the application. Terms used in this chapter and defined in the State
Environmental Protection Act (ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, §§ 1 et seq.) and/or the
state’s solid waste regulations (35 I.A.C. part 810) shall have the same
definitions and meanings found in the Act or regulations.
   (B)   The format of this part of the application shall be as follows.
      (1)   This part of the application shall be divided into nine sections
corresponding to the nine siting criteria in § 39.2 of the Act. These nine
sections shall be clearly marked with dividers or other suitable means. The
application shall also include appropriate design drawings, including a full
size set of drawings and a reduced set of drawings no larger than 11 inches by
17 inches.
      (2)   A tenth section shall be included that provides documentation
concerning the previous operating experience and past record of convictions or
admissions of violations of the applicant (and any subsidiary or parent
corporation of the applicant) in the field of solid waste management.
   (C)   Sections.
      (1)   Section One. The application shall contain sufficient detail to
demonstrate that the proposed facility is necessary to accommodate the waste
needs of the area it is intended to serve. Section One shall include, but is
not limited to, the following:
         (a)   A definition of the intended service area for the proposed
facility including a map of the service area boundaries;
         (b)   A calculation of the current amount of waste generated and
disposed within the service area and an estimate of the amount of waste to be
generated and disposed within the service area for the next 20 years;
         (c)   A calculation of the current amount of waste exported out of and
imported into the service area;
         (d)   A calculation of the capacity of the proposed facility, the
estimated daily volume of waste to be received, and the estimated duration of
operation at the proposed facility, in years;
         (e)   A description of the type(s) of waste to be received;
         (f)   A calculation of the permitted capacity available within the
service area; and
         (g)   A discussion of the sources and reliability of information
contained in this section.
      (2)   Section Two. The applicant shall provide sufficient detail to
demonstrate that the proposed facility is so designed, located and proposed to
be operated that the public health, safety and welfare will be protected. At a
minimum this section of the application shall contain the following information
in an order that logically addresses all concerns within this section. Section
Two shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   A site location map(s) of the facility on a United States
Geological Survey (USGS) seven and one-half minute series (topographic)
quadrangle map, or similar type regional topographical map. The site location
map(s) should clearly show the facility boundary and a minimum two-mile radius,
at a scale no smaller than one inch equals 2,000 feet. If the application is
for a landfill facility, then the site location map(s) shall graphically show
at a minimum the following information contained within the two-mile radius of
the facility:
            1.   Any aircraft runways;
            2.   The 100-year floodplain limits based on the most recent FEMA
map or floodplain elevation as determined by FEMA or other appropriate state
authority;
            3.   The nearest water supply well setback zone defined by §§ 14.2
and 14.3 of the Act, being ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5; and
            4.   The nearest occupied dwelling, school or hospital.
         (b)   A topographic map(s) of the proposed facility and adjacent areas
(minimum 50 feet around the facility unless documentation is provided detailing
all adjacent land uses). The topographic map(s) should contain a topographic
map of the site at a scale no smaller than one inch equals 200 feet, with a
minimum two-foot contour interval, except in areas with steep topography
(steeper than two horizontal to one vertical) or that is otherwise obscured
from aerial photography and will not significantly impact the design or review
of the application. The topographic map should clearly identify the data of the
topographic map and the facility boundary. The topographic map at a minimum
should also include the following:
            1.   Existing utilities;
            2.   Existing tree lines;
            3.   Standing water limits;
            4.   Existing fences;
            5.   Existing buildings;
            6.   Existing roads, entrances and driveways; and
            7.   Existing structures.
         (c)   A legal description and plat of survey for the facility
boundary. If the facility is a landfill then the application should also
provide a legal description and plat of survey for the waste boundary. The
legal descriptions shall be prepared and certified by a state registered land
surveyor;
         (d)   Documentation verifying that the proposed site is not in
violation of any applicable location standard or restriction specified by all
applicable federal, state and local regulations and guidelines;
         (e)   A summary of the climatological data available for the area. The
data shall include monthly information (high, low and averages) for
precipitation, temperature and wind;
         (f)   A narrative summary including drawings and figures of the
regional hydrogeologic conditions for the area. If the application is for a
landfill facility, then the regional hydrogeologic investigation shall include
the following information at a minimum:
            1.   The regional hydrogeologic investigation should be established
by reviewing statewide and regional reports and maps available from the United
States Geological Survey (USGS), the State Geological Survey (ISGS), the State
Water Survey (ISWS), the State Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA) and other
available sources;
            2.   The available water well logs obtained from the ISGS, ISWS and
county along with the likely existence of additional water supply wells based
on field surveys within two miles of the facility shall be provided along with
a location map and summary table of the known locations, installation dates and
elevations of the water wells;
            3.   A discussion of the regional sources of ground water typically
used in the area including a general characterization of the ground water
quality based on regional publications;
            4.   Additional information such as boring logs, monitoring well
as-built diagrams, and hydrogeologic data collected for other facilities in the
area can also be used to summarize the regional hydrogeologic characterization;
            5.   A summary of the regional bedrock stratigraphy including the
approximate name, age, type, depths and thicknesses of the bedrock units based
on regional publications. The applicant should also describe any regional
structural features near the site;
            6.   A summary of the seismic conditions and location of any known
unstable areas; and
            7.   A summary of the unconsolidated deposits near the site
including a general description of the individual formations and general
characteristics, including material, type, thickness and lateral extent.
         (g)   If the application is for a landfill then an initial site-
specific investigation should be performed to characterize the general geologic
and hydrogeologic character of the site in relation to regional publications.
At a minimum, the initial site-specific investigation shall include:
            1.   A complete copy of all available field borings performed at
the site. All new investigation borings shall be continuously sampled by a
geologist or engineer with experience in soil classification;
            2.   The site investigation should place a minimum of one boring
near the center of the site and near each of the corners of the site. Where the
site is irregularly shaped, the borings shall be located near the boundary in a
pattern and spacing necessary to obtain data over the entire study area. The
borings should be deep enough to characterize the uppermost aquifer at the
site;
            3.   Monitoring wells and/or piezometers shall be located to
sufficiently identify the hydrogeologic conditions at the site based on the
regional investigation and field observations. All monitoring wells and
piezometers shall be properly sealed, labeled and locked. Well and piezometer
construction documentation shall be provided to the County Health Department or
appropriate agencies;
            4.   Any boring or well not to be used at the site shall be
properly abandoned with a copy of the well abandonment forms submitted to the
County Health Department or appropriate agencies; and
            5.   Other methods may be utilized to confirm or accumulate
additional information. The methods may be used only as a supplement to, not in
lieu of site-specific boring information. Other methods may include, but are
not limited to, geophysical well logs, geophysical surveys, aerial photography,
age dating and test pits.
         (h)   If the application is for a landfill then the application shall
provide a report summarizing the site-specific information. This report shall
also include at a minimum the following information:
            1.   A narrative description of all drilling and field procedures;
            2.   Location of all borings, monitoring wells and piezometers at
the site;
            3.   All boring logs and as-built diagrams for all monitoring wells
and piezometers, along with all construction documentation and abandonment
forms;
            4.   Laboratory and/or field testing data, including, but not
necessarily limited to, strength, moisture content, grain size analysis,
Atterberg limits and hydraulic conductivity;
            5.   A narrative description of each geologic unit encountered
within the study area;
            6.   A narrative description characterizing the hydrogeological
conditions within the project site;
            7.   Drawings identifying the elevation of the top of the uppermost
aquifer and other pertinent geologic units;
            8.   Drawings showing the thickness of all pertinent geologic
units;
            9.   A description of all water-bearing strata and ground water
conditions, including potentiometric map(s), ground water flow velocities and
directions, and identification of the uppermost aquifer. Seasonal variations
should be discussed in the application based on regional information and field
observations when seasonal ground water data is not available; and
            10.   Geological cross-sections of the project site showing all
water-bearing strata, water elevations, and all geologic units encountered
during the investigation.
         (i)   A design report describes the physical attributes of the
proposed facility. The report shall contain narratives, calculations, drawings,
figures and other material necessary to provide an accurate depiction of the
facility;
         (j)   A site plan map with a scale no smaller than one inch equals 200
feet that shows the location of all pertinent design components at the
facility;
         (k)   If the application is for a landfill facility, then design
drawings necessary to adequately describe the components and systems of the
facility during construction, operation and closure shall be provided. At a
minimum, the following information should be provided with the drawings:
            1.   All entrance locations and facility access restrictions;
            2.   The ancillary facility locations (scale, scalehouse, office
building, maintenance area, parking areas and the like);
            3.   The proposed mass excavation grades (or bottom of landfill)
for general construction purposes;
            4.   The conceptual phasing of construction;
            5.   The location of the leachate collection system and collection
points;
            6.   The final grading plan;
            7.   The typical liner system detail;
            8.   The typical final cover system detail; and
            9.   Typical cross-sections of the landfill.
         (l)   If the application is for a landfill facility, then a narrative
description shall be provided which describes the following design components
at a minimum:
            1.   Liner system requirements;
            2.   Leachate collection system and management plan for storage and
disposal;
            3.   Final cover system; and
            4.   Landfill gas monitoring system and conceptual management
system.
         (m)   Storm water management system to characterize the existing storm
water flow conditions and how development of the facility will alter and
protect storm water flows. If the application is for a landfill facility then
calculations including, but not limited necessarily to, the following shall be
provided:
            1.   Estimated runoff from disturbed areas resulting from the 25-
year, 24-hour precipitation event which will be discharged to waters of the
state;
            2.   Estimated runoff from the completed, closed facility resulting
from the 25-year, 24-hour precipitation event which will be discharged to
waters of the state; and
            3.   The general locations and capacities of all ditches, detention
basins and all other necessary storm water control structures.
         (n)   Sediment and erosion control structures used during construction
and operations of the facility shall be described in the application;
         (o)   A construction quality assurance plan that ensures the facility
will be constructed in accordance with its permitted developmental plans. This
plan shall define the duties of a construction quality assurance officer,
describe all sampling and testing procedures and define acceptance criteria;
         (p)   An operating plan that describes the operations at the facility
during all phases of operation at the proposed site. This plan shall include,
but not be limited to, personnel requirements, personnel training, equipment
requirements, construction phasing, waste handling, monitoring requirements,
hours of operation, equipment operation, storm water control, odor control,
dust control, litter control, noise control, vector control, systems
maintenance and equipment maintenance;
         (q)   Any routine monitoring to be performed at the facility shall be
identified and described. If the application is for a landfill facility, then a
preliminary ground water monitoring plan shall be developed to identify the
location and phasing of the ground water monitoring program. The procedures to
install, develop, sample and analyze the ground water monitoring wells shall be
specified; and
         (r)   A closure/post-closure care plan narrative that describes the
plans that will be developed to close the proposed facility and provide post-
closure care. The applicant shall also provide sufficient information proving
that financial assurance is available for the proposed facility.
      (3)   Section Three. The application shall contain sufficient detail to
demonstrate that the proposed facility is located so as to minimize
incompatibility with the character of the surrounding area and to minimize the
effect on the value of the surrounding property. The applicant shall divide
this section of the application into two subsections: land use subsection and
property value subsection.
         (a)   Land use subsection. A land use assessment study shall be
performed by a qualified individual who will consider the proposed facility and
its compatibility with the surrounding land uses. The subsection shall include
the qualifications of the individual and company that completed the study. The
study shall include, but not be limited to:
            1.   An exhibit showing the land uses within a two-mile radius of
the proposed facility;
            2.   Typical photographic views of the proposed site within a
reasonable distance from the proposed facility;
            3.   A description of the landscape plan to be implemented at the
proposed facility to minimize incompatibility with the surrounding area during
the operating life of the facility;
            4.   A description of the proposed use of the site after the
facility is closed; and
            5.   A description of the history of the development of the site
and the surrounding area and the proposed facility’s impact on those trends.
         (b)   Property value subsection. A property value impact study shall
be performed by a qualified individual to determine the effects on property
values in the surrounding areas. The subsection shall include the
qualifications of the individual and company that completed the study. The
study shall include, but not be limited to:
            1.   Information regarding the existing property values within a
distance sufficient to draw conclusions, as determined by the study. The
information should be based upon a survey of property values based on
transactions occurring within the past five years. Where transaction data is
unavailable, tax assessments shall be used; provided, they are adjusted to
account for local differences between market values and assessed values;
            2.   An analysis of the proposed facility’s impact on property
values within the distance(s) identified above; and
            3.   A description and analysis of factors relating to the proposed
site that may impact property values in the area along with a description of
the design features and operating procedures that will be used to minimize the
impact on property values.
      (4)   Section Four. The application shall contain sufficient detail to
demonstrate that for a facility other than a sanitary landfill or waste
disposal site, the facility is located outside the boundary of the 100-year
floodplain, or the site is floodproofed; for a facility that is a sanitary
landfill or waste disposal site, the facility is located outside the boundary
of the 100-year floodplain, or if the facility is a facility described in
subsection (b) of § 22.19a of the State Environmental Protection Act (ILCS Ch.
415, Act 5, § 22.19a), the site is floodproofed. Section Four shall include,
but is not limited to, the following:
         (a)   A map showing the proximity of the 100-year floodplain limits to
the proposed facility, based on the most recent Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) map or floodplain elevation as determined by FEMA or other
appropriate state authority; and
         (b)   For a facility other than a landfill or waste disposal site or a
facility described in subsection (b) of § 22.19a of the State Environmental
Protection Act, being ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, if the site is located in the 100-
year floodplain, design drawings and calculations prepared by a professional
engineer registered in the state shall be required as evidence that the site is
floodproofed.
      (5)   Section Five. The application shall contain sufficient detail to
demonstrate that the proposed plan of operations for the facility is designed
to minimize the danger to the surrounding area from fire, spills or other
accidents. Section Five shall include, but is not limited to, the following:
         (a)   A fire protection plan that includes, but is not limited to,
maintaining a supply of water on-site, fire protection training, fire
extinguisher locations and radio or telephone access to the nearest fire
department;
         (b)   A load checking program for detecting and discouraging the
disposal of hazardous waste in non-hazardous waste facilities; and
         (c)   An Accident Prevention Plan designed to prevent spills and other
accidents that may occur on the site. The Plan shall include, but is not
limited to, providing emergency response instructions, spill prevention and
clean-up methods and worker safety instructional plans.
      (6)   Section Six. The application shall contain sufficient detail to
demonstrate that the proposed traffic patterns to or from the facility are so
designed as to minimize the impact on existing traffic flows. Section Six shall
include, but is not limited to, the following:
         (a)   A traffic impact study performed by an experienced traffic
engineer who is registered as a professional engineer in the state; and
         (b)   The study shall include, but is not limited to:
            1.   A statement of the qualifications of the individual and
company that completed the study;
            2.   A map or table indicating the roads and highways that will be
utilized in proximity to the proposed facility, along with their respective
classifications;
            3.   Recent volume counts taken for the roads and highways
indicated in division (C)(6)(b)2. above;
            4.   A discussion of known accidents within the past three years
that may indicate problem intersections or roads in proximity to the proposed
facility;
            5.   A calculation of average and peak traffic flows that will be
generated by the proposed site; and
            6.   A map showing the location of ingress and egress to the
proposed site. The map shall also indicate the queuing area for vehicles.
      (7)   Section Seven. The application shall contain sufficient detail to
demonstrate that if the proposed facility will be treating, storing or
disposing of hazardous waste, an emergency response plan exists for the
facility which includes notification, containment and evacuation procedures to
be used in case of an accidental release. Section Seven shall include, but is
not limited to, the following:
         (a)   For a non-hazardous waste facility, certification that hazardous
waste will not be treated, stored or disposed on site; or
         (b)   An emergency response plan for the site which shall include, but
not be limited to:
            1.   Provision for the notification of appropriate agencies and
personnel in the event of a release or substantial threat of a release;
            2.   Containment and removal procedures; and
            3.   Evacuation procedures for the facility and the surrounding
area.
      (8)   Section Eight. The application shall contain sufficient detail to
demonstrate that the proposed facility is consistent with the solid waste
management plan and any amendments adopted by the County Board under the Local
Solid Waste Disposal Act (ILCS Ch. 415, Act 10, §§ 1 et seq.) or the Solid
Waste Planning and Recycling Act (ILCS Ch. 415, Act 15, §§ 1 et seq.). Section
Eight shall include, but is not limited to, the following: evidence from the
solid waste management plan, as amended, that the facility is consistent with
that plan.
      (9)   Section Nine. The application shall contain sufficient detail to
demonstrate that if the proposed facility will be located within a regulated
recharge area, all applicable requirements specified by the State Pollution
Control Board for the areas have been met. Section Nine shall include, but is
not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Evidence and documentation that the facility will not be located
in a regulated recharge area; or
         (b)   Evidence and documentation that any requirements specified by
the State Pollution Control Board have been met.
      (10)   Section Ten. The County Board may also consider as evidence the
previous operating experience and past record of convictions or admissions of
violations of the applicant (and any subsidiary or parent corporation) in the
field of solid waste management when considering criteria (ii) and (v) under §
39.2 of the State Environmental Protection Act, being ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5.
Section Ten shall include, but is not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The name, address and phone number of the applicant, and the
name, address and phone number of the operator, if different from the
applicant;
         (b)   If the applicant is a corporation, a copy of the articles of
incorporation, or if the applicant is a sole proprietorship or partnership,
names, addresses and phone numbers of all individuals holding an interest;
         (c)   A copy of all insurance policies the applicant and operator
carry or will carry for the proposed facility, or a discussion of the types and
limits of insurance that is anticipated to be obtained for the proposed
facility;
         (d)   A listing of solid waste management facilities owned and/or
operated by the applicant (and any subsidiary or parent corporation);
         (e)   Documentation regarding the previous operating experience and
past record of convictions or admissions of violations of the applicant (and
any subsidiary or parent corporation) in the field of solid waste management
for facilities located in the state during the past five years;
         (f)   A clear listing of the following information:
            1.   All convictions or admissions of violations, either criminal
or civil, of any foreign, federal, state or local environmental regulation or
statute of:
               a.   The applicant;
               b.   Any subsidiary corporation of the applicant; and
               c.   Any parent corporation of the applicant in the field of
solid waste management for facilities located in the state during the past five
years.
            2.   A description of solid waste management program operated at
the facility which involved the conviction(s) or admission(s) of violation(s);
            3.   Enforcement action, if any, taken by the government entity
involved; and
            4.   Remedial action taken at site, if any, including cost thereof.
         (g)   Information as to whether the applicant or operator has ever
closed a pollution control facility voluntarily or involuntarily, and the
location of the facility and the date on which the process of closing started
and the date on which it was completed.
   (D)   Additional information. Additional information may be included as an
appendix to the application if the applicant feels this information is helpful
and/or necessary.
   (E)   Signatures. Signatures, affirming that the information contained in
the application is true and complete, shall be included in the application for
the following individuals: a duly authorized representative of the applicant,
the proposed operator (if different than the applicant), and all the technical
and non-technical individuals who supplied data contained in the application.
All individuals licensed in their profession (e.g., engineers, land surveyors,
geologists) shall include their license or professional registration number.
(Prior Code, § 153.04) (Res. passed 3-16-1989; Res. passed 10-14-1999)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 156.20 WAIVER.
   The County Board may waive any of the application requirements as set forth
in §§
156.01 through
156.04 upon good cause shown as long as the waiver is not inconsistent with
state or federal law.
(Prior Code, § 153.20) (Res. passed 3-16-1989; Res. passed 10-14-1999)
§ 156.21 PUBLIC COMMENT.
   (A)   A copy of the request shall be made available for public inspection in
the offices of the County Clerk and the County Department of Planning and
Zoning, and members of the public shall be allowed to obtain a copy of the
request or any part thereof upon payment of actual cost of reproduction to the
County Clerk or County Department of Planning and Zoning. All copying requests
shall be fulfilled by the Clerk or the Department in accordance with the
Freedom of Information Act.
   (B)   The County Clerk shall receive written comment from any person
concerning the appropriateness of the proposed site. Upon receipt of any
written comment, the Clerk shall date stamp same and file the written comment
with the postmarked envelope in which the comment was received.
   (C)   Copies of the written comments shall be made available for public
inspection in the offices of
the Clerk, and members of the public shall be allowed to obtain a copy of any
written comment upon payment of actual cost of reproduction.
   (D)   (1)   Any written comment received by the County Clerk or postmarked
not later than 30 days after the date of the last public hearing shall be made
part of the record of the public hearing as hereinafter described and the
County Board shall consider any timely written comments in making its final
determination.
      (2)   In the event that the thirtieth day falls on a Saturday, Sunday, a
federal or county holiday, the next day on which mail is received by the Clerk
shall be considered the thirtieth day for purposes of this section.
(Prior Code, § 153.21) (Res. passed 3-16-1989)
§ 156.22 STAFF REVIEW.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a copy of a request for site location approval, the
Administrator of the Department of Planning and Zoning shall be responsible for
coordinating the review of the request with the following:
      (1)   Municipalities within one and one-half miles of the proposed site;
      (2)   County Regional Planning Commission;
      (3)   County Engineer;
      (4)   County E.M.A. Director;
      (5)   County State’s Attorney;
      (6)   County Health Department Director of Environmental Health; and
      (7)   County Soil and Water Conservation District Conservationist.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Department is authorized to call inter-
departmental meetings and set deadlines for the submittal of reports and
recommendations.
   (C)   A representative of the aforenamed departments/officials shall attend
the public hearings and may ask the questions as are needed to assist it in
reaching their recommendations.
   (D)   The Administrator of the Department of Planning and Zoning may retain
engineering, planning and legal consultants on behalf of the county. All
consultants hired by the county and all county staff involved in the
application review process, excluding the State’s Attorney and/or his or her
designee(s), shall conduct their review of the application independent from the
County Pollution Control Site Hearing Committee and the County Board. In
addition, all county staff, excluding the State’s Attorney and/or his or her
designee(s), and consultants shall be prohibited from participating with the
Pollution Control Site Hearing Committee members or the County Board members
during their deliberations on the application. The consultant and the afore
named department/officials shall commence a study of the application. The
applicant shall cooperate fully with the consultants and the staff of the
county in their review of the application, including providing access to the
site for study or testing, including, but not limited to, geophysical testing.
The Administrator of the Department of Planning and Zoning, in conjunction with
the aforenamed departments/official and consultants, may, but is not required
to, prepare and submit a report and recommendation in connection with the
application prior to the first public hearing. Any report, studies or exhibits
prepared concerning the application prior to the first public hearing shall be
filed with the County Clerk no later than ten days in advance of the first
public hearings. Copies of any documents filed by the consultants and
department/officials shall be available for public inspection in the office of
the County Clerk and members of the public shall be allowed to obtain a copy of
the documents upon payment of the actual costs of reproduction.
   (E)   The Administrator of the Department of Planning and Zoning in
conjunction with the aforenamed department/officials and consultants, may, but
is not required to, prepare and submit a final report to the County Pollution
Control Site Hearing Committee. The final report shall summarize the public
hearing process and the comments received during the 30-day public comment
period. In addition, the final report may provide specific recommendations to
the Committee concerning whether the applicant has satisfied the relevant
siting criteria and any special conditions the staff and consultants feel are
appropriate. If a final report is prepared, it shall be filed with the County
Clerk at least three days prior to the meeting date at which the County
Pollution Control Site Hearing Committee renders a final recommendation to the
County Board on whether to approve or deny the request for siting approval.
Copies of any documents filed by the consultants and departments/officials
shall be available for public inspection in the office of the County Clerk and
members of the public shall be allowed to obtain a copy of the documents upon
payment of the actual cost of reproduction.
(Prior Code, § 153.22) (Res. passed 3-16-1989; Res. passed 10-14-1999)
§ 156.23 RECORD OF HEARING.
   (A)   The County Clerk or his or her designee shall be responsible for
keeping the record of the hearing.
   (B)   The record shall consist of the following:
      (1)   The request for site location approval as described in §§
156.02 through
156.04;
      (2)   Proof of notice as described in §
156.24(D)(3);
      (3)   Proof of notice given by the applicant pursuant to § 39.2(b) of the
Act (ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 39.2(b));
      (4)   Written comments filed by the public and received by the County
Clerk or postmarked within 30 days of the last public hearing;
      (5)   All reports and recommendations as described in §
156.22(D) and (E);
      (6)   All reports, studies, exhibits or documents admitted into evidence
at the public hearing;
      (7)   A complete transcript of the public hearing(s);
      (8)   The findings of fact and recommendations of the Administrator of
the Department of Planning and Zoning, in cooperation with county staff and
consultants, and any other party to the hearings, including, but not limited
to, the applicant, the Hearing Officer and members of the public; and
      (9)   A copy of the findings of fact and the recommendation of the County
Pollution Control Site Hearing Committee and a copy of the findings of fact and
the resolution containing the final decision of the County Board.
   (C)   The County Clerk shall be responsible for certifying all copies of the
record of the public hearing.
(Prior Code, § 153.23) (Res. passed 3-16-1989; Res. passed 10-14-1999)
§ 156.24 POLLUTION CONTROL SITE HEARING COMMITTEE; PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   Composition of Committee.
      (1)   The County Pollution Control Site Hearing Committee shall consist
of the members of the County Land Use and Development Committee and the
Chairperson of the County Board.
      (2)   The Committee shall elect by a majority vote a Hearing Officer to
serve during any public hearing concerning an application for site location
approval. The Hearing Officer shall serve at the pleasure of the Committee.
Compensation for the services of the Hearing Officer shall be agreed upon
between the Hearing Officer and the county before the public hearings begin.
The Hearing Officer shall preside at the public hearing and shall make any
decisions concerning the admission of evidence and the manner in which the
hearing is conducted subject to this chapter. The Hearing Officer shall make
all rulings and decisions in accordance with fundamental fairness. No ruling of
the Hearing Officer concerning admissibility of evidence or procedural issues
at the public hearing shall be appealable to the Committee or the County Board.
   (B)   Chairperson of Committee. The Chairperson of the County Board shall
serve as the Chairperson of the Pollution Control Site Hearing Committee. In
the event that the Chairperson cannot serve, the Chairperson of the Land Use
and Development Committee shall assume the duties of Chairperson of the
Committee in relation to the public hearings on the application.
   (C)   Quorum. Four members of the Committee shall constitute a quorum for
the purpose of holding the public hearing.
   (D)   Public hearing.
      (1)   Within a reasonable time from the date the request for site
location approval is filed, the Chairperson of the County Board shall determine
the date, time and location upon which the public hearing shall be held. The
initial public hearing must be scheduled no sooner than 90 days, but no later
than 120 days, from the date the request for site approval was filed with the
County Clerk.
      (2)   If, in the Chairperson’s reasonable opinion, the facilities of the
county building are not sufficient to accommodate the number of persons
expected to attend the hearing, the Chairperson may arrange for the hearing to
be conducted at a site other than the county building. In such an event, the
Chairperson is authorized to lease an adequate auditorium and sound system for
the hearing. Any and all costs associated with the acquisition shall be paid by
the applicant.
      (3)   The Chairperson of the County Board shall promptly notify the
Administrator of the Department of Planning and Zoning of the date upon which
the hearing shall be held and shall request the Administrator of the Department
of Planning and Zoning to cause notice of the hearing to be made as set forth
in an Act Relating to the Location of Sanitary Landfills and Hazardous Waste
Disposal Sites (ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 39.3(d)). The notice must be given as
follows:
         (a)   At least once per week for three successive weeks in the legal
notice section of a newspaper of general circulation published in the county;
         (b)   At least once during the week preceding the public hearing, as a
display ad in a newspaper of general circulation throughout the county. The
notice shall consist of all items hereinafter described;
         (c)   Written notice sent by certified mail to all members of the
General Assembly from the district in which the proposed site is located;
         (d)   Written notice sent by certified mail to the State Environmental
Protection Agency; and
         (e)   The notice shall consist of the following:
            1.   The name and address of the applicant requesting the site
approval;
            2.   The name of the legal owners of the site property; if
ownership is in a land trust, the name(s) of the beneficiaries;
            3.   The legal description of the site;
            4.   The street address of the property. If there is no street
address, a description of the site with reference to location, ownership or
occupancy or in some other manner which reasonably identifies the property to
the local residents;
            5.   The nature and size of the proposed development;
            6.   The nature of the activity proposed;
            7.   The probable life of the proposed activity;
            8.   The time and date of the public hearing;
            9.   The location of the public hearing; and
            10.   A statement that all copies of evidence, other than
testimony, to be submitted by all parties to the siting process at the public
hearing must be filed with the County Clerk at least ten days before the date
of the first public hearing. In addition, a statement that a list of all
potential witnesses who are expected to testify at the public hearing, on
behalf of any party to the siting process, must be filed with the County Clerk
at least ten days before the date of the first public hearing.
      (4)   The Administrator of the Department of Planning and Zoning shall
promptly notify the applicant and all municipalities within one and one-half
miles of the proposed facility of the date, time and location of the hearing.
      (5)   The Administrator of the Department of Planning and Zoning shall
make the necessary arrangements to have a court reporter present at any public
hearing for purposes of establishing a record and a transcript thereof.
      (6)   The State’s Attorney, or an assistant, shall serve as legal advisor
for the County Regional Pollution Control Site Hearing Committee.
      (7)   All written reports, studies, exhibits or other evidence or copies
thereof, other than testimony, which any person desires to submit for the
record at the public hearing must be filed with the County Clerk at least ten
days before the public hearing and shall be available for public inspection in
the office of the County Clerk. A list of all potential witnesses who may be
called to testify at the public hearing by any party to the siting process must
be filed with the County Clerk at least ten days before the public hearing and
shall be available for public inspection in the office of the County Clerk. In
the event the tenth day prior to a public hearing falls on a Saturday, Sunday
or holiday, the next working day shall be considered the day the reports,
studies and exhibits must be filed. The County Clerk shall date stamp any
reports, studies, exhibits or other evidence upon receipt.
      (8)   Members of the public shall be allowed to obtain copies of any
documents filed upon payment of the actual cost of reproduction.
      (9)   All testimony at any public hearing shall be under oath or
affirmation.
      (10)   A transcript shall be kept of all proceedings before the Hearing
Committee.
      (11)   The applicant for site location approval shall have the burden of
proof and the burden of going forward first with evidence. The testimonial
evidence introduced by the applicant may not exceed the scope of the
application. The oral testimony may only explain and clarify the application,
not amend the application.
      (12)   All members of the public who desire to be participants in the
hearing must submit written notification, along with copies of evidence and a
list of potential witnesses, to the County Clerk ten days before the first day
of the public hearing. Any person so appearing at the public hearing shall have
the right to present testimony and witnesses. Any person shall have the right
to be represented by an attorney at the public hearing. Opportunity for any
persons appearing at the public hearing to cross-examine any witness may be
reasonably limited in time and duration by the Hearing Officer, to assure
completion of the hearings in accordance with deadlines in the State
Environmental Protection Act, being ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5. The Hearing Officer
may propound questions to any witness or to the applicant to clarify the record
established by the participants at the hearing or to bring out relevant
information. The county shall be deemed a participant and a party to all
proceedings and shall proceed last with its case and cross-examination.
      (13)   The applicant, county staff’s counsel and the Hearing Committee’s
counsel shall be allowed to cross-examine witnesses by right, subject to a
reasonable limitation as may be set by the Hearing Officer. Cross examination
by county staff’s or Hearing Committee’s counsel shall not be limited to
matters contained in the application. Parties represented by attorneys may be
allowed to cross-examine in the discretion of the Hearing Officer. Other
persons shall be allowed to submit questions to the Hearing Officer, who shall
exercise discretion in the manner in which the questions are to be posed to
witnesses. Sufficient examination of witnesses is to be allowed so as to
provide for fundamental fairness. All witnesses shall be subject to reasonable
examination as follows: direct, cross-examination, redirect, recross.
      (14)   The Hearing Officer may exercise discretion to allow public
comment at each hearing or may set one time for public comment.
      (15)   The Hearing Officer shall permit the county, the applicant and any
party to file proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law. The Hearing
Officer may draft his or her own findings of fact and conclusions of law and
submit them, and copies of other proposed findings of fact and conclusions of
law as may have been filed, to the Hearing Committee.
(Prior Code, § 153.24) (Res. passed 3-16-1989; Res. passed 10-14-1999)
§ 156.25 SITE APPROVAL DECISION.
   (A)   After the public hearings or any continuation thereof, the County
Regional Pollution Control Site Hearing Committee shall hold a public review
meeting for the purposes of establishing findings of fact and a recommendation
concerning the site approval request. Any findings of fact and recommendation
shall be supported by the record and shall be presented by the Committee to
each County Board member at least within 150 days from the County Clerk’s
filing of the site approval application.
   (B)   The County Board shall consider the record of the public hearing, the
findings of fact and the recommendations of the Pollution Control Site Hearing
Committee and shall make a determination concerning a site approval request not
more than 180 days from the date of the County Clerk’s filing of the site
approval request. The County Board may conditionally approve any request for
site approval; provided, the conditions are reasonable and necessary to satisfy
the criteria set forth in the Act (ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 39.2(a)) and so long
as the conditions are not inconsistent with regulations promulgated by the
State Pollution Control Board. Any determination by the County Board shall be
supported by the record.
   (C)   No determination by the County Board of a site approval request may be
reconsidered, except as provided in the Act (ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, §§ 1 et
seq.).
(Prior Code, § 153.25) (Res. passed 3-16-1989)
§ 156.26 ADMINISTRATION OF FEES AND COSTS.
   (A)   The Administrator of the Department of Planning and Zoning shall
establish a suitable accounting system for the acceptance, distribution and
reconciliation of the fee in accordance with good accounting practices.
   (B)   The application fee received pursuant to §
156.03 shall be deposited with the County Treasurer. The County Treasurer is
hereby authorized and directed to receive and hold the application fee until
payment is directed as described below.
   (C)   All expenses incurred by the county as a result of the application for
site approval and the hearing process set forth herein shall be paid from the
application fee.
   (D)   The Administrator of the Department of Planning and Zoning must give
preliminary approval before an expense chargeable to the application fee is
incurred, except notice and publication costs incurred.
   (E)   All costs incurred by the county, its staff officials and departments
as a result of administering the hearing process herein shall be reported to
the Administrator of the Department of Planning and Zoning.
      (1)   The Administrator of the Department of Planning and Zoning shall
submit the bills and expenditure requests to the County Board for approval. The
Board shall authorize reimbursement for expenditures and payment of all bills
upon proper documentation.
      (2)   Upon termination of any proceedings under the hearing process, the
County Clerk shall prepare a final accounting and summary of all bills and
expenses which shall be presented for approval to the Committee and to the
applicant.
   (F)   Any portion of an application fee not required for reimbursement to
the county for costs or expenses incurred by the county under the hearing
process shall be returned to the applicant. If the costs incurred by the county
exceed the required application fee, the Administrator of the Department of
Planning and Zoning shall present a claim to the applicant for the excess.
Payment of this excess is due within 30 days of the date the claim is presented
to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 153.26) (Res. passed 3-16-1989; Res. passed 12-12-1991)
§ 156.27 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   Appeals on the site location by any approved party shall be made in
accordance with § 40.1 of the Act (ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 40.1).
(Prior Code, § 153.27) (Res. passed 3-16-1989)
CHAPTER 157: SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
Section
General Provisions
   
157.01   Title
   
157.02   Statutory authorization
   
157.03   Purpose
   
157.04   Intent
   
157.05   Definitions
   
157.06   Ground mount and roof mount
   
157.07   Community solar garden
   
157.08   Commercial solar energy facility (SES)
   
157.09   Compliance with building permits
   
157.10   Indemnification
   
157.11   Liability insurance
   
157.12   Fees charged for building permit application and siting permit
application
   
157.13   Hearing factors
   
157.14   Severability
   
157.15   Complaints
   
157.16   Remedies
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as, referred to or cited as the “DeWitt County
Solar Energy Systems Ordinance of DeWitt County, Illinois.”
(Res. 2019-01, passed 3-21-19; Ord. passed 4-21-2022; Res. 23-10, passed 5-18-
2023; Ord. passed 11-28-2023)
§ 157.02 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   These regulations are adopted under the authority of state statutes. The
County Board does hereby ordain this chapter.
(Res. 2019-01, passed 3-21-2019; Ord. passed 4-21-2022; Res. 23-10, passed 5-
18-2023; Ord. passed 11-28-2023)
§ 157.03 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To enable the use of renewable energy sources if cost effective and
technically feasible; and
   (B)   It is in the best interests of the citizens of the county that zoning
and other regulations be promulgated so as to implement restrictions on the
placement and operation of solar energy systems within the county, which
preserve and/or protect the public health and/or safety of all citizens
residing in the county.
(Res. 2019-01, passed 3-21-2019; Ord. passed 4-21-2022; Res. 23-10, passed 5-
18-2023; Ord. passed 11-28-2023)
§ 157.04 INTENT.
   The intent of this chapter is to provide a means to regulate and restrict
the locations within the county where solar energy systems and facilities can
be constructed.
(Res. 2019-01, passed 3-21-2019; Ord. passed 4-21-2022; Res. 23-10, passed 5-
18-2023; Ord. passed 11-28-2023)
§ 157.05 DEFINITIONS
   The following terms shall apply to this chapter as written unless context
indicates or requires a different meaning:
   ACCESSORY. As applied to a building, structure or use, on which is on the
same lot with the main or principal structure or the main or principal use;
either  detached from or attached to the main or principal structure, and is
subordinate to and used for purposes customarily incidental to the main or
principal structure or the main or principal use.
   BUILDING INTEGRATED PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEMS. A solar energy system that
consists of integrating photovoltaic modules into the building structure as the
roof, or facade and which does not alter the relief of the roof.
   COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY BUILDING PERMIT. A permit necessary for the
commencement of work performed toward the construction, erection or
installation of an approved commercial solar energy facility, substation,
supporting facilities, or operations and maintenance building in connection
with a commercial solar energy facility. A commercial solar energy building
permit may be issued by the Zoning Administrator after a commercial solar
energy facility has obtained a siting permit from the County Board and the
Zoning Administrator determines that all conditions, if any, have been
satisfied that are imposed by the siting permit.
   COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY FACILITY. A commercial solar energy system as
defined in Section 10-720 of the Property Tax Code. COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY
FACILITY does not mean a utility-scale solar energy facility being constructed
at a site that was eligible to participate in a procurement event conducted by
the Illinois Power Agency pursuant to subsection (c-5) of Section 1-75 of the
Illinois Power Agency Act.
   COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS. A community solar-electric (photovoltaic)
array, up to 2MW in size (10 - 12 acres), that provides retail electric power
(or financial proxy for retail power) to multiple households or businesses
residing in or located off-site from the location of the solar energy system.
   FACILITY OWNER. (i) A person with a direct ownership interest in a
commercial solar energy facility, regardless of whether the person is involved
in acquiring the necessary rights, permits, and approvals or otherwise planning
for the construction and operation of the facility; and (ii) at the time the
facility is being developed, a person who is acting as a developer of the
facility by acquiring the necessary rights, permits, and approvals or by
planning for the construction and operation of the facility, regardless of
whether the person will own or operate the facility.
   GROUND MOUNT SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy system that is directly
installed into the ground and is not attached or affixed to an existing
structure.
   NON-PARTICIPATING PROPERTY. Real property that is not a participating
property.
   NON-PARTICIPATING RESIDENCE. A residence that is located on nonparticipating
property and that is existing and occupied on the date that an application for
a permit to develop the commercial solar energy facility is filed with the
county.
   OCCUPIED COMMUNITY BUILDING. Any one or more of the following buildings that
is existing and occupied on the date that the application for a permit to
develop the commercial solar facility is filed with the county: a school, place
of worship, day care facility, public library, or community center.
   PARTICIPATING PROPERTY. Real property that is the subject of a written
agreement between a facility owner and the owner of the real property that
provides the facility owner an easement, option, lease, or license to use the
real property for the purpose of constructing a commercial solar energy
facility or supporting facilities. PARTICIPATING PROPERTY also includes real
property that is owned by a facility owner for the purpose of constructing a
commercial solar energy facility or supporting facilities.
   PARTICIPATING RESIDENCE. A residence that is located on participating
property and that is existing and occupied on the date that an application for
a permit to develop the commercial solar energy facility is filed with the
county.
   PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM. A solar energy system that produces electricity by the
use of semiconductor devices called photovoltaic cells that generate
electricity whenever light strikes them.
   PROTECTED LANDS. Real property that is: (i) subject to a permanent
conservation right consistent with the Real Property Conservation Rights Act;
or (ii) registered or designated as a nature preserve, buffer, or land and
water reserve under the Illinois Natural Areas Preservation Act.
   QUALIFIED SOLAR INSTALLER. A trained and qualified electrical professional
who has the skills and knowledge related to the construction and operation of
solar electrical equipment and installations and has received safety training
on the hazards involved.
   ROOF MOUNT. A solar energy system in which solar panels are mounted on top
of a building roof as either a flush mounted system or as modules fixed to
frames which can be tilted toward the south at an optical angle.
   SOLAR ACCESS. Unobstructed access to direct sunlight on a lot or building
through the entire year, including access across adjacent parcel air rights,
for the purpose of capturing direct sunlight to operate a solar energy system.
   SOLAR COLLECTOR. A device, structure or part of a device or structure for
which the primary purpose is to transform solar radiant energy into thermal,
mechanical, chemical or electrical energy.
   SOLAR ENERGY. Radiant energy received from the sun that can be collected in
the form of heat or light by a solar collector.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES). The components and subsystems required to convert
solar energy into electric or thermal energy suitable for use. The area of the
system includes all the land inside the perimeter of the system, which extends
to any fencing. The term applies, but is not limited to, solar photovoltaic
systems, solar thermal systems and solar hot water systems.
   SOLAR STORAGE BATTERY/UNIT. A component of a solar energy device that is
used to store solar general electricity or heat for later use.
   SOLAR THERMAL SYSTEMS. Solar thermal system directly heats water or other
liquid using sunlight. The heated liquid is use for such purposes as space
heating and cooling, domestic hot water and heating pool water.
   SUBSCRIBER. Households or businesses receiving the direct benefit of
electric power generated by a Community Solar Garden.
   SUPPORTING FACILITIES. The transmission lines, substations, access roads,
meteorological towers, storage containers, and equipment associated with the
generation and storage of electricity by the commercial solar energy facility.
(Res. 2019-01, passed 3-21-2019; Ord. passed 4-21-2022; Res. 23-10, passed 5-
18-2023; Ord. passed 11-28-2023)
§ 157.06 GROUND MOUNT AND ROOF MOUNT.
   Ground mount and roof mount (SES) shall be permitted for private use in all
zoning districts where there is a structure. The system shall not be designed
for providing energy to off-site uses or export to the wholesale market. Net
metering will be allowed if approved by the electric utility in whose service
territory the system is located. A building permit shall be required for ground
mount only. Technical requirements are:
   (A)   Height.
      (1)   The combined height of the building and the roof mounted solar
system shall not exceed the maximum allowed height for principal structures in
any zoning district.
      (2)   Ground mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed ten feet in
height when oriented at maximum tilt.
      (3)   Ground mounted solar energy systems may not be placed in the front
yard.
   (B)   Setbacks.
      (1)   Ground mounted solar energy systems shall meet the accessory
structure setbacks for the zoning district in which the unit is located.
      (2)   Ground mounted solar energy systems shall not extend beyond the
side yard or rear yard setback when oriented at minimum design tilt.
      (3)   In addition to building setbacks the collector surface and mounting
devices for roof mounted systems shall not extend beyond the exterior perimeter
of the building on which the systems is mounted or built, unless the collector
or mounting system has been engineered to safely extend beyond the edge, and
setback requirements are not violated. Exterior piping for solar hot water
systems shall be allowed to extend beyond the perimeter of the building on a
side yard exposure,
   (C)   Reflection angles. Reflection angles for solar collectors shall be
oriented such that they do not project glare onto adjacent properties.
   (D)   Visibility. Solar energy systems shall be located in a manner to
reasonably minimize view blockage for surrounding properties and shading of
property to the North while still providing adequate solar access for
collectors.
   (E)   Safety.
      (1)   All solar energy systems shall be installed by a qualified solar
installer.
      (2)   Any connection to the public utility grid shall be inspected and
approved by the appropriate public utility.
      (3)   All solar energy systems shall be maintained and kept in good
working order. If it is determined by the Zoning Administrator that a solar
energy system is not being maintained, kept in good working order, or is no
longer being utilized to perform its intended function for six consecutive
months, the property owner shall be given 30 day notice for removal of unit and
all equipment. If the solar energy system is not removed within 30 days, the
Zoning Administrator will forward violation onto the DeWitt County State's
Attorney for prosecution on the violation.
   (F)   Approved solar components. Electric Solar energy system components
shall have a UL listing or approved equivalent and solar hot water systems
shall have a Solar Rating and Certification Corporation (SRCC) rating.
(Res. 2019-01, passed 3-21-2019; Ord. passed 4-21-2022; Res. 23-10, passed 5-
18-2023; Ord. passed 11-28-2023)
§ 157.07 COMMUNITY SOLAR GARDEN.
   Development of community solar energy systems is permitted by siting permit
as a principal use in all zoning districts subject to the following
requirements:
   (A)   Rooftop gardens. Rooftop gardens are permitted in all zoning
districts. A building permit will not be required.
   (B)   Ground mount gardens. Ground mount community solar energy systems up
to 2MW in size (10 - 12 acres), and require a siting permit in all districts. A
building permit shall be required.
   (C)   Interconnection. An interconnection agreement must be completed with
the electric utility in whose service territory the system is located, and
included with the siting permit application.
   (D)   Glare. Solar collectors shall be designed such that concentrated solar
glare does not project onto nearby structures, roadways, or other areas
accessible to the public. After construction of the SES, the Zoning
Administrator shall notify the solar operator to take reasonable steps within
30 days to mitigate the glare such as the installation of additional screening.
   (E)   Dimension standards. All solar garden related structures in newly
platted and existing platted subdivisions shall comply with the principal
structure setback, height, and coverage limitations for the district in which
the system is located.
   (F)   A minimum separation distance of two miles between each community
solar garden.
   (G)   Height. Systems, equipment and structures shall not exceed 20 feet in
height when ground mounted. Excluded from this height requirement, however, are
electric transmission lines and utility poles.
   (H)   Aviation protection. The applicant shall complete and provide the
results of the Solar Glaze Hazard Analysis Tool (SGHAT) for the final approach
paths, consistent with the Interim Policy, FAA Review of Solar Energy Projects
on Federal Obligated Airports, or most recent version adopted by the FAA for
solar energy systems located within one half mile of the approach zones of:
      (1)   A restricted landing area as defined in 14.105 of Title 92 of the
Illinois Administrative Code.
      (2)   A private-use airport as defined in Section 157.2 of Title 14 of
the Code of Federal Regulations.
      (3)   A notice to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has been
filed under Section 157.3 of Title 14 of the Code of Federal Regulations prior
to the submission of the Siting Permit Application; and
      (4) An airport determination has been issued by the FAA with a
determination of no objection or the airport determination remains pending.
   (I)   Other standards. All solar gardens shall comply with all other state
and local requirements.
(Res. 2019-01, passed 3-21-2019; Ord. passed 4-21-2022; Res. 23-10, passed 5-
18-2023; Ord. passed 11-28-2023)
§ 157.08 COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY FACILITY (SES).
   Commercial ground mount solar energy systems designed for providing energy
to off-site users or export to the wholesale market require a siting permit and
are allowed in the General Industrial (I), Rural Development-1 (RD1), Rural
Development-2 (RD2), and Agricultural (A) Districts.
   (A)   Design standards for the commercial solar energy facility (SES). The
design standards and bulk regulations listed in the General Industrial (I) and
Agricultural (A) Districts for setbacks, lot size, lot coverage, lot area,
height, fencing, and signage shall be suspended for all commercial solar energy
facilities and the following regulations shall apply instead. All other design
standards and bulk regulations of the district shall apply.
      (1)   Structure. The foundation and design of the solar structures shall
be designed and sealed by an Illinois licensed professional engineer. The
design shall conform to applicable codes, standards and local soil and climate
conditions.
      (2)   Standards and codes. All solar facilities shall be in compliance
with any applicable local, state and federal regulatory standards, and the
National Electric Code as amended.
      (3)   Power and communication lines. Power and communication lines
running between banks of solar panels and to electric substations or
interconnections with buildings shall be buried underground.
      (4)   Minimum lot size. No commercial solar energy facility shall be
erected on any lot of five acres or less in size.
      (5)   Height. Systems, equipment and structures shall not exceed 20 feet
in height when ground mounted. Excluded from this height requirement, however,
are electric transmission lines and utility poles.
      (6)   Setbacks. Ground mounted solar energy systems as part of a solar
facility shall have a setback for all equipment excluding fences a minimum of
50 feet from all non-participating property lines and public road rights-of-
way, and a minimum of 150 feet from all occupied community buildings and
dwellings on non-participating properties. These setback requirements may be
waived in writing by the affected non-participating property owner.
      (7)   Fencing.
         (a)   Unless otherwise provided in this section, security fencing
having a minimum height of six feet and a maximum of 25 feet shall be
installed, maintained, and secured around the commercial solar energy facility.
         (b)   Fencing shall contain appropriate warning signage that is in
accordance with NESC and ANSI Z535 safety sign standards and OSHA regulations.
         (c)   The required fence shall be maintained by the applicant to
prevent growth of wood vegetation or noxious weeds within and along the fence.
         (d)   Fencing is not required between participating parcels.
         (e)   Knox boxes and keys shall be provided at locked entrances for
emergency personnel access.
      (8)   Screening. In an effort to help minimize the visual impacts of an
SES on adjacent, nonparticipating residences, from a single-story viewpoint,
screening shall be provided as follows:
         (a)   Platted subdivisions. A platted subdivision shall have a visual
screen designed, installed, maintained, and ultimately removed by the applicant
at the time of decommissioning. The visual screen will be installed on property
being leased by the SES, immediately adjacent to the property line. This
provides for the most effective screening and minimizes the potential of drain
tile damages.
         (b)   A visual screening option shall be provided by the applicant to
the owner of any adjacent nonparticipating residence, excluding platted
subdivisions, subject to the provisions of this section.
            1.   The visual screening option shall provide the following
options:
               a.   The owner of any adjacent, nonparticipating residence, at
their discretion, may elect to receive a one-time payment from the applicant
equal to the cost of design, installation, maintenance, and removal of a visual
screen in lieu of the actual visual screen. This option shall be detailed in
writing by the applicant, including a proposed design and budgetary estimate
for the design, installation, maintenance, and removal of the visual screen, as
prepared by an Illinois registered landscape architect. This one-time payment
allows for the owner of the adjacent nonparticipating residence to install the
visual screen on their own property if and as they desire subject to the
current zoning requirements. This one-time payment shall be paid prior to the
issuance of any building permit, and proof of payment shall be provided to the
Zoning Administrator.
               b.   The owner of any adjacent, nonparticipating residence, at
their discretion, may request a visual screen be designed, installed,
maintained, and ultimately removed by the applicant at the time of
decommissioning. If this option is chosen, the visual screen will be installed
on the property being leased by the SES, immediately adjacent to the property
line. This provides for the most effective screening and minimizes the
potential of drain tile damage.
               c.   If the owner of any adjacent, nonparticipating residence
does not elect one of the two options above, no visual screen will be
installed, and a one-time payment will be provided as described in the first
option.
         (c)   A minimum of 30 days prior to the issuance of any building
permit, the applicant shall provide a signed copy of a memorandum of
understanding to the Zoning Administrator, outlining the terms of the visual
screening option as agreed upon by the applicant and owner of any adjacent,
nonparticipating residence.
         (d)   Standards for a visual screen are as follows:
            1.   A visual screen shall be in the form of vegetative
landscaping, opaque fencing, or approved combination thereof, as agreed upon by
the nonparticipating landowner and the applicant.
            2.   All visual screens shall be designed and prepared by an
Illinois registered landscape architect.
            3.   All fences used as, or part of a visual screen must be built
in accordance with §
157.08 of the DeWitt County Code.
            4.   All vegetative landscaping shall be planted at a minimum of
three feet tall with an expected minimum height of eight feet.
            5.   All visual screens that are installed by the applicant shall
be maintained in good condition by the applicant at all times.
            6.   The visual screen shall be installed as early as possible in
construction phase of the SES.
            7.   An alternative buffer may also be considered. Earth berms
other topographical features and existing wooded areas may be accepted by a
nonparticipating land owner in lieu or in combination of the above
requirements, if they conceal the use from public view and are maintained.
      (9)   Lighting. If lighting is provided at the site, lighting shall be
inward facing and not higher than 25 feet. When adjacent to residential areas,
the filament or light source shall be shielded with opaque material in such a
way that they will not be visible at ground level or above.
      (10)   Signage. An appropriate warning sign shall be provided at the
entrance to the facility and along the perimeter to the solar facility project.
The sign at the entrance to the facility shall include the facility's 911
address and a 24-hour emergency contact number.
      (11)   Outdoor storage. Only the outdoor storage of materials, vehicles
and equipment that directly support the operation and maintenance of the solar
facility shall be allowed. In any event all outdoor storage areas shall be
either fenced or screened to prevent viewing from adjoining properties and
uses.
      (12)   Storm water management. Existing drainage patterns shall be
maintained. The applicant shall coordinate their drainage design with the local
Soil and Water Conservation District prior to any building permits being
issued.
      (13)   Noise.
         (a)   Noise levels must comply with the sound limitations set by the
Illinois Pollution Control Board under 35 Ill. Admin. Code Parts 900, 901, and
910. Noise levels at non- participating properties shall be tested upon request
of the Zoning Administrator. The tested results shall be provided to the Zoning
Administrator.
         (b)   The application, through the use of a qualified professional, as
part of the siting approval application process, shall appropriately
demonstrate compliance with the noise requirements of this siting section and
provide contour maps and at intervals of not greater than five feet. Sound
pressure levels shall be measured using the measurement procedures set forth in
the IPCB regulations, except that sound pressure levels for purposes of
establishing a violation of this section may be measured at any point on
residentially used property and for agricultural property not more than 150
feet from any portion of the edge of the primary structure. No portion of the
property shall exceed the noise levels set by the IPCB. To the extent any
property has multiple uses or classifications, all land utilized for a
particular use must not exceed the IPCB noise regulations for the
classification of use. The owner of the receiving land may waive compliance
with local measuring points requirements pertaining to the IPCB regulations for
the owner’s property.
         (c)   The commercial solar energy facility project will maintain
compliance with the applicable IPCB regulations throughout the entire
operational period of the commercial solar energy facility project. Upon
complaint, the county shall hire a qualified noise acoustician to conduct
testing for a 30 day period at the ten most at risk residential property lines
and ten most at risk primary structures of an agricultural property as modeled
in the application to ensure ongoing compliance with the IPCB noise
regulations. The cost to conduct such testing shall be borne by the facility
owner. If the facility owner does not pay within 30 days of being provided an
invoice for these costs, the remedies provisions of this section shall apply.
If at any time throughout the life of the commercial solar energy facility
project, the noise levels are found to not be in compliance with this section,
the applicant or facility owner will immediately shut off the commercial solar
energy facility until the Zoning Administrator approves a solution.
      (14)   Glare. Solar collectors shall be designed such that concentrated
solar glare does not project onto nearby structures, roadways, or other areas
accessible to the public. After construction of the SES, the Zoning
Administrator shall notify the solar operator to take reasonable steps within
30 days to mitigate the glare such as the installation of additional screening.
      (15)   Battery storage. Utility-scale battery storage areas must be
contained with a fire suppression system and an emergency response plan in
place. Battery storage is not permitted within 3,000 feet of any residential
structure, school, church, hospital or child daycare facility. This setback
requirements may be waived in writing by affected property owner.
      (16)   Any commercial solar energy system (SES) proposed within one and
one-half miles of the corporate limits of an incorporated village or
municipality shall be subject to the approval of said incorporated village or
municipality before a siting permit shall be granted for said proposed SES.
   (B)   The following information shall be submitted as part of the siting
permit application.
      (1)   A site plan with existing conditions showing the following:
         (a)   Existing property lines extending 100 feet from the property
boundaries including the names of all adjacent property owners and the current
use of the properties.
         (b)   Existing public and private roads, showing widths of the road
and any associated easements.
         (c)   Location and size of any abandoned wells, sewage treatment
systems.
         (d)   Existing building and impervious surfaces.
         (e)   A contour map showing topography at one-foot intervals. A
contour map of adjacent properties is also required.
         (f)   Existing vegetation (list type and percent of coverage: i.e.,
cropland/plowed fields, grassland, wooded areas and the like).
         (g)   Waterways, watercourses, lakes and public water wetlands.
         (h)   Any delineated wetland boundaries.
         (i)   A copy of the current FEMA FIRM map that shows the subject
property and the 100-year flood elevation and any regulated flood protection
elevation, if available.
         (j)   Floodway, flood fringe and/or general floodplain district
boundary if applicable, and not provided on the copy of the current FEMA FIRM
map.
         (k)   Mapped soils according to the DeWitt County soil survey.
         (l)   Surface water drainage patterns.
         (m)   The location of any subsurface drainage tiles and surface
drains.
         (n)   Existing structures.
         (o)   Existing substations.
         (p)   Radiation monitoring stations.
         (q)   Any other significant features.
      (2)   A site plan of proposed conditions:
         (a)   Location and spacing of solar panels.
         (b)   Location of access roads and access points.
         (c)   Planned location of underground or overhead electric lines
connecting the solar facility to a building, substation or other electric load.
         (d)   New electrical equipment.
         (e)   Sketch elevation of the premises accurately depicting proposed
solar energy conversion system and its relationship to structures on adjacent
land.
         (f)   Fencing and weed grass control. The applicant shall submit an
acceptable weed/grass control plan for property inside and outside the fenced
area for the entire property. The weed/grass control plan must address the
effect of storm water runoff on neighboring properties. The operating company
or successor during the operation of the solar facility must maintain the fence
and adhere to the weed/grass control plan. If the Zoning Administrator
determines that the owner/operator is not compliant, a fine of $1,500 per day
will be assessed until the violation is brought back into compliance.
         (g)   Setbacks.
      (3)   Manufacturer's specifications. The manufacturer's specifications
and recommended installation methods for all major equipment, including solar
panels, mounting systems and foundations for poles and racks.
      (4)   Connection and interconnection.
         (a)   A description of the method of connecting the SOLAR array to a
substation.
         (b)   Utility interconnection details and a copy of written
notification to the utility company requesting the proposed interconnection.
      (5)   A fire protection plan for the construction and the operation of
the facility, and emergency access of the site.
      (6)   Aviation protection. The applicant shall complete and provide the
results of the Solar Glaze Hazard Analysis Tool (SGHAT) for the final approach
paths, consistent with the Interim Policy, FAA Review of Solar Energy Projects
on Federal Obligated Airports, or most recent version adopted by the FAA for
solar energy systems located within one-half mile of the approach zones of:
         (a)   A restricted landing area as defined in 14.105 of Title 92 of
the Illinois Administrative Code.
         (b)   A private-use airport as defined in Section 157.2 of Title 14 of
the Code of Federal Regulations and for which:
            1.   A notice to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has been
filed under Section 157.3 of Title 14 of the Code of Federal Regulations prior
to the submission of the siting permit application; and
            2.   An airport determination has been issued by the FAA with a
determination of no objection or a conditional determination or the airport
determination remains pending.
      (7)   Environmental and historical studies.
         (a)   Solar facility developers shall be required to initiate a
natural resource review consultation with the IL Department of Natural
Resources (IDNR) through the Department's online EcoCat Program. Areas reviewed
through this process will be endangered species and wetlands. The cost of the
EcoCat consultation shall be borne by the developer. All recommendations shall
be executed.
         (b)   The commercial solar energy facility must adhere to the
recommendations provided by the Illinois Department of Natural Resources in an
EcoCat natural resource review report under 17 Ill. Admin. Code Part 1075.
            1.   A commercial solar energy facility owner must demonstrate
avoidance of protected lands as identified by the Illinois Department of
Natural Resources and the Illinois Natural Preserve Commission; or
            2.   Adheres to the recommendation of the Illinois Department of
Natural Resources for setbacks from protected lands, including areas identified
by the Illinois Natural Preserve Commission.
         (c)   The facility owner must provide evidence of consultation with
the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office to access potential impacts on
state-registered historic sites under the Illinois State Agency Historic
Resources Preservation Act.
         (d)   Every 36 months, the Zoning Administrator may hire a qualified
wildlife expert to conduct a study to determine whether the commercial solar
energy facility is in compliance with the Illinois Department of Natural
Resources' recommendations in the form of an EcoCat natural resource review
report. The cost to conduct such testing shall be borne by the facility owner.
If the facility owner does not pay within 30 days of being provided an invoice
for these costs, the remedies provisions of this section shall apply. The
commercial solar energy facility shall at all times comply with and adhere to
the recommendations provided by the Illinois State Historic Preservation
Office. If at any time throughout the lift of the commercial solar energy
facility project, the project is found to not be in compliance with the IDNR
recommendations or the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office the
applicant or facility owner will immediately shut down the commercial solar
energy facility to ensure compliance with these recommendations until a
solution to the violations is found and approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      (8)   At the time of siting permit application, the applicant shall
submit:
         (a)   An executed agreement between the solar power plant owner/
operator and all road district authorities with infrastructure affected by the
solar power plant to the Zoning Administrator. This agreement shall include at
a minimum:
            1.   A final map identifying the routes that will be used.
            2.   A plan for maintaining and/or repairing the affected roads.
         (b)   A description of the method of connecting the array to a
substation.
         (c)   A written demonstration shall be provided that the applicant is
in the queue to acquire an interconnect agreement. Then pre-operation of the
project, a copy of an interconnect agreement with the appropriate electric
utility, or a written explanation outlining why an interconnection agreement is
not necessary should be provided to the county.
         (d)   Shall, at their expense, locate all mutual tile drain systems
that drain farms that are affected by the solar energy system. The applicant
shall be responsible for any damage to these tiles and repairs made at the
applicant's expense.
         (e)   Provide properly executed agreements with all incorporated
municipalities within one and one-half miles of the SES.
      (9)   Decommissioning plan. At the time of siting permit application, an
estimate of the decommissioning costs in current dollars shall be prepared
under seal of an Illinois licensed professional engineer.
   (C)   Decommissioning plan.
      (1)   Before a building permit can be granted, the applicant must present
a decommission plan to ensure that SES facilities are removed after their
useful life. Decommissioning of solar panels must occur in the event they are
not producing power for 12 consecutive months. The last day of this 12-month
period shall be considered the termination date. The operating company and/or
landowner shall complete decommissioning of the SES within 12 months of the
termination date, or the county may perform decommissioning at the operating
company's expense. The decommission plan shall include provisions and the
estimated costs for removal of all structures and modifications including
equipment, fencing, roads, and foundations, including but not limited to the
restoration of soil and vegetation necessary to return the land to the
condition in which it existed at the time the application for siting permit was
first filed. The plan must also describe the particular financial security the
applicant proposes to offer to guarantee completion of the applicant's
decommissioning obligations on the site. A bond, letter of credit or other form
of security shall be the applicant's deposit of the determined monetary amount
in the county escrow account as designated by the County Treasurer, unless the
County Board in its sole discretion, agrees to accept alternative security, or
a portion thereof, in the form of a security bond approved by the county. An
update to the decommissioning plan shall be prepared by the applicant or its
successors and submitted to the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Prior to construction, the facility owner or operator of the SES
shall submit an engineer's estimate of cost of decommissioning the SES and
restoring site in accordance with the approved decommissioning plan. Upon
review and approval of the estimate, the facility owner or operator shall
obtain a bond, letter of credit, or other form of security acceptable to the
county to be held by the County Treasurer, with payments deposited at intervals
and in the amounts as outlined in the AIMA agreement.
      (3)   The decommissioning plan shall provide for the removal of all of
the following within 12 months of the termination of the SES operation:
         (a)   All solar collectors and components, above ground improvements,
and outside storage.
         (b)   Foundations, pads, and underground electrical wires so as to
reclaim all sites to the depth of five feet below the surface of the ground.
This shall include vertical/horizontal receptor wires. Horizontal lines five
feet or deeper do not need to be removed.
         (c)   Hazardous materials shall be disposed of in accordance with
state and federal laws.
         (d)   Any earth disturbances resulting from the removal of the ground
mounted solar panels must be put back to the previous condition.
   (D)   Operation.
      (1)   Annual report. The applicant must submit, on an annual basis on the
anniversary date of the siting permit application, an operation and maintenance
report to the Zoning Administrator. The report shall contain the following
information: (i) a general description of any physical repairs, replacements or
modification(s) to the commercial solar energy facility and/or its
infrastructure; (ii) complaints pertaining to setbacks, noise, appearance,
safety, lighting and use of any public roads received by the applicant
concerning the commercial solar energy facility and the resolution of such
complaints; (iii) calls for emergency services; (iv) status of liability
insurance; and (v) a general summary of service calls to the commercial solar
energy facility. Failure to provide the annual report shall be considered a
material violation of this section.
      (2)   Any physical modification to the SES that increases the number of
solar conversion structures and/or the land area occupied by the SES shall
require a new siting permit. Like for like replacement of all SES components
including but not limited to solar panels, transformers, inverters, cabling,
shall not require recertification provided replacement is done in an equivalent
fashion to the original installation.
      (3)   The application shall explain methods and materials used to clean
the SES equipment including an estimation of the daily and annual gallons of
water used and the source of the water and management of wastewater. The
applicant will comply with the Illinois State Water Survey and the IEPA.
   (E)   Materials handling, storage and disposal.
      (1)   All solid waste related to the construction, operation and
maintenance of the SES shall be removed from the site promptly and disposed of
in accordance with all federal, state, and local laws.
      (2)   All hazardous materials related to the construction, operation, and
maintenance of the SES shall be handled, stored, transported, and disposed of
in accordance with all applicable local, state, and federal laws.
   (F)   Point of contact. The applicant of the SES shall maintain with the
Zoning Administrator and DeWitt County Sheriffs Department a primary and two
secondary points of contact. This information shall be kept current at all
times, and changes shall be reported immediately or as soon as is possible.
   (G)   As-built maps and plans. Within 60 calendar days of completion of
construction of the commercial solar energy facility, the applicant or operator
shall deliver "as-built" maps, site plan and engineering plans for the
commercial solar energy facility that have been signed and stamped by a
professional engineer and a licensed surveyor.
   (H)   Hours of construction and hauling operations.
      (1)   Exterior construction activity and hauling operations to or from a
construction site shall be limited to Monday through Saturday, between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m., when the construction site is located within
one mile of non-participating property that has a residential structure.
      (2)   Exterior construction activity and hauling operations shall be
strictly prohibited on Sundays and on federal or state recognized holidays.
      (3)   Exterior illumination of the construction site through the use of
flood lights and/or similar lighting devices higher than 25 feet is strictly
prohibited between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on any day of the week.
   (I)   Where a siting permit has been issued pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter, the permit may become null and void by action of the County Board
unless work thereon commences within one year of the date of granting the site
permit. A siting permit shall be deemed to authorize only one particular use
and may be cancelled by the County Board if that use ceases for more than 12
consecutive months.
(Res. 2019-01, passed 3-21-2019; Ord. passed 4-21-2022; Res. 23-10, passed 5-
18-2023; Ord. passed 11-28-2023; Ord. passed 2-22-2024)
§ 157.09 COMPLIANCE WITH BUILDING PERMITS.
   The county shall retain, at the applicant's expense, the services of an
independent engineering consultant to assist with permitting application and
observe construction of the SES. The consultant shall be approved by the County
Board prior to beginning any work on the SES. The consultant shall be an
Illinois state licensed professional engineer. The consultant shall visit the
site at intervals appropriate to the stage of construction, or as otherwise
directed by the county, in order to observe the progress and quality of work
completed by the contractor. The consultant shall prepare reports for each
visit to the site detailing observations of the work performed and forward
those reports to the Zoning Administrator within five business days following
the date of the site visit. The consultant shall submit invoices for services
to the applicant and the Zoning Administrator bi-monthly. The applicant shall
process and submit payment directly to the consultant within 15 business days
of receipt of invoice. The consultant shall file a certification of a final
inspection to the County indicating the structure(s) meet compliance with the
International Building Code, International Existing Building Code;
International Property Maintenance Code, and the 2008 or later edition of the
National Electrical Code (NFPA 70) - National Fire Protection Association.
(Res. 2019-01, passed 3-21-2019; Ord. passed 4-21-2022; Res. 23-10, passed 5-
18-2023; Ord. passed 11-28-2023)
§ 157.10 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   The applicant shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless Dewitt County,
a body politic and its officials, employees and agents from and against any and
all claims, demands, losses, suits, causes of action, damages, injuries, costs,
expenses and liabilities whatsoever, including reasonable attorney's fees (the
liabilities together known as “liability”) arising out of the applicant's
selection, construction, operation and removal of the solar panels and
affiliated equipment including, without limitation, liability for property or
personal injury (including death), whether the liability is premised on
contract or on tort (including, without limitation, strict liability or
negligence).
   (B)   This general indemnification shall not be construed as limiting or
qualifying the county's other indemnification rights available under the law.
   (C)   All costs incurred by the county shall be paid by the applicant, owner
or operator. Cost incurred under this section shall include, but not be limited
to, the cost of experts and/or attorneys that may be used at any stage of the
project, including the application review, hearing process, consideration of
the application by the Zoning Administrator, permitting, operations phase and/
or decommissioning phase. In addition, costs of any appeal or litigation
resulting from any project, application, action, permit or work undertaken or
performed by the county shall be paid by the applicant, owner or operator,
including, but not limited to, the cost of experts and attorney's fees.
(Res. 2019-01, passed 3-21-2019; Ord. passed 4-21-2022; Res. 23-10, passed 5-
18-2023; Ord. passed 11-28-2023)
§ 157.11 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   The owner operator of the commercial solar energy facility shall maintain a
current general liability policy covering bodily injury and property damage and
name DeWitt County as an additional insured with limits of at least $5,000,000
per occurrence and $20,000,000 in the aggregate during the life of the project.
DeWitt County may increase the coverage amounts from time to time so long as
such increases are commercial reasonable.
(Res. 2019-01, passed 3-21-2019; Ord. passed 4-21-2022; Res. 23-10, passed 5-
18-2023; Ord. passed 11-28-2023)
§ 157.12 FEES CHARGED FOR BUILDING PERMIT APPLICATION AND SITING PERMIT
APPLICATION.
   (A)   Siting permit fees. These fees shall apply only to SES projects and
shall supersede any other fee calculation for siting permits.
      (1)   Community solar energy system is $5,000 per application.
      (2)   Commercial solar energy facility is $5,000 plus $35 per acre.
      (3)   This fee shall be used to cover DeWitt County's costs incurred
during the siting permit application review process, public hearings, and Board
approval of the SES including, but not limited to, internal expenses, hiring
external technical experts, attorneys, or other professionals to assist with
the review, meeting venues for public hearings, and all other expenses incurred
by the county to ensure the application meets the requirements of this chapter.
Should the actual costs to the county exceed the fee amount, the applicant
shall be responsible for those costs and shall remit additional funds within 15
days written notice from the county.
   (B)   Building permit fee.
      (1)   Private use/community solar energy systems.
 
0-4 kilowatts (kW-dc)       $75
5-15 kilowatts (kW-dc)      $150
16-50 kilowatts (kW-dc)     $300
51-100 kilowatts (kW-dc)    $500
101-500 kilowatts (kW-dc)   $1,000
501-1000 kilowatts (kW-dc)  $3,000
1001-2000 kilowatts (kW-dc) $5,000
 
      (2)   The building permit fee for commercial solar energy facility is
$5,000 for the first two megawatts (MW) and $1,000 for each additional megawatt
(MW).
(Res. 2019-01, passed 3-21-2019; Ord. passed 4-21-2022; Res. 23-10, passed 5-
18-2023; Ord. passed 11-28-2023)
§ 157.13 HEARING FACTORS.
   The County Board may approve a siting permit application if it finds the
evidence complies with state, federal, and local law and regulations, and with
the standards of these regulations, and with the standards of this zoning code
including the factors listed below. The factors below are applied as a
balancing test, not individual requirements to be met.
   (A)   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the commercial solar
energy facility will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health,
safety, morals, comfort or general welfare.
   (B)   The commercial solar energy facility will not be injurious to the uses
and enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes
already permitted, nor substantially diminish and impair property values of
surrounding properties.
   (C)   The establishment of the commercial solar energy facility will not
impede the normal and orderly development and improvement of the surrounding
properties.
   (D)   Adequate public utilities, access roads, drainage and/or necessary
facilities have been or will be provided.
   (E)   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress and
egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets.
   (F)   The proposed commercial solar energy facility is not contrary to the
objectives of the current comprehensive plan of the county.
   (G)   The commercial solar energy facility shall, in all other respects,
conform to the applicable regulations of this chapter and the zoning district
in which it is located, except as such regulations may, in each instance, be
modified pursuant to the recommendations of and approved by the County Board.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2023)
§ 157.14 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, paragraph, clause, phrase or part of this chapter is for any
reason held invalid by any court or competent jurisdiction, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the remaining provisions of these regulations.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2023)
§ 157.15 COMPLAINTS.
   The applicant of the SES shall, at the applicant's expense and in
coordination with the county, develop a system for logging and investigating
all complaints related to the operational standards set forth in this chapter.
The complaint logging process must be approved by majority vote of the County
Board. If the county determines it is reasonable and necessary, it may
undertake an investigation of the alleged operation violation by a qualified
individual mutually acceptable to the county and the owner of the SES. After
the investigation, if the County Board reasonably concludes the operation
violations are shown to be caused by the SES, the applicant shall use
reasonable efforts to mitigate the problems on a case by case basis.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2023)
§ 157.16 REMEDIES.
   (A)   If the county concludes that any part of the SES was not constructed
in compliance with the details of the permit application, good utility practice
or constitutes a danger to persons or property, then upon notice being provided
by the Zoning Administrator, the applicant shall have 90 days to bring non-
compliant SES(s) into compliance with the standards specified herein. If 90
days is insufficient time to cure the non-compliance, the applicant shall
present a plan to the Zoning Administrator describing the reason for the delay
and the time frame for the cure to be put in place. Failure to bring the non-
compliant SES(s) into compliance or failure to provide a plan for compliance
within 90 days shall constitute grounds for the county to demand removal of the
SES(s) at the applicant's expense and all construction work on the SES(s) shall
cease until the non-compliances are resolved to the satisfaction of the County
Board.
   (B)   The applicant's, owner's, or operator's failure to materially comply
with any of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a default under
this chapter.
   (C)   Prior to implementation of the existing county procedures for the
resolution of such default(s), the Zoning Administrator shall first provide
written notice to the owner and operator, setting forth the alleged default(s).
Such written notice shall provide the owner and operator a reasonable time
period, not to exceed 60 days, for good faith negotiations to resolve the
alleged default(s).
   (D)   If the Zoning Administrator determines in its sole discretion that
parties cannot resolve the alleged default(s) within the good faith negotiation
period, the existing county ordinance provisions addressing the resolution of
such default(s) shall govern.
   (E)   Penalties. Violations of any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions set
forth in §
10.99.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2023)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
            Submitted pursuant to §
            153.25, Siting Approval, a road upgrade and maintenance agreement between the
–  - -    county and certain developers (known as “D-1” and “D-2”) and their
            contractors, sub-contractors, agents, employees, suppliers and designees for
            the application of a principal road upgrade schedule for improving county
            roads
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Cites Code Section
ILCS Cites                         Code Section
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.01             10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.02             10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.03             10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.04             10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.05             10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.07             10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.08             10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.09             10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10             10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.11             10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.12             10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.15             10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.16             10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.17             10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.24             10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.28             10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.29             10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 2                10.04
Ch. 5, Act 120                     32.05;
                                   36.15
Ch. 5, Act 140                     36.11;
                                   36.15
Ch. 5, Act 140, § 1               36.01
Ch. 5, Act 140, § 2               36.02
Ch. 5, Act 140, § 2.1             36.04
Ch. 5, Act 140, § 2.5             36.03
Ch. 5, Act 140, § 2.15            36.05
Ch. 5, Act 140, § 2.20            36.06
Ch. 5, Act 140, § 3               36.07
Ch. 5, Act 140, § 3.1             36.08
Ch. 5, Act 140, § 3.2             36.09
Ch. 5, Act 140, § 3.3             36.10
Ch. 5, Act 140, § 3.5             36.11
Ch. 5, Act 140, § 3.6             36.07;
                                   36.18
Ch. 5, Act 140, § 4               36.12
Ch. 5, Act 140, § 5               36.13
Ch. 5, Act 140, § 6               36.14
Ch. 5, Act 140, § 7.5             36.16
Ch. 5, Act 140, § 8.5             36.07
Ch. 5, Act 140, § 9               36.17
Ch. 5, Act 140, § 9.5             36.18
Ch. 5, Act 140, § 11              36.19
Ch. 5, Act 140, § 11.5            36.20
Ch. 5, Act 175                     36.15
Ch. 5, Act 179, § 40              38.366
Ch. 5, Act 275                     34.03;
                                   34.05
Ch. 5, Act 315, § 3               32.01
Ch. 5, Act 410                     36.15
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 5-65            38.349
Ch. 10, Act 5, § 1-3              32.01
Ch. 10, Act 5, § 9-1.4            32.01
Ch. 10, Act 5, § 9-3              32.01
Ch. 20, Act 5515                   36.02
Ch. 35, Act 200, § 21-330         35.23
Ch. 35, Act 1010                   36.15
Ch. 50, Act 820                    111.001
Ch. 55                             30.01
Ch. 55, Act 5, § 4-11001          33.08
Ch. 55, Act 5, § 5-1041           154.003
Ch. 55, Act 5, § 5-1067           150.01
Ch. 55, Act 5, §§ 5-12001 et seq.39.01
Ch. 55, Act 5, §§ 5-13001 et seq.39.01
Ch. 55, Act 5, § 4.01             156.27
Ch. 55, Act 115                    31.03
Ch. 65, Act 5                      10.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-1-2            10.02
Ch. 70, Act 3105, §§ 3.01—3.06 51.01
Ch. 105, Act 5                     36.15
Ch. 110, Act 26                    36.15
Ch. 210, Act 115                   35.05
Ch. 210, Act 120                   155.095
Ch. 220, Act 5                     36.15
Ch. 225, Act 5                     110.45
Ch. 225, Act 41                    36.15
Ch. 225, Act 159                   36.15
Ch. 225 Act 345, § 1              53.24
Ch. 225, Act 465                   35.04
Ch. 305, Act 5                     36.15
Ch. 410, Act 130, §§ 1 et seq.   155.081
Ch. 410, Act 620                   111.001
Ch. 410, Act 625, § 3.6           111.002
                                   152.21;
Ch. 415, Act 5                     156.02—
                                   156.04
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 1               156.04
Ch. 415, Act 5, §§ 1 et seq.     156.04;
                                   156.25
Ch. 415, Act 5, §§ 5-25001 et seq31.04
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 14.2            156.04
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 14.3            156.04
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 22.19a          156.04
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 39.2            51.02
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 39.2(a)         156.25
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 39.2(b)         156.23
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 39.3(d)         156.24
Ch. 415, Act 10, §§ 1 et seq.    156.04
Ch. 415, Act 15, §§ 1 et seq.    156.04
Ch. 415, Act 55                    53.03
                                   90.022;
Ch. 510, Act 5                     90.023;
                                   90.038
Ch. 510, Act 5, § 10           90.087
                                   36.14;
Ch. 625, Act 5                     70.01;
                                   112.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-188           10.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-501(j)       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-111(a)       Ch. 71, Sch. I
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-111(b)       Ch. 71, Sch. I
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-111(d)       Ch. 71, Sch. I
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-111(e)       Ch. 71, Sch. I
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 16-104          Ch. 71
Ch. 705, Act 105                   31.16
Ch. 705, Act 405                   36.05
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12C-30          113.36
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 26-4            113.36
Ch. 720, Act 175                   33.01
Ch. 725, Act 5, § 107-4(a-3)      31.15
Ch. 725, Act 570                   33.01
Ch. 730, Act 5                     70.01
Ch. 730, Act 5, § 5-9-1           33.07
Ch. 730, Act 195                   36.15
Ch. 735, Act 5, Art. III           36.20
Ch. 735, Act 30                    36.15
Ch. 740, Act 70, §§ 1 et seq.    91.41;
                                   91.42
Ch. 740, Act 174, § 15            38.348
Ch. 760, Act 100                   36.15
Ch. 765, Act 205                   154.005
Ch. 765, Act 205, § 2             152.23
Ch. 775, Act 5, § 6-101           38.348
Ch. 820, Act 130                   36.04
Ch. 820, Act 180                   38.080
Ch. 820, Act 305                   34.04;
                                   34.09
Ch. 820, Act 310                   34.04;
                                   34.09
                                   
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2012 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2012 Code Section
30.01              30.01
30.03              30.02
30.04              30.03
30.05              30.04
30.06              31.01
30.20              30.15
30.21              30.16
31.01              31.02
31.10              31.03
31.20              31.04
33.01              33.01
33.02              33.02
33.03              33.03
33.04              33.04
33.05              33.05
33.06              33.06
33.07              33.07
34.01              31.15
34.02              31.16
34.03              31.17
34.04              31.18
35.01              34.01
35.02              34.02
35.03              34.03
35.04              34.04
35.05              34.05
35.06              34.06
35.07              34.07
35.08              34.08
35.09              34.09
35.10              34.10
35.11              34.11
35.12              34.12
35.13              34.13
35.14              34.14
35.15              34.15
36.01              35.01
36.02              35.02
36.03              35.03
36.04              35.04
36.05              35.05
36.06              35.06
36.07              35.07
36.08              35.08
38.01              37.01
38.02              37.02
38.03              37.03
38.05              37.05
38.06              37.06
38.07              37.07
38.15              35.20
38.16              35.21
38.17              35.22
40.01              32.01
40.02              32.02
40.03              32.03
40.04              32.04
40.05              32.05
40.06              32.99
50.01              50.01
50.14              50.15
50.15              50.16
50.16              50.17
50.17              50.18
50.18              50.19
50.19              50.20
50.20              50.21
50.21              50.22
50.22              50.23
50.23              50.24
50.34              50.35
50.35              50.36
50.36              50.37
50.41              50.38
50.98              50.99
50.99              50.99
50.100             50.02
50.101             50.03
52.01              51.01
52.03              51.03
52.04              51.04
70.01              70.01
70.10              Ch. 71, Sch. I
70.20              Ch. 71, Sch. I
70.30              Ch. 71, Sch. I
70.40              Ch. 71, Sch. I
90.01              90.001
90.15              90.015
90.16              90.016
90.17              90.017
90.18              90.018
90.19              90.019
90.20              90.020
90.21              90.021
90.22              90.022
90.23              90.023
90.35              90.035
90.36              90.036
90.37              90.037
90.38              90.038
90.39              90.039
90.50              90.055
90.51              90.056
90.52              90.057
90.53              90.058
90.65              90.070
90.66              90.071
90.80              90.085
90.83              90.086
90.99              90.999
91.30              91.40
91.31              91.41
91.32              91.42
92.01              91.01
92.02              91.02
92.03              91.03
92.04              91.04
92.05              91.05
92.20              91.20
92.21              91.21
92.22              91.22
92.23              91.23
92.24              91.24
92.25              91.25
92.26              91.26
92.99              91.99
93.01              92.01
93.02              92.02
110.01             110.01
110.15             110.15
110.16             110.16
110.17             110.17
110.18             110.18
110.19             110.19
110.20             110.20
110.21             110.21
110.22             110.22
110.23             110.23
110.24             110.24
110.25             110.25
110.26             110.26
110.27             110.27
110.28             110.28
110.40             110.40
110.41             110.41
110.42             110.42
110.43             110.43
110.44             110.44
110.55             110.45
110.99             110.99
150.01             151.01
150.02             151.02
150.15             151.15
151.01             154.001
151.02             154.002
151.03             154.003
151.04             154.004
151.05             154.005
151.15             154.020
151.16             154.021
151.17             154.022
151.18             154.023
151.19             154.035
151.20             154.036
151.21             154.037
151.22             154.038
151.23             154.039
151.35             154.050
151.36             154.051
151.37             154.052
151.38             154.053
151.39             154.054
151.40             154.055
151.41             154.056
151.42             154.057
151.43             154.058
151.44             154.059
151.45             154.060
151.46             154.061
151.47             154.062
151.48             154.063
151.49             154.064
151.50             154.065
151.60             154.080
151.61             154.081
151.62             154.082
151.63             154.083
151.99             154.999
152.001            155.001
152.002            155.002
152.003            155.003
152.004            155.004
152.005            155.005
152.006            155.006
152.007            155.007
152.008            155.008
152.009            155.009
152.010            155.010
152.011            155.011
152.025            155.025
152.026            155.026
152.027            155.027
152.028            155.028
152.040            155.040
152.041            155.041
152.042            155.042
152.043            155.043
152.044            155.044
152.045            155.045
152.046            155.046
152.047            155.047
152.048            155.048
152.049            155.049
152.050            155.050
152.051            155.051
152.052            155.052
152.053            155.053
152.065            155.065
152.075            155.080
152.076            155.081
152.077            155.082
152.078            155.083
152.079            155.084
152.080            155.085
152.081            155.086
152.082            155.087
152.083            155.088
152.084            155.089
152.085            155.090
152.086            155.091
152.087            155.092
152.088            155.093
152.089            155.094
152.090            155.095
152.091            155.096
152.092            155.097
152.093            155.098
152.105            155.110
152.106            155.111
152.107            155.112
152.108            155.113
152.120            155.125
152.121            155.126
152.122            155.127
152.123            155.128
152.124            155.129
152.125            155.130
152.126            155.131
152.127            155.132
152.999            155.999
153.01             156.01
153.02             156.02
153.03             156.03
153.04             156.04
153.20             156.20
153.21             156.21
153.22             156.22
153.23             156.23
153.24             156.24
153.25             156.25
153.26             156.26
153.27             156.27
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.   Date Passed Code Section
-          4-18-1933   35.07
-          9-11-1962   35.07
-          6-27-1966   31.04
-          2-14-1967   31.16
-          7-11-1969   35.07
-          6-14-1971   30.01;
                       30.02
-          3-13-1973   92.01
-          10-9-1973   151.02
-          2-11-1974   33.02
                       154.022;
-          7-11-1978   154.023;
                       154.051
-          6-9-1981    30.01
-          10-29-1981  70.01
-          10-12-1982  30.04
-          10-13-1983  31.03;
                       151.15
-          7-12-1984   37.01
-          10-11-1984  37.01
-          10-16-1986  33.01;
                       70.01
                       156.01—
-          3-16-1989   156.04;
                       156.20—
                       156.27
-          5-11-1989   151.01
-          11-16-1989  33.01
-          7-12-1990   37.02
-          1-17-1991   31.15
-          5-16-1991   30.01
-          11-34-1991  33.01
-          12-12-1991  156.03;
                       156.26
-          4-16-1992   33.05
-          9-16-1993   31.15
                       33.05;
-          11-11-1993  33.06;
                       70.01
-          2-17-1994   151.15
-          3-17-1994   37.02
-          5-12-1994   154.023
-          5-16-1996   33.03
-          10-16-1997  31.02
-          2-12-1998   156.02
-          3-12-1998   30.15
                       30.01—
-          10-15-1998  30.03;
                       30.15;
                       31.01
-          12-17-1998  31.01;
                       156.03
                       156.02—
                       156.04;
-          10-14-1999  156.20;
                       156.22—
                       156.24
-          2-15-2001   30.15
-          4-12-2001   30.01
-          9-13-2001   30.02;
                       30.03
-          4-24-2003   31.01
                       32.01—
-          5-20-2004   32.05;
                       32.99
                       154.055;
-          2-24-2005   154.062—
                       154.064
                       30.01;
-          12-4-2006   30.02;
                       31.01
08-01      1-24-2008   33.06
08-02      1-24-2008   33.07
-          12-1-2008   31.01
-          5-19-2011   30.01
2011-5A    9-22-2011   30.17
-          2-19-2015   30.17
-          2-19-2015   30.18
15-7       3-19-2015   35.20
-          4-23-2015   38.191
2015-08    8-20-2015   35.23
2015-09    9-24-2015   36.30
2015-10    9-24-2015   33.03
2015-10(A) 10-22-2015  33.03
2015-11    9-24-2015   38.131;
                       38.132
2015-12    11-23-2015  36.31
                       90.038;
-          12-17-2015  90.086;
                       90.087
2016-01    1-21-2016   155.096
                       90.038;
2016-02    1-21-2016   90.086;
                       90.087
-          12-5-2016   30.01
2016-08    12-22-2016  31.15
2016-10    12-22-2016  38.265—
                       38.271
2017-02    2-23-2017   38.062;
                       38.075
2017-04    3-23-2017   38.075
2017-05    5-18-2017   90.035
2017-08    7-20-2017   38.046
2017-14    11-16-2017  155.127;
                       155.128
2017-14A   12-21-2017  38.345—
                       38.349
2017-15    11-16-2017  38.061;
                       38.063
2018-02    4-19-2018   153.11
2018-03    2-22-2018   33.08
2018-03A   4-19-2018   153.27
2018-04    4-19-2018   153.30
2018-06    7-19-2018   33.03
2018-08    8-22-2018   153.25
2018-14    8-23-2018   155.127;
                       155.128
2018-15    9-20-2018   33.05
2018-17    12-20-2018  33.03
2019-01    3-21-2019   157.01—
                       157.12
2019-03    3-21-2019   38.380
                       33.03,
-          6-20-2019   33.05,
                       33.06
2019-05    12-19-2019  38.345—
                       38.351
2020-02    1-23-2020   37.02
2021-01    1-21-2021   153.25
2021-02    1-21-2021   153.27
2021-03    1-21-2021   153.28
2021-04    1-21-2021   153.25
2021-05    1-21-2021   153.09
2021-06    1-21-2021   153.25
2021-08    5-20-2021   30.02,
                       30.03
2021-10    10-28-2021  30.01
2022-07    11-23-2022  38.078
23-8       4-20-2023   90.090,
                       90.091
                       153.01—
23-9       5-18-2023   153.12,
                       153.25—
                       153.30
23-10      5-18-2023   157.01—
                       157.12
                       90.038,
23-11      5-18-2023   90.086,
                       90.087
23-12      7-20-2023   38.040
23-14      11-28-2023  38.040,
                       38.061
                       38.385—
23-16      12-21-2023  38.388,
                       Ch. 38, App. A
24-7       8-22-2024   38.040
24-9       11-21-2024  30.16,
                       31.01
                      
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         90.040
-        - -         TSO Table I
-        3-14-1972   35.05
                     154.001;
                     154.002;
                     154.004;
                     154.005;
                     154.020—
                     154.023;
-        9-10-1973   154.035—
                     154.039;
                     154.050—
                     154.065;
                     154.080—
                     154.083;
                     154.999
-        9-10-1974   35.01
                     155.001—
                     155.011;
                     155.025—
                     155.028;
                     155.040—
                     155.053;
-        3-9-1976    155.065;
                     155.080—
                     155.098;
                     155.110—
                     155.113;
                     155.125—
                     155.132;
                     155.999
-        7-11-1978   91.01—
                     91.05
-        6-12-1979   35.03
                     50.01;
                     50.16—
                     50.24;
                     50.36;
-        2-11-1980   50.37;
                     50.99;
                     91.20—
                     91.26;
                     91.99
-        4-14-1981   155.003
-        3-9-1982    Ch. 71, Sch. I
-        5-11-1982   155.053
-        1-16-1986   35.04
-        6-12-1986   155.129—
                     155.131
-        9-15-1988   35.22
-        3-16-1989   34.01—
                     34.15
-        7-13-1989   51.01—
                     51.04
-        8-17-1989   155.005
                     110.01;
                     110.15—
                     110.28;
                     110.40;
                     110.41;
                     110.43—
-        9-14-1989   110.45;
                     110.99;
                     155.005;
                     155.052;
                     155.053;
                     155.096;
                     155.125;
                     155.129
-        4-12-1990   154.023
                     155.008;
-        7-12-1990   155.053;
                     155.131
                     30.16;
                     90.001;
                     90.015—
                     90.019;
                     90.021—
                     90.023;
-        1-17-1991   90.036—
                     90.039;
                     90.055—
                     90.058;
                     90.070;
                     90.071;
                     90.085;
                     90.999
-        3- -1991    34.30—
                     34.35
-        5-16-1991   90.038
-        11-13-1991  90.086
-        1-16-1992   Ch. 71, Sch. I
-        2-13-1992   33.04
                     155.005;
                     155.008;
-        6-11-1992   155.053;
                     155.095;
                     155.111
-        8-13-1992   155.126
                     155.126;
-        11-12-1992  155.127;
                     155.129;
                     155.130
-        7-15-1993   34.30—
                     34.35
-        4-14-1994   91.40—
                     91.42
-        5-12-1994   154.005;
                     154.063
-        3-16-1995   31.18
                     155.005;
-        7-13-1995   155.053;
                     155.098
-        8-17-1995   155.005
                     155.005;
-        9-14-1995   155.065;
                     155.096
-        12-14-1995  155.096
-        2-13-1997   30.16
-        9-11-1997   155.081;
                     155.126
                     90.019;
-        11-13-1997  90.038;
                     90.086
-        4-16-1998   90.086
                     50.01—
                     50.03;
                     50.15;
                     50.17;
                     50.18;
                     50.20;
-        5-13-1999   50.21;
                     50.23;
                     50.24;
                     50.35;
                     50.37;
                     50.38;
                     50.99
                     50.17;
-        9-22-1999   50.21;
                     50.24;
                     50.99
-        7-1-2000    155.005
-        11-15-2001  155.095
-        12-12-2002  Ch. 71, Sch. I
03-002   6-19-2003   39.01
                     112.01—
03-003   6-19-2003   112.06;
                     112.99
                     113.01;
                     113.02;
                     113.15—
04-002   2-19-2004   113.22;
                     113.35—
                     113.38;
                     113.99
-        2-24-2005   154.054;
                     154.081
-        3-24-2005   110.40
-        12-4-2006   30.16
-        1-18-2007   Ch. 71, Sch. I
07-10    4-19-2007   150.01—
                     150.13
-        6-21-2007   90.019;
                     90.038
                     152.01—
                     152.08;
07-18    10-18-2007  152.20—
                     152.25;
                     152.99
                     53.01—
                     53.08;
                     53.20—
-        9-18-2008   53.27;
                     53.40—
                     53.44;
                     53.99
-        3-19-2009   35.20
                     153.01—
                     153.10;
-        4-23-2009   153.12;
                     153.25—
                     153.30
                     111.001—
                     111.006;
                     111.020—
                     111.025;
-        6-18-2009   111.040—
                     111.044;
                     111.090—
                     111.092;
                     111.999
-        9-24-2009   155.127
-        11-19-2009  Ch. 71, Sch. I
-        9-23-2010   34.30—
                     34.35
-        7-21-2011   155.126
                     38.001—
                     38.003;
                     38.015—
                     38.021;
                     38.035—
                     38.045;
                     38.060—
                     38.064;
                     38.075—
                     38.080;
                     38.095—
                     38.097;
                     38.110—
                     38.113;
                     38.125—
                     38.133;
                     38.145—
                     38.149;
                     38.160;
                     38.161;
-        11-28-2011  38.175;
                     38.190—
                     38.192;
                     38.205—
                     38.207;
                     38.220;
                     38.235—
                     38.239;
                     38.250—
                     38.252;
                     38.265—
                     38.273;
                     38.285—
                     38.289;
                     38.300—
                     38.305;
                     38.320;
                     38.321;
                     38.335;
                     38.336;
                     Ch. 38, App. A
                     155.005 
                     155.053;
-        8-30-2012   155.065;
                     155.093;
                     155.095
-        12-6-2012   30.05 
-        2-20-2014   30.06
-        7-10-2014   32.038;
                     32.190
                     155.005;
-        7-10-2014   155.053;
                     155.081
-        5-21-2015   51.02
                     52.001—
                     52.004;
                     52.015;
                     52.016;
                     52.030—
                     52.037;
                     52.050—
                     52.052;
-        11-19-2015  52.065—
                     52.067;
                     52.080;
                     52.095;
                     52.110;
                     52.125—
                     52.128;
                     52.140—
                     52.144;
                     52.999
                     153.10;
-        4-20-2017   153.25;
                     153.27;
                     155.126
                     111.001—
                     111.006;
                     111.020—
                     111.025;
                     111.040—
                     111.045;
-        5-30-2018   111.060—
                     111.063;
                     111.075—
                     111.077;
                     111.090—
                     111.092;
                     111.999
-        3-24-2022   155.065;
                     155.130
-        4-21-2022   155.053
-        4-21-2022   157.01—
                     157.12
-        8-24-2023   155.053
-        11-28-2023  157.01—
                     157.16
-        2-22-2024   157.08
                    
 
 
