VILLAGE OF DIAMOND, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-16 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-23, passed 12-10-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588
www.amlegal.com
VILLAGE OFFICIALS
 
VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Mayor         Teresa Kernc
Village Clerk Lori Holmes
Treasurer     Wendy Herbert
Law Director  Tracy, Johnson and Wilson
Police Chief  Grundy and Will County Sheriff
Fire Chief    Coal City Fire Protection District
 
 
VILLAGE COMMISSIONERS
Mark Adair           Public Health, Safety and parks@villageofdiamond.org
                     Parks
Jeff Kasher          Streets and Alleys        streets@villageofdiamond.org
David Warner         Water                     water@villageofdiamond.org
Addis "Dean" Johnson Finance                   finance@villageofdiamond.org 
 
 
CONTACT INFORMATION
Municipal Address: 1750 E. Division Street
                  Diamond, IL 60416
Phone Number:      815-634-8149
Fax:               815-634-3149
 
E-MAIL ADDRESSES OF VILLAGE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Teresa Kernc  mayor@villageofdiamond.org
Lori Holmes   clerk@villageofdiamond.org
Cindy Haywood planning@villageofdiamond.org
Wendy Herbert treasurer@villageofdiamond.org
Maintenance   maintenance@villageofdiamond.org
              
Village of Diamond Website: www.villageofdiamond.org
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2007-21
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE VILLAGE OF DIAMOND,
ILLINOIS, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN
EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS
EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Village of
Diamond are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form
and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the Village of Diamond and for the proper conduct of its
affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Illinois Municipal Code empowers and authorizes the Village of
Diamond to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile any existing ordinances
and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate
such ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Village of Diamond has authorized
a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the
Village of Diamond of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
Village of Diamond and for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
health, safety, and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance
take effect at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF
THE VILLAGE OF DIAMOND, GRUNDY AND WILL COUNTY, ILLINOIS, THAT:
   Section 1. The foregoing recitals are hereby incorporated into this
ordinance as if fully set forth herein.
   Section 2. The general ordinances of the Village of Diamond as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the Village of Diamond,
Illinois.”
   Section 3. Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 2 shall consist of
the following Titles:
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
   INDEX
   Section 4. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
   Section 5. Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Village of Diamond and the Village Clerk of the Village of
Diamond is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code or
Ordinances in the Office of the Village Clerk.
   Section 6. Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in
Section 7, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places
of the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations
therein contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly
signed, attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and
notices thereof as required by law have been given.
   Section 7. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage and approval.
   PASSED this 11th day of September, 2007, with 5 members voting aye, -0-
members voting nay, and -0- abstaining or passing, and said vote being:
   Robert Blatter       Aye          David Warner       Aye
   Donna Scholtes    Aye          Michael Ramme    Aye
   Theresa Kernc       Aye
   Approved this 11th day of September, 2007.
    /S/
   Michael Ramme, Mayor
   Attest:    /S/
      Tami Zingre, Village Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 2009-14
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE VILLAGE OF DIAMOND, ILLINOIS, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2009 supplement of the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois Code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Illinois;
and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF DIAMOND:
Section 1.   That the 2009 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Political Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the office
of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision on
the 8th day of September, 2009.
/S/              /S/
Mayor Teresa Kernc                  Tami Zingre, Clerk
ORDINANCE #2012-28
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE VILLAGE OF DIAMOND, ILLINOIS, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2009 supplement of the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois Code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Illinois;
and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF DIAMOND:
Section 1.   That the 2012 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Political Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the office
of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
Section 5: Effective Date- This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect
from and after its passage and approval.
PASSED this 10th day of July 2012, with 3 members voting aye, -0- voting nay,
with 2 members absent, abstaining or passing, and said vote being:
 
Carla Youngquist Absent David Warner Aye
Donna Scholtes   Absent Teresa Kernc Aye
Jeff Kasher      Aye
 
   Approved this 10th day of July, 2012.
                        Teresa Kernc /s/
                         Teresa Kernc, Mayor
 
                        Attest:   Tami Zingre /s/
                        Tami Zingre, Village Clerk
ORDINANCE #2017-20
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE VILLAGE OF DIAMOND, ILLINOIS
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2017 S-9 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
Political Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the IL code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of IL; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE VILLAGE OF DIAMOND:
Section 1.    That the 2017 S-9 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Political Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision on
October 10, 2017 with 4 members voting aye, 0 voting nay, with 1 member absent,
abstaining or passing and said vote being:
 
Mark Adair      AYE         David Warner         ABSENT
Jeff Kasher      AYE         Carolyn Wilson      AYE
Teresa Kernc      AYE
 
ATTEST:
/s/ Teresa Kernc                /s/ Lori Holmes
Teresa Kernc, Mayor               Lori Holmes, Village Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 2019-25
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE VILLAGE OF DIAMOND, ILLINOIS
   WHEREAS, the Village of Diamond, Grundy and Will Counties, Illinois (the
“Village”) is an Illinois non-home rule municipal corporation, organized and
operating pursuant to the Constitution and laws of the State of Illinois; and
   WHEREAS, the Mayor and Board of Commissioners of the Village of Diamond have
the authority to adopt ordinances and to promulgate rules and regulations that
pertain to its government and affairs and protect the public health, safety,
and welfare of its citizens; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2019 S-11 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Diamond, Illinois, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village;
and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois Compiled Statutes; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Board of Commissioners to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Illinois; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
Village and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the Village that this ordinance take effect at an early
date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF
THE VILLAGE OF DIAMOND, GRUNDY AND WILL COUNTY, ILLINOIS, THAT:
   Section 1:    Recitals - The foregoing recitals are hereby incorporated into
this Ordinance as if fully set forth herein.
   Section 2:   Enactment - The 2019 S-11 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of the Village of Diamond, Illinois, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto be and the same is
hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety. Said supplement
shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and approval by the
Board of Commissioners and the Village Clerk is hereby authorized to insert
said supplement into the Village Code of Ordinances.
   Section 3:   Severability - The various portions of this Ordinance are
hereby expressly declared to be severable, and the invalidity of any such
portion of this Ordinance shall not affect the validity of any other portion of
this Ordinance, which shall be enforced to the fullest extent possible.
   Section 4:   Repealer - All Ordinances or portions of Ordinances previously
passed or adopted by the Village of Diamond that conflict with or are
inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance are hereby repealed.
   Section 5:   Effective Date - This Ordinance shall be in full force and
effect from and after its passage and approval.
   PASSED this 26th day of November, 2019, with  5  members voting aye,  0
voting nay, with  0  members absent, abstaining or passing and said vote being:
   Mark Adair      AYE         David Warner      AYE
   Jeff Kasher      AYE         Teresa Kernc      AYE   
                           Denise Brown      AYE
   Approved this 26th day of November, 2019.
                                    /s/ Teresa Kernc
                                    Teresa Kernc, Mayor
                                    Attest: /s/ Lori Holmes
                                    Lori Holmes, Village Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the Village of Diamond shall be designated as
the code of Diamond and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   COMMISSION or VILLAGE COMMISSION. The Commission of the village.
   COUNTY. Will and/or Grundy Counties, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Will and/or Grundy Counties, Illinois.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.07)
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.  
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of the officer, either
generally or in special cases.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.08)
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER.  HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution, or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at
any time after that date.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD, or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of this state, or of any town or county of this state, and
all bridges thereupon.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the Village of Diamond.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.12)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures, and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the Village
of Diamond. POLICE FORCE shall be construed to include such persons in the
employ of a village as members of the Department of Police, who are or shall
hereafter be appointed and sworn as police officers.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.20)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, county, state, or federal governments, officers and agencies thereof,
or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized public
official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares, and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The village code hereby adopted, and
as hereinafter modified by amendment, revision, and by the adoption of new
titles, chapters, or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in § 1 of Article VII of
the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.28)
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Diamond.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents, and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic, and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law, it
shall be (1) the proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark, or (2) an electronic signature as
defined in the Electronic Commerce Security Act, ILCS Ch. 5, Act 175, §§ 1-101
et seq., except as otherwise provided by law.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord.”
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only, and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.03)
      (2)   Words of 1 gender shall include the other genders.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday, or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday
or Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to 3 or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the Mayor and
Village Commission may be fully carried out.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, in so far as they are the same as
those of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 2)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the village shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The re-enactment, amendment, or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) of this section:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation, or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded, or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; and/or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding, or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding, or remedy may be instituted, continued, or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for any offense is reduced
by a re-enactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in 1 section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context
clearly indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was
not intended.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of these
codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
bearing the latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions
bear the same passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be
consistent with the meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject
matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections, and subsections, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are re-adopted as a new code of ordinances by
the Village Commission.
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. The references
shall also include the designee or agent of any such officer or office, unless
the law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
word or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the
intention of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no
meaning can be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or
words was clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be
corrected, and the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will
conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same
effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as originally
published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming, or vacating streets, alleys, or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the village; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the Village
Commission or a certain village officer or employee to make additional
regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
regulations of a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the
codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are
saved.
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   (A)   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to such technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the village.
   (B)   Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Am. Ord. 25, passed
1-1-1985)
   (B)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text of the
section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-2-1) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Am. Ord.
20, passed 1-1-1985). An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to
that statute for further information. Example:
   § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      The village shall make available to any person for inspection or copying
all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information Act.
   Statutory reference:
      Freedom of Information Act, see ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, §§ 1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this code or other ordinance of this
village, for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be fined
not more than $750 for each and every violation thereof, and every day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5, § 1-2-1.1
   Limitations on penalties, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   VILLAGE COMMISSION AND OFFICIALS
      
31.   VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   FINANCE; REVENUE; TAXATION
      
33.   VILLAGE POLICIES
      
34.   EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK
CHAPTER 30: VILLAGE COMMISSION AND OFFICIALS
Section
Village Commission
   
30.01   Meetings
   
30.02   Compensation
Village Officials
   
30.15   Village Attorney; Assistants to the Village Attorney; Village Engineer
   
30.16   Emergency Services and Disaster Response Coordinator
Ethics Gift Ban
   
30.25   Definitions
   
30.26   Gift ban
   
30.27   Exceptions
   
30.28   Attendance at events
   
30.29   Disposition of gifts
   
30.30   Reimbursement
Prohibited Interest in Contracts
   
30.35   Prohibited interest in contracts supported by federal grant funds
Emergency Response
   
30.45   Emergency response
   
30.46   Emergency powers of the Mayor
 
   
30.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Village Organizations, see
Ch. 31
VILLAGE COMMISSION
§ 30.01 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Commission of the Village of Diamond, Illinois, shall meet on the
second and fourth Tuesday evenings of each month at the hour of 6:00 p.m.,
provided, however, that should the Tuesday fall on a legal holiday, then the
meeting so falling upon the legal holiday shall be held on the Tuesday
subsequent to the holiday.
   (B)   This section shall be in full force and effect on and after its
passage, approval, and filing for record according to law.
(Ord. passed 6- -1953)
§ 30.02 COMPENSATION.
   The village’s compensation provisions for the Village Mayor and Village
Commissioners are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set
out in full.
(Ord. 2004-13, passed 6-8-2004)
VILLAGE OFFICIALS
§ 30.15 VILLAGE ATTORNEY; ASSISTANTS TO THE VILLAGE ATTORNEY; VILLAGE ENGINEER.
   (A)   Incorporation of recitals. The recitals in Ordinance 2004-11 are
incorporated herein as if fully set forth in this division (A).
   (B)   Creation of the Offices of Village Attorney and Assistants to the
Village Attorney.
      (1)   Creation. There is hereby created the Office of Village Attorney.
The Attorney shall be appointed by the Mayor as provided by law, by and with
the advice and consent of the Village Commission.
      (2)   Term. The Village Attorney shall hold his or her office for a term
as provided by law. The term of the Village Attorney shall run from the date of
appointment until the end of the term of the Mayor during which the appointment
was made and consented to by the Commission or until the time as the Mayor
removes the Village Attorney as provided by law. The Village Attorney shall
continue to serve his or her responsibilities until the time as his or her
successor is appointed and qualified.
      (3)   Responsibilities of the Village Attorney.
         (a)   Suits and actions. The Village Attorney, if so designated by the
Mayor, shall prosecute or defend any and all suits or actions at law or in
equity to which the village may be a party, or in which it may be interested,
or which may be brought against or by any officer of the village on behalf of
the village or in the capacity of such person as an officer of the village.
      (4)   Assistant Village Attorneys. There are hereby created 2 additional
Offices of Assistant Village Attorney. The village may employ or engage
Assistant Village Attorneys or may authorize the Village Attorney to employ or
engage additional counsel to aid the village in its affairs whenever they deem
it necessary or expedient. Appointment to the Office of Assistant Village
Attorney and any Assistant Village Attorney’s service shall proceed as set
forth in relation to the Village Attorney and may reach the areas of
responsibility set forth above as work is or may be delegated by the
appropriate village official or staff.
      (5)   Appointment; delegation. The appointment of an attorney to the
position of Village Attorney or Assistant Village Attorney shall require the
qualification of an individual. The appointee to the position may delegate work
within any law firm of which he or she is a part.
      (6)   Compensation. The measure and manner of compensation for the
Village Attorney and the Assistant Village Attorney shall be established by
resolution or ordinance and shall be subject to change at any time by
resolution or ordinance.
      (7)   Contracting. Nothing in this section prevents the village from
contracting with other attorneys for the purpose of carrying on its
governmental functions.
   (C)   Creation of the Office of Village Engineer.
      (1)   Creation. There is hereby created the Office of Village Engineer.
The Village Engineer shall be appointed by the Mayor as provided by law, by and
with the advice and consent of the Village Commission.
      (2)   Term. The Village Engineer shall hold his or her office for a term
as provided by law. The term of the Village Engineer shall run from the date of
appointment until the end of the term of the Mayor during which the appointment
was made and consented to by the Commission or until the time as the Mayor
removes the Village Engineer as provided by law. The Village Engineer shall
continue to serve his or her responsibilities until the time as his or her
successor is appointed and qualified.
      (3)   Responsibilities of the Village Engineer.
         (a)   Suits and actions. The Village Engineer, if so designated by the
Village Attorney or Mayor, shall serve as a witness, expert, or non-legal
assistant in relation to suits and actions which may relate to the village,
including but not limited to responses to communications or notices from
government agencies.
         (b)   Application of codes. It shall be the duty of the Village
Engineer to see to the full enforcement of all codes relating to water and
sanitary sewer service, subdivisions, zoning matters pertaining to engineering
concerns, permitting of village operations, and other engineering matters as
delegated to the Village Engineer.
         (c)   Advice. The Village Engineer shall be village’s reviewing
consultant pertaining to planning matters delegated to him or her and shall
render advice on all engineering questions affecting the village, whenever
requested to do so by the Mayor, Village Clerk, Village Commission or code
enforcement official or other officer of the village. Upon specific request by
any of the aforementioned, he or she shall reduce the opinion to writing,
provided that the rendering of the written opinion is professionally advisable.
The chair of any committee, board, or commission of the village may also
request the answer to a specific engineering question but the request shall be
in writing signed by the chair. The Village Engineer shall provide opinions on
engineering issues and questions orally and in writing to the extent deemed
appropriate by the Village Engineer. If the Village Engineer responds to a
question by a chair of a committee, board, or commission, the response shall be
to the entire committee, board, or commission or in writing to the chair copied
to the Mayor and the other members of the committee, board, or commission. The
Village Engineer may render any advice requested of the Village Engineer if the
request is made according to ordinance, resolution, or motion of the corporate
authorities or federal or state law.
         (d)   Representation before the Planning and Zoning Commission or
Zoning Board of Appeals. The Village Engineer may, as directed by the Mayor,
represent the village’s interests before the Planning and Zoning Commission or
the Zoning Board of Appeals in all hearings and meetings within their charge
under village ordinances, provided that the Village Engineer shall not
represent the Planning and Zoning Commission or the Zoning Board of Appeals.
The Village Engineer shall solely represent the village in matters in which the
village is an applicant for relief.
      (4)   Appointment; delegation. The appointment of an engineer to the
position of Village Engineer shall require the qualification of an individual.
The appointee to the position may delegate work within any firm or entity of
which he or she is a part.
      (5)   Compensation. The measure and manner of compensation for the
Village Engineer shall be established by resolution or ordinance and shall be
subject to change at any time by resolution or ordinance.
      (6)   Contracting. Nothing in this section prevents the village from
contracting with other engineers for the purpose of carrying on its
governmental functions.
   (D)   Temporary appointments. The Mayor may temporarily appoint attorneys
and engineers to serve the village or any 1 of its committees, boards, or
commissions. The Mayor shall report the temporary appointment at a public
meeting not later than 45 days following the appointment. Notation of the
appointment of the temporary professionals and their compensation by the
village shall be made in the minutes.
   (E)   Effectiveness. This section shall be in full force and effect from and
after its passage, approval, and publication in pamphlet form (and otherwise as
required by law) as provided in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-4.
   (F)   Publication. In accord with ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 4-5-13, this section
has remained on file in its final form for the minimum required period prior to
passage in a location within the Village Hall and outside the Clerk’s office
for public viewing. The Deputy Village Clerk is hereby authorized to publish
this section in book or pamphlet form or the other form which is permitted or
required pursuant to applicable law.
(Ord. 2004-11, passed 4-27-2004)
§ 30.16 EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER RESPONSE COORDINATOR.
   (A)   There is hereby created the position of Emergency Services and
Disaster Response Coordinator (“Coordinator”). This person shall be appointed
by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Village Commission.
   (B)   The Coordinator shall serve under the direction of the Mayor and shall
be paid wages in the amount of $20 per hour.
   (C)   The term of office for the Coordinator shall be for a period of 1 year
from the date of appointment.
   (D)   The job duties of the Coordinator shall include coordinating the
activities of emergency response agencies and village employees, providing
information and education to the community and public employees in preparation
for emergencies or natural disasters, and any other duties as the Mayor shall
deem in the best interest of the residents of the village for the purpose of
abating injury or loss of life during emergencies or natural disasters.
   (E)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and approval as provided by law and shall be published in pamphlet
form.
(Ord. 2004-10, passed 3-9-2004)
ETHICS GIFT BAN
§ 30.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE. All full-time, part-time, and contractual employees, appointed and
elected officials, and directors of a governmental entity.
   GIFT. Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance,
or other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an employee, member, or officer.
   GOVERNMENT ENTITY. Each office, board, commission, agency, department,
authority, institution, body politic and corporate and administrative unit.
   MEMBER. Any member of the Village Board.
   OFFICER. Any person duly elected by the voters of village.
   POLITICAL ORGANIZATION. A party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) organized and operated primarily for
the purpose of directly or indirectly accepting contributions or making
expenditures, or both, for the function of influencing or attempting to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the election of Presidential or Vice-Presidential electors,
whether or not the individual or electors are selected, nominated, elected, or
appointed. The term includes the making of expenditures relating to an office
described in the preceding sentence that, if incurred by the individual, would
be allowable as a federal income tax deduction for trade or business expenses.
   PROHIBITED SOURCE. Any person or entity who:
      (1)   Is seeking official action by the member or officer or in the case
of an employee, by the employee or by the member, officer, governmental entity,
or other employee directing the employee;
      (2)   Does business or seeks to do business with the member or office or
in the case of an employee, with the employee or with the member, officer,
governmental entity, or other employee directing the employee;
      (3)   Conducts activities regulated by the member or officer or in the
case of an employee, by the employee or by the member, officer, governmental
entity, or other employee directing the employee;
      (4)   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance
or non-performance of the official duties of the member, officer, or employee.
(Ord. M99-1, passed 7-13-1999)
§ 30.26 GIFT BAN.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no member, officer or employee
shall solicit or accept any gift from any prohibited source or in violation of
any federal or state statute, rule, or regulation. This ban applies to and
includes spouses of and immediate family living with the member, officer or
employee. No prohibited source shall offer or make a gift that violates this
section.
(Ord. M99-1, passed 7-13-1999) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.27 EXCEPTIONS.
   The restriction in §
30.26 does not apply to the following:
   (A)   Anything for which the member, officer or employee pays the market
value or anything not used and promptly disposed of as provided in §
30.29.
   (B)   A contribution, as defined in Article 9 of the Election Code that is
lawfully made under that Act or attendance at a fundraising event sponsored by
a political organization.
   (C)   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the individual
as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, great aunt,
great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife, grandfather,
grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law,
daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother,
stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half sister, and
including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the individual's
spouse and the individual's fiancé or fiancee.
   (D)   (1)   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the member, officer or employee, has reason to believe that,
under the circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position
or employment of the member, officer or employee, and not because of the
personal friendship.
      (2)   In determining whether a gift is provided on the basis of personal
friendship, the member, officer or employee, shall consider the circumstances
under which the gift was offered, such as:
         (a)   The history of the relationship between the individual giving
the gift and the recipient of the gift, including any previous exchange of
gifts between those individuals;
         (b)   Whether to the actual knowledge of the member, officer or
employee, the individual who gave the gift personally paid for the gift or
sought a tax deduction or business reimbursement for the gift; and
         (c)   Whether to the actual knowledge of the member, officer or
employee, the individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same
or similar gifts to other members, officers or employees.
   (E)   A commercially reasonable loan evidenced in writing with repayment due
by a date certain made in the ordinary course of the lender's business.
   (F)   A contribution or other payments to a legal defense fund established
for the benefit of a member, officer or employee, that is otherwise lawfully
made.
   (G)   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits:
      (1)   Resulting from the outside business or employment activities (or
outside activities that are not connected to the duties of the member, officer
or employee, as an office holder or employee) of the member, officer, employee
or the spouse of the member, officer or employee, if the benefits have not been
offered or enhanced because of the official position or employment of the
member, officer or employee, and are customarily provided to others in similar
circumstances;
      (2)   Customarily provided by a prospective employer in connection with
bona fide employment discussions; or
      (3)   Provided by a political organization in connection with a
fundraising or campaign event sponsored by that organization.
   (H)   Pension and other benefits resulting from continued participation in
an employee welfare and benefits plan maintained by a former employer.
   (I)   Informational materials that are sent to the office of the member,
officer or employee, in the form of books, articles, periodicals, other written
materials, audiotapes, videotapes, or other forms of communication.
   (J)   Awards or prizes that are given to competitors in contests or events
open to the public, including random drawings.
   (K)   Honorary degrees (and associated travel, food, refreshments, and
entertainment provided in the presentation of degrees and awards).
   (L)   Training (including food and refreshments furnished to all attendees
as an integral part of the training) provided to a member, officer or employee,
if the training is in the interest of the governmental entity.
   (M)   Educational missions, including meetings with government officials
either foreign or domestic, intended to educate public officials on matters of
public policy, to which the member, officer or employee, may be invited to
participate along with other federal, state, or local public officials and
community leaders.
   (N)   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
   (O)   Anything that is paid for by the federal government, the state, or a
governmental entity, or secured by the government or governmental entity under
a government contract.
   (P)   A gift of personal hospitality of an individual, including hospitality
extended for a nonbusiness purpose by an individual, not a corporation or
organization, at the personal residence of that individual or the individual's
family or on property or facilities owned by that individual or the
individual's family.
   (Q)   Free attendance at a widely attended event permitted under §
30.28
   (R)   Opportunities and benefits that are:
      (1)   Available to the public or to a class consisting of all employees,
officers or members, whether or not restricted on the basis of geographic
consideration;
      (2)   Offered to members of a group or class in which membership is
unrelated to employment or official position;
      (3)   Offered to members of an organization such as an employee's
association or credit union, in which membership is related to employment or
official position and similar opportunities are available to large segments of
the public through organizations of similar size;
      (4)   Offered to any group or class that is not defined in a manner that
specifically discriminates among government employees on the basis of branch of
government or type of responsibility, or on a basis that favors those of higher
rank or rate of pay;
      (5)   In the form of loans from banks or other financial institutions on
terms generally available to the public; or
      (6)   In the form of reduced membership or other fees for participation
in organization activities offered to all government employees by professional
organizations if the only restrictions on membership relate to professional
qualifications.
   (S)   A plaque, trophy, or other item that is substantially commemorative in
nature and that is extended for presentation.
   (T)   Golf or tennis, food or refreshments of nominal value and catered food
or refreshments; meals or beverages consumed on the premises from which they
were purchased.
   (U)   Donations of products from an Illinois company that are intended
primarily for promotional purposes, such as display or free distribution, and
are of minimal value to any individual recipient.
   (V)   An item of normal value such as a greeting card, baseball cap, or t-
shirt.
(Ord. M99-1, passed 7-13-1999)
§ 30.28 ATTENDANCE AT EVENTS.
   (A)   A member, officer or employee, may accept an offer of free attendance
at a widely attended convention, conference, symposium, forum, panel
discussion, dinner, viewing, reception, or similar event, provided by the
sponsor of the event, if:
      (1)   The member, officer or employee, participates in the event as a
speaker or a panel participant, by presenting information related to
government, or by performing a ceremonial function appropriate to the member's,
officer's or employee's, official position of employment; or
      (2)   Attendance at the event is appropriate to the performance of civic
affairs in the state or the official duties or representative function of the
member, officer or employee.
   (B)   A member, officer or employee who attends an event described in
division (A) may accept a sponsor's unsolicited offer of free attendance at the
event for an accompanying individual.
   (C)   A member, officer or employee or the spouse or dependent thereof, may
accept a sponsor's unsolicited offer of free attendance at a charity event,
except that reimbursement for transportation and lodging may not be accepted in
connection with the event.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, the term “free attendance” may include
waiver of all or part of a conference or other fee, the provision of
transportation, or the provision of food, refreshments, entertainment, and
instructional materials furnished to all attendees as an integral part of the
event. The term does not include entertainment collateral to the event, nor
does it include food or refreshments taken other than in a group setting with
all or substantially all other attendees, except as authorized under §
30.27(U).
(Ord. M99-1, passed 7-13-1999)
§ 30.29 DISPOSITION OF GIFTS.
   The recipient of a gift that is given in violation of this subchapter may,
at his or her discretion, return the item to the donor or give the item or an
amount equal to its value to an appropriate charity.
(Ord. M99-1, passed 7-13-1999)
§ 30.30 REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   A reimbursement (including payment in kind) to a member, officer or
employee, from a private source for necessary transportation, lodging, and
related expenses for travel to a meeting, speaking engagement, fact finding
trip, or similar event in connection with the duties of the member, officer or
employee, as an office holder or employee shall be deemed to be a reimbursement
to the governmental entity and not a gift prohibited by this subchapter if the
member, officer or employee.
   (B)   For purposes of division (A) events, the activities of which are
substantially recreational in nature, shall not be considered to be in
connection with the duties of a member, officer or employee, as an office
holder of employee.
   (C)   Each advance authorization to accept reimbursement shall be signed by
a member or officer or other employee under whose direct supervision the
employee works and shall include:
      (1)   The name of the employee;
      (2)   The name of the person who will make the reimbursement;
      (3)   The time, place, and purpose of the travel; and
      (4)   A determination that the travel is in connection with the duties of
the employee as an employee and would not create the appearance that the
employee is using public employment for private gain.
   (D)   Each disclosure made under division (A) of expenses reimbursed or to
be reimbursed shall be signed by the member or officer (in the case of the
travel by the member or officer) or by the member, officer or other employee
under whose direct supervision the employee works (in the case of travel by an
employee) and shall include:
      (1)   A good faith estimate of total transportation expenses reimbursed
or to be reimbursed;
      (2)   A good faith estimate of total lodging expenses reimbursed or to be
reimbursed;
      (3)   A good faith estimate of total meal expenses reimbursed or to be
reimbursed;
      (4)   A good faith estimate of the total of other expenses reimbursed or
to be reimbursed; and
      (5)   A determination that all those expenses are necessary
transportation, lodging, and related expenses.
(Ord. M99-1, passed 7-13-1999)
PROHIBITED INTEREST IN CONTRACTS
§ 30.35 PROHIBITED INTEREST IN CONTRACTS SUPPORTED BY FEDERAL GRANT FUNDS
   (A)   No village officer, employee or agent shall participate in the
selection, award or administration of a contract supported by federal funds if
a conflict of interest, real or apparent, would be involved. For purposes of
this section, such a conflict would arise when:
      (1)   The officer, employee or agents;
      (2)   Any member of the officer's, employee's or agent's immediate
family;
      (3)   The officer's, employee's or agent's partner; or
      (4)   An organization that employs, or is about to employ, any of the
above;
has a financial or other interest in the firm selected for award of the
contract.
   (B)   The village officers, employees or agents shall neither solicit nor
accept gratuities, favors or anything of monetary value from contractors,
potential contractors or subcontractors.
   (C)   To the extent permitted by federal, state or local laws or
regulations, violation of these standards may cause penalties, sanctions or
other disciplinary actions to be taken against the village officers, employees
or agents, or the contractors, potential contractors or subcontractors, or
their agents.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 1-24-2012)
EMERGENCY RESPONSE
§ 30.45 EMERGENCY RESPONSE.
   (A)   Definitions. Unless otherwise clearly required by the context, as used
in this section:
      ATTACK. Any attack or series of attacks by an enemy of the United States
causing, or which may cause, substantial damage or injury to civilian property
or persons in the United States in any manner by sabotage or by the use of
bombs, missiles, shellfire, or atomic, radiological, chemical, bacteriological
or biological means or other weapons or processes.
      DISASTER. An occurrence or threat of catastrophic and widespread injury
or loss of life or property resulting from any natural or manmade cause,
including, but not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, epidemic and explosion.
      EMERGENCY INTERIM SUCCESSOR. A person designated pursuant to this
section, in the event the officer is unavailable, to exercise the powers and
discharge the duties of an office until a successor is appointed or elected and
qualified as may be provided by the applicable statutes and/or ordinances or
until the lawful incumbent is able to resume the exercise of the powers and
discharge the duties of the office.
      OFFICE. Includes all offices, the powers and duties of which are defined
by the applicable statutes and/or village ordinances.
      UNAVAILABLE. Either a vacancy in office exists and there is no deputy
authorized to exercise all of the powers and discharge the duties of the
office, or the lawful incumbent of the office (including any deputy exercising
the powers and discharging the duties of an office because of a vacancy) and
his or her duly authorized deputy are absent or unable to exercise the powers
and discharge the duties of the office.
   (B)   Emergency interim successors for officers. Such officers, subject to
such regulations as the Mayor may issue from time to time, shall designate by
title (if feasible) or by named person, emergency interim successors and
specify their order of succession. The officer shall review and revise, as
necessary from time to time, designations made pursuant to this section to
ensure their current status. The officer will designate a sufficient number of
persons so that there will be not less than 3, nor more than 7, deputies or
emergency interim successors or any combination thereof, at any time. In the
event that any officer, or his or her deputy provided for pursuant to law, is
unavailable, the powers of the office shall be exercised and duties shall be
discharged by the designated emergency interim successors in the order
specified. The emergency interim successor shall exercise the powers and
discharge the duties of the office to which designated until such time as a
vacancy which may exist shall be filled in accordance with the constitution or
applicable statutes or ordinances, or until the officer, or his or her deputy
or a preceding emergency interim successor, again becomes available to exercise
the powers and discharge the duties of his or her office.
   (C)   Emergency interim successors of the office of the Mayor. Except as
otherwise designated in writing by the Mayor, the designated emergency interim
successors for the office of the Mayor shall be the following persons in the
order listed who are present in the village and available to serve as such an
emergency interim successor:
      (1)   Finance Commissioner;
      (2)   Health and Safety Commissioner;
      (3)   Water Commissioner;
      (4)   Street Commissioner; and
      (5)   Clerk.
   (D)   Formalities of taking office. At the time of their designation,
emergency interim successors for any office shall take such oath as may be
required for them to exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the office
to which they may succeed. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no
person, as a prerequisite to the exercise of the powers or discharge of the
duties of an office to which he or she succeeds, shall be required to comply
with any other provision of law relative to taking office.
   (E)   Period in which authority may be exercised. Officials authorized to
act pursaunt to this section as emergency interim successors are empowered to
exercise the offices, powers, and discharge the duties of an office as herein
authorized only after an attack upon the United States and during a disaster
within the village. The Board of Commissioners may at any time terminate the
authority of such emergency interim successors to exercise the powers and
discharge the duties of office as herein provided.
   (F)   Removal of designees. Until such time as the persons designated as
emergency interim successors are authorized to exercise the powers and
discharge the duties of an office in accordance with this section, such persons
shall serve in their existing designated capacities at the pleasure of the
designating authority and may be removed or replaced by said designating
authority at any time, with or without cause.
(Ord. 2014-07, passed 8-12-2014)
§ 30.46 EMERGENCY POWERS OF THE MAYOR.
   (A)   Definitions. Unless otherwise clearly required by the context,
whenever any of the following terms are used in this section they shall have
the meaning indicated:
      ATTACK. Any attack or series of attacks by an enemy of the United States
causing, or which may cause, substantial damage or injury to civilian property
or persons in the United States in any manner by sabotage or by the use of
bombs, missiles, shellfire, or atomic, radiological, chemical, bacteriological
or biological means or other weapons or processes.
      CURFEW. A prohibition against any person or persons being present at or
upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway with the exception
of officials of any governmental unit and persons officially designated to duty
with reference to a state of emergency duly declared by executive order
pursuant to this section.
      STATE OF EMERGENCY. An occurrence or threat of widespread or severe
damage, where extraordinary measures must be taken to protect the public
health, safety and welfare from injury or loss of life or property resulting
from any natural or technological cause, including, but not limited to, fire,
flood, earthquake, wind, storm, hazardous material spill or water contamination
requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage, epidemic, air
contamination, blight, extended periods of inclement weather, drought,
infestation, critical shortages of essential fuels and energy, explosion, riot,
attack or hostile military or paramilitary action.
   (B)   State of emergency.
      (1)   Whenever it appears that a state of emergency may exist, any person
with such knowledge shall report the circumstances of the emergency to the
Mayor. The report shall include the nature of the emergency, the geographic
area or areas involved, and the specific response and remedies requested.
      (2)   The Mayor may, based upon the reported circumstances and/or based
upon the Mayor's own investigation or observations, declare a state of
emergency by issuing a written declaration when the Mayor determines that:
         (a)   An occurrence of widespread or severe damage resulting from any
natural or technological cause, including, but not limited to, fire, flood,
earthquake, wind, storm, hazardous material spill or water contamination
requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage, epidemic, air
contamination, blight, extended periods of inclement weather, drought,
infestation, critical shortages of essential fuels and energy, explosion, riot,
attack or hostile military or paramilitary action has occurred or is threatened
to occur; and
         (b)   Where extraordinary measures must be taken to protect the public
health, safety and welfare from injury or loss of life or property.
      (3)   The declaration shall contain a statement signed by the Mayor under
oath, setting forth the following:
         (a)   A description of the occurrence or conditions which exist or are
threatened to exist of which the Mayor determined that a state of emergency
exists;
         (b)   A statement finding that the standards for the determination
that a state of emergency set forth in this section have been met;
         (c)   Facts to substantiate such finding;
         (d)   A description of the nature of the emergency; and
         (e)   Declaration that the state of emergency exists.
      (4)   The statement shall be filed with the Village Clerk as soon as
practicable following the declaration.
   (C)   Emergency powers. The Mayor may exercise, by executive order during
the time that a state of emergency exists, the following extraordinary powers
and authority as may be reasonably necessary to respond to the emergency:
      (1)   Make, amend and rescind all lawful necessary orders, rules and
regulations to carry out the limits of the authority conferred upon the Mayor.
      (2)   Cause to be prepared a comprehensive plan and program for the
emergency operations and management of the village, which plan and program
shall be integrated into and coordinated with the emergency management plans
and programs of the county, state and federal governments whenever possible,
and which plan and program may include:
         (a)   Mitigation of injury and damage caused by emergency;
         (b)   Prompt and effective response to emergency;
         (c)   Emergency relief;
         (d)   Recommendations for zoning, building and other land use
controls, safety measures for securing permanent structures and other
mitigation measures designated to eliminate or reduce the emergency or its
impact; and
         (e)   Authorization and procedures for the erection or other
construction of temporary works designed to mitigate danger, damage or loss
during the emergency.
      (3)   Activate the emergency operations and management plan and be the
authority for the deployment and use of any forces that the plan or plans apply
and for use or distribution of any supplies, equipment and materials and
facilities assembled, stockpiled or arranged to be made available under this
section or act as any other provision of law relating to disasters or civil
emergencies.
      (4)   Mobilize and utilize all available resources of the government as
reasonably necessary to cope with the emergency.
      (5)   Transfer the direction, personnel or functions of departments and
agencies or units thereof for the purpose of performing or facilitating
emergency response and recovery programs.
      (6)   Authorize any purchase or contracts necessary to place the village
in a position to effectively combat any emergency, protect property and provide
emergency assistance to victims in the case of such emergency.
      (7)   Procure such services, supplies, equipment or materials as may be
necessary for such purposes in view of the emergency, without regard to
statutory procedures or formalities normally prescribed by law pertaining to
municipal contracts or obligations.
      (8)   In collaboration with the Illinois Public Works Mutual Aid Network,
the Illinois Department of Transportation and the Illinois Department of
Corrections and other public agencies within the immediate vicinity, develop or
cause to be developed mutual aid arrangements for reciprocal emergency response
and recovery assistance in the event that the response to the emergency exceeds
village resources.
      (9)   Order the evacuation of all or part of the population from any
stricken or threatened area within the village.
      (10)   Prescribe the route, modes of transportation and destinations in
connection with evacuation.
      (11)   Control ingress and egress to and from a disaster area, the
movement of persons within the area and the occupancy of premises therein.
      (12)   Order a general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of
the village or to the village as a whole as the Mayor deems reasonably
necessary to respond to the emergency and applicable during such hours of the
day or night as the Mayor deems necessary in the interests of the public safety
and welfare.
      (13)   Order the restriction of vehicle movement except fire, police,
hospital services, utilities vehicles and physicians on emergency cases within
such geographical areas of the village or to the village as a whole as the
Mayor deems reasonable necessary to respond to the emergency.
      (14)   Make provision for the availability and use of temporary emergency
housing.
      (15)   Prohibit increases in prices of goods and services during an
emergency.
      (16)   Hire temporary part-time employees as needed to assist with
emergency response and recovery operations within the village.
      (17)   To designate the Community Foundation of Grundy County, or its
lawful successor, to accept monetary donations marked “Village of Diamond
Disaster” on behalf of the victims and to distribute the same to the victims.
      (18)   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the
protection of life and property.
   (D)   Duration of emergency powers. A declaration of a state of emergency
shall expire not later than the adjournment of the first regular meeting of the
Board of Commissioners after the state of emergency is declared unless sooner
terminated by proclamation of the Mayor indicating that the state of emergency
no longer exists.
(Ord. 2014-08, passed 8-12-2014)
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   An individual who knowingly violates §§
30.25 through
30.30 is guilty of a business offense and subject to a fine of not less than
$500 nor more than $1,000. Each solicitation or acceptance of a prohibited gift
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. M99-1, passed 7-13-1999)
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Village Committees
   
31.01   Park Advisory Committee
VILLAGE COMMITTEES
§ 31.01 PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Park Advisory Committee consisting of the
number of residents of the village as may be appointed from time to time by the
Mayor with the advice and consent of the Village Commission. The Committee
members shall serve at the pleasure of the village.
   (B)   The function and duties of this Committee will be to recommend,
suggest, coordinate, and advise the village in connection with the operation,
equipping, maintenance, and use of any park areas in the village.
   (C)   The Committee shall serve without compensation. The Committee shall
also meet with the Commission from time to time reporting their
recommendations, suggestions, and other matters relative to the use, operation,
and control of any park area in the village. The Village Commission shall take
the action as it deems necessary or appropriate with regard to the same.
   (D)   The village shall from time to time budget and appropriate the amounts
as it may deem appropriate for the operation, equipping, maintenance, and use
of any park property. Expenditures for park purposes shall be approved by the
Commission.
   (E)   This section shall be effective from and after its passage, approval,
and publication in pamphlet form.
(Ord. 2001-3, passed 5-22-2001)
CHAPTER 32: FINANCE; REVENUE; TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Fee reimbursement agreements
   
32.02   Authority to make financial institution transactions
   
32.03   Village fiscal year
   
32.04   Responsible bidder defined
Utility Taxes
   
32.15   Municipal utility tax
   
32.16   Municipal electric utility tax
Tax Increment Financing
   
32.25   “Interested parties” registry
   
32.26   Registration rules
Grocery Retailers’ and Service Tax
   
32.40   Municipal grocery retailers’ occupation tax and municipal grocery
service occupation tax
 
   
32.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 FEE REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Incorporation of recitals. The recitals in Ordinance 2004-12 are
incorporated herein as if fully set forth in this division (A).
   (B)   Imposition of fee reimbursement agreement as a prerequisite to the
processing of any application or petition for relief from the village.
      (1)   There is hereby mandated the execution of a fee reimbursement
agreement (“Agreement”) as a prerequisite and condition precedent to the
processing of any application for relief from the village arising under and
within any of the following provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, or any federal or
state or regional or county statute or regulation relating to the following
topics:
         (a)   Annexation;
         (b)   Development;
         (c)   Land use;
         (d)   Impact analysis;
         (e)   Zoning;
         (f)   Subdivision;
         (g)   Environmental;
         (h)   Right-of-way and village property management and disposition;
and
         (i)   Engineering.
      (2)   This Agreement is attached as Exhibit “A” to Ordinance 2004-12 and
hereby approved as to form and substance. The village may revise the Agreement
from time to time.
   (C)   Applicability. The Agreement shall be fully executed in relation to
all projects within the scope of division (B) above which are not owned or
leased by a government entity or agency with offices, materials, or services
within the project area. If a portion of the project is owned or leased by the
government entity(ies) or agency(ies), then those itemized sums relating to the
project and dedicated solely to the government entity(ies) or agency(ies) shall
be deducted from the sums to be reimbursed.
   (D)   Financial hardship.
      (1)   By ordinance following application for relief from the deposit
requirements, the village may authorized execution of the Agreement and the
provision of services upon a showing of financial hardship by a land owner (not
contract purchase or tenant). Financial hardship shall mean any of the
following:
         (a)   Uninsured loss or casualty of more than 49% of a statue;
         (b)   Status of the waiver applicant as generating income that is no
greater than 120% above the poverty level; and/or
         (c)   Existence of the bankruptcy of the owners occurring following
hearing.
      (2)   At all times, the applicant for waiver must establish inability to
pay via competent evidence submitted to the Village Clerk and referred to the
village corporate authorities for decision.
   (E)   Effectiveness. This section shall be in full force and effect from and
after its passage, approval, and publication in pamphlet form (and otherwise as
required by law) as provided in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-4.
   (F)   Publication. In accord with ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 4-5-13, this section
has remained on file in its final form for the minimum required period prior to
passage in a location within the Village Hall and outside the Clerk’s office
for public viewing. The Village Clerk is hereby authorized to publish this
section in book or pamphlet form or the other form which is permitted or
required pursuant to applicable law.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 4- -2004)
§ 32.02 AUTHORITY TO MAKE FINANCIAL INSTITUTION TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Financial institution transactions, including signing checks, on
behalf of the Village of Diamond, Illinois, shall require the signature of 2
different representatives of the village. One signature shall consist of a
representative of the village from group “A” as defined herein. The other
signature shall consist of a representative of the village from group “B” as
defined herein. Upon obtaining a bona fide direction, or check, signed by a
representative from Group A and countersigned by a representative from Group B,
any financial institution dealing with the village shall be empowered to make
the transaction. However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed
to allow any representative of the village to make any illegal, improper, or
unauthorized transaction.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         GROUP A. Any person duly elected as the Mayor or any Commissioner of
the Village of Diamond, Illinois, and currently in office at the time of the
transaction.
         GROUP B. Any person duly elected or appointed as the Mayor, the
Village Clerk, the Village Treasurer, or any Commissioner of the Village of
Diamond, Illinois, and currently in office at the time of the transaction.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall certify to the financial institutions holding
village funds the names of persons with authority to make transactions on
behalf of the village, and shall update the certification from time to time as
required whenever any representative of the village is no longer in office, or
when a new representative takes office.
(Ord. 2003-03, passed 4-8-2003)
§ 32.03 VILLAGE FISCAL YEAR.
   (A)   A fiscal year for the Village of Diamond, Grundy and Will Counties,
Illinois, other than that established by law, is hereby established.
   (B)   The fiscal year for the Village of Diamond, Grundy and Will Counties,
Illinois, shall begin on the first day of May of each year and end on the last
day of April of the following year.
(Ord. passed 7-6-1953)
§ 32.04 RESPONSIBLE BIDDER DEFINED.
   The Village of Diamond is in many instances and circumstances required to
let contracts in varying amounts to the lowest, responsive and responsible
bidder. The Village of Diamond has not heretofore defined the term “responsible
bidder” for the varying projects that the village undertakes. Therefore, for
all projects over $50,000.00 as follows, the term “RESPONSIBLE BIDDER” for
construction contracts means a bidder who meets all of the job specifications,
all of the following applicable criteria, and submits evidence of such
compliance:
   (A)   All applicable laws pre-requisite to do business in Illinois:
   (B)   Evidence of compliance with:
      (1)   Federal employer tax identification number or social security
number, for individuals; and
      (2)   Provisions of Section 2000(e) of Chapter 21, Title 42 of the United
States Code and Federal Executive Order No. 11246 as amended by Executive Order
No. 11375, commonly known as the Equal Opportunity Employer Provision.
   (C)   Certificates of insurance indicating the following coverage: general
liability, worker's compensation, completed operations, automobile, hazardous
occupation, product liability and professional liability, in not less than the
minimum amounts required by the village.
   (D)   Compliance with all provisions of the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act,
including wages, medical and hospitalization insurance and retirement for those
trades as covered in the “Act”;
   (E)   Participation in apprenticeship and training programs approved and
registered with the United States Department of Labor's Bureau of
Apprenticeship and Training.
(Ord. 2011-01, passed 1-25-2011)
Cross-reference:
   Prevailing rate of wages for laborers, workers and mechanics adopted, see §
33.01
UTILITY TAXES
§ 32.15 MUNICIPAL UTILITY TAX.
   (A)   Pursuant to Illinois law, including ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2, a
tax is imposed by the Village of Diamond, Grundy and Will Counties, Illinois,
on all persons engaged in the following occupations or privileges:
      (1)   Persons engaged in business of transmitting messages by means of
electricity at the rate of 5% of the gross receipts from the business
originating within the corporate limits of the Village of Diamond, Illinois;
      (2)   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits
of the Village of Diamond, Illinois, and not for resale, at the rate of 5% of
the gross receipts therefrom; and
      (3)   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling electricity for use or consumption within the corporate
limits of the Village of Diamond, and not for resale, at the rate of 5% of the
gross receipts therefrom. The tax imposed by this division (A)(3) shall not
apply with respect to gross receipts pertaining to bills for the distribution,
supply, furnishing, or sale of electricity where the use or consumption of the
electricity is subject to the tax imposed by this division (A).
(Am. Ord. 1998-08, passed 9-22-1998)
   (B)   No tax is imposed by this section with respect to any transaction in
interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which the business may not,
under the constitution and statutes of the United States, be made subject to
taxation by this state or any political subdivision thereof nor shall any
persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing, or
selling gas or electricity, or engaged in the business of transmitting messages
be subject to taxation under the provisions of the Municipal Retailers
Occupation Tax Act authorized by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, Article 8, Division 11, as
amended.
   (C)   The tax shall be in addition to the payment of money or value of
products or services furnished to this municipality by the taxpayer as
compensation for the use of its streets, alleys, or other public places, or
installation and maintenance therein, thereon or thereunder of poles, wires,
pipes, or other equipment used in the operation of the taxpayer’s business.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GROSS RECEIPTS. The consideration received for the transmission of
messages, or for distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling gas or
electricity for use or consumption and not for resale, as the case may be, and
for all services rendered in connection therewith valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including cash, credit, services, and properly
of every kind and material and for all services rendered therewith; and shall
be determined without any deduction, on account of the cost of transmitting the
messages without any deduction on account of the cost of the service, product
or commodity supplied, the cost of the materials used, labor, or service cost
or any other expenses whatsoever. The term GROSS RECEIPTS shall not include any
charges added to customer’s bills pursuant to the provision of ILCS Ch. 220,
Act 5, §§ 9-221 or 9-222, the Illinois Public Utilities Act, or any other
separately stated charge added to the customer’s bill in respect of any tax or
other governmental imposition.
      PERSON. The definition as provided in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2(d),
and that definition is hereby adopted by reference.
      TRANSMITTING MESSAGES. The definition as provided in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5,
§ 8-11-2(d), and that definition is hereby adopted by reference.
   (E)   On or before the last day of each month, each taxpayer shall make the
return required by the village to the Village Treasurer of the Village of
Diamond for a corresponding 1-month period. The taxpayer making the return
herein provided for shall, at the time of making the return, pay to the Village
Treasurer the amount of tax herein imposed; provided that in connection with
any return the taxpayer may, if he or she so elects, report and pay an amount
based upon his or her total billings of business subject to the tax during the
period for which the return is made (exclusive of any amounts previously
billed) with prompt adjustments of later payments based upon any differences
between the billings and the taxable gross receipts.
   (H)   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not
due under the provisions of this section, whether as the result of a mistake of
fact or an error of law, then the amount shall be credited against any tax due,
or to become due, under this section from the taxpayer who made the erroneous
payment; provided that no amounts erroneously paid more than 3 years prior to
filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited.
   (I)   No action to recover any amount tax due under the provisions of this
section shall be more than 3 years after the due date of the amount.
   (J)   This section shall take effect upon its passage, approval, and
publication as required by law, and it shall be published in pamphlet form.
(Ord. 1998-01, passed - -1998) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.16 MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC UTILITY TAX.
   (A)   Tax imposed.
      (1)   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following
occupations or privileges.
         (a)   The privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in a
purchase at retail and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the
municipality at the following rates, calculated on a monthly basis for each
purchaser:
            1.   For the first 2,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month
- $0.523 per kilowatt-hour;
            2.   For the next 48,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month
- $0.343 per kilowatt-hour;
            3.   For the next 50,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month
- $0.309 per kilowatt-hour;
            4.   For the next 400,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month - $0.300 per kilowatt-hour;
            5.   For the next 500,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month - $0.291 per kilowatt-hour;
            6.   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month - $0.274 per kilowatt-hour;
            7.   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month - $0.270 per kilowatt-hour;
            8.   For the next 5,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month - $0.266 per kilowatt-hour;
            9.   For the next 10,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month - $0.261 per kilowatt-hour; and
            10.   For all electricity used or consumed in excess of 20,000,000
kilowatt-hours in a month - $0.257 per kilowatt-hour.
         (b)   The tax rates set forth in the preceding table will be used at
least through 12-31-2008, are proportional to the rates enumerated in ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5, § 8-11-2 (as modified by Public Act 90-561), and do not exceed the
revenue that could have been collected during 1997 using the rates enumerated
in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2 (as modified by Public Act 90-561).
      (2)   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2, the rates set forth in
division (A)(1) above shall be effective:
         (a)   On 9-1-1998 for residential customers; and
         (b)   On the earlier of the first bill issued after 1-1-2001, or the
date of the first bill issued pursuant to ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-104, for
nonresidential customers.
(Am. Ord. 1998-07, passed 9-22-1998)
   (B)   Exceptions. None of the taxes authorized by this section may be
imposed with respect to any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to
the extent to which the business or privilege may not, under the Constitution
and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by this
state or any political subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged in
the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling or transmitting
gas, water, or electricity or engaged in the business of transmitting messages,
or using or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail, be subject
to taxation under the provisions of this section for those transactions that
are or may become subject to taxation under the provisions of the Municipal
Retailers Occupation Tax Act authorized by ILCS Ch. 5, Act 5, § 8-11-1; nor
shall any tax authorized by this section be imposed upon any person engaged in
a business or on any privilege unless the tax is imposed in like manner and at
the same rate upon all persons engaged in business of the same class in the
municipality, whether privately or municipality owned or operated, or
exercising the same privilege within the municipality.
   (C)   Additional taxes. The tax shall addition to other taxes levied upon
the taxpayer or its business.
   (D)   Collection. The tax authorized by this section shall be collected from
the purchaser by the person maintaining a place of business in this state who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt of
the purchaser to the person who delivers the electricity to the purchaser and
if unpaid, is recoverable in the same manner as the original charge for
delivering the electricity. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this
section and any such tax collected by a person delivering electricity shall
constitute a debt owed to the municipality by the person delivering the
electricity; provided that the person delivering electricity shall be allowed a
credit for the tax related to deliveries of electricity the charges for which
are written off as uncollectible, and provided further, that if the charges are
thereafter collected, the delivering supplied shall be obligated to remit the
tax. Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the purchaser by
adding the tax to the gross charge for delivering the electricity. Persons
delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to the gross charge an
amount equal to 3% of the tax to reimburse the person delivering electricity
for the expense incurred in keeping records, billing customers, preparing and
filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data to the municipality upon
request. If the person delivering electricity fails to collect the tax from the
purchaser, then the purchaser shall be required to pay the tax directly to the
municipality in the manner prescribed by the municipality. Persons delivering
electricity who file returns pursuant to this division (D) shall, at the time
of filing the return, pay the municipality the amount of the tax collected
pursuant to this section.
(Am. Ord. 1998-07, passed 9-22-1998)
   (E)   Reports to municipality.
      (1)   On or before the last day of each month, each taxpayer shall make a
return to the village for the preceding month stating:
         (a)   His or her name;
         (b)   His or her principal place of business;
         (c)   His or her gross receipts and/or kilowatt-hour usage during the
month upon the basis of which the tax is imposed;
         (d)   Amount of tax; and
         (e)   The other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
      (2)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the
time of making the return, pay to the Village of Diamond, the amount of tax
herein imposed; provided that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may,
if he or she so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his or her total
billings of business subject to the tax during the period for which the return
is made (exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of
later payments based upon any differences between the billings, and the taxable
gross receipts.
   (F)   Credit for overpayment.
      (1)   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was
not due under the provisions of this section, whether as the result of a
mistake of fact or an error of law, then the amount shall be credited against
any tax due, or to become due, under this section from the taxpayer who made
the erroneous payment; provided that no amounts erroneously paid more than 3
years prior to the filling of a claim therefor shall be so credited.
      (2)   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of
this section shall be commenced more than 3 years after the due date of the
amount.
   (G)   Effective date. This section shall be in full force and effect from
and after its passage and approval as provided by law and shall be published in
pamphlet form.
(Ord. 1998-04, passed 7-28-1998) Penalty, see §
32.99
TAX INCREMENT FINANCING
§ 32.25 “INTERESTED PARTIES” REGISTRY.
   The Mayor, or his or her designee, is hereby authorized and directed to
create an “interested parties” registry in accordance with ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5,
§ 11-74.4-4.2 of the Tax Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act, ILCS Ch. 65,
Act 5, §§ 11-74.4-4 et seq. (the “Act”), for each redevelopment project area
created under the Act and not terminated by the village, whether now existing
or created after the date of the adoption of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 4-14-2009; Am. Ord. 2012-06, passed 4-10-2012)
§ 32.26 REGISTRATION RULES.
   In accordance with ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.4-4.2, the village hereby
adopts the registration rules, attached to Ordinance 2012-06 as Exhibit A, as
registration rules for each such “interested parties” registry. The village,
with the consent of the Village Attorney as to form and legality, shall have
the authority to amend such registration rules from time to time as may be
necessary or desirable to comply with and carry out the purposes intended by
the Act.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 4-14-2009; Am. Ord. 2012-06, passed 4-10-2012)
GROCERY RETAILERS’ AND SERVICE TAX
§ 32.40 MUNICIPAL GROCERY RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX AND MUNICIPAL GROCERY
SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Municipal grocery retailers' occupation tax imposed. A tax is hereby
imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling groceries at retail
in this municipality at the rate of 1% of the gross receipts from such sales
made in the course of such business while this section is in effect. The
imposition of this tax is in accordance with and subject to the provisions of §
8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-24).
   (B)   Municipal grocery service occupation tax. A tax is hereby imposed upon
all persons engaged in this municipality in the business of making sales of
service, who, as an incident to making those sales of service, transfer
groceries as an incident to a sale of service. The rate of this tax shall be
the same rate identified in division (A), above. The imposition of this tax is
in accordance with and subject to the provisions of § 8-11-24 of the Illinois
Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-24).
   (C)   Illinois Department of Revenue to administer both taxes. The taxes
hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an incident
thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department of Revenue of the
State of Illinois. The Illinois Department of Revenue shall have full power to
administer and enforce the provisions of this section.
   (D)   Clerk to file ordinance with Illinois Department of Revenue. As
required under § 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §
8-11-24), the Clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of the
ordinance codified in this section with the Illinois Department of Revenue on
or before October 1, 2024.
   (E)   Effective date. The taxes imposed by this section shall take effect on
the later of: (i) January 1, 2026; (ii) the first day of July next following
the adoption and filing of the ordinance codified in this section with the
Department of Revenue, if filed on or before the preceding April 1; or (iii)
the first day of January next following the adoption and filing of the
ordinance codified in this section with the Department of Revenue, if filed on
or before the preceding October 1.
(Ord. 2024-12, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes fraudulent
return, or who willfully violates any other provision of §
32.15, shall be fined not less than $500 and in addition shall be liable in a
civil action for the amount of tax due.
(Ord. 1998-01, passed - -1998)
   (C)   Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent
return, or who willfully violates any other provision of §
32.16, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than $100 nor more than $200 in addition, shall be liable in a civil
action for the amount of tax due.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2) (Ord. 1998-04, passed 7-28-1998)
CHAPTER 33: VILLAGE POLICIES
Section
   
33.01   Adopting prevailing rate of wages for laborers, workers and mechanics
employed on public works of the village
   
33.02   Equal employment
   
33.03   Whistleblower protection policy
   
33.04   Paid leave policy
   
33.05   Artificial intelligence
§ 33.01 ADOPTING PREVAILING RATE OF WAGES FOR LABORERS, WORKERS AND MECHANICS
EMPLOYED ON PUBLIC WORKS OF THE VILLAGE.
   (A)   To the extent and as required by “An Act regulating wages of laborers,
mechanics and other workers employed in any public works by State, county, city
or any public body or any political subdivision or by anyone under contract for
public works,” approved June 26, 1941, as amended, the general prevailing rate
of wages in this locality for laborers, mechanics and other workers engaged in
the construction of public works coming under the jurisdiction of the village
is hereby ascertained to be the same as the prevailing rate of wages for
construction work in the Grundy County area as determined by the Department of
Labor of the State of Illinois as of June 2018, a copy of that determination
being attached hereto as “Exhibit A” and incorporated herein by reference. As
required by said Act, any and all revisions of the prevailing rate of wages by
the Department of Labor of the State of Illinois shall supersede the
Department’s June 2018, determination and shall apply to any and all public
works construction undertaken by the village. The definition of any terms
appearing in this section which are also used in aforesaid Act shall be the
same as in said Act.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply said general
prevailing rate of wages as herein ascertained to any work or employment except
public works construction of the village to the extent required by the
aforesaid Act.
   (C)   The Village Clerk shall publicly post or keep available for inspection
by any interested party in the main office of the village this determination or
any revisions of such prevailing rate of wage. A copy of this determination or
of the current revised determination of prevailing rate of wages then in effect
shall be attached to all contract specifications.
   (D)   The Village Clerk shall mail a copy of this determination to any
employer, and to any association of employers and to any person or association
of employees who have filed their names and addresses, requesting copies of any
determination stating the particular rates and the particular class of workers
whose wages will be affected by such rates.
   (E)   The Village Clerk shall promptly file a certified copy of this section
with the Secretary of State Index Division and the Department of Labor of the
State of Illinois.
   (F)   The Village Clerk shall cause to be published in a newspaper of
general circulation within the area a notice that this section has been adopted
and such publication shall constitute notice that the determination is
effective and that this is the determination of the village.
(Ord. 2009-08, passed 6-9-2009; Am. Ord. 2010-05, passed 5-11-2010; Am. Ord.
2011-05, passed 5-10-2011; Am. Ord. 2012-14, passed 5-22-2012; Am. Ord. 2013-
04, passed 5-14-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-13-2014; Am. Ord. 2015-05,
passed 5-26-2015; Am. Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-24-2016; Am. Ord. 2017-09, passed
5-23-2017; Am. Ord. 2018-09, passed 5-22-2018)
§ 33.02 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   The village hereby declares to uphold, defend, enforce, and advocate
for all laws related to equal employment opportunity, including but not limited
to the following:
      (1)   Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which prohibits
discrimination in the participation in or benefits of programs or activities
receiving federal financial assistance on the basis of race, color or national
origin.
      (2)   Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which prohibits
discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex or national origin in all
employment practices, including hiring, firing, promotions, compensation and
other terms, privileges and conditions of employment.
      (3)   Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, which prohibits
discrimination in federally assisted education programs.
      (4)   The Equal Pay Act of 1963, which covers all employees covered by
the Fair Labor Standards Act. The Act forbids pay differentials on the basis of
sex.
      (5)   The Age Discrimination Act of 1967, which prohibits discrimination
because of age against anyone between the ages of 40 and 65.
      (6)   Federal Executive Order 11246, which requires every contract with
federal financial assistance to contain a clause against discrimination because
of race, color, religion, sex or national origin.
      (7)   Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and U.S. DOL
Implementing Regulations at 29 C.F.R. 32, which prohibits any discrimination
based on disability.
      (8)   Section 188 of WIA and the U.S. DOL Regulations at 29 C.F.R. pts.
31 and 32, which provides that no person in the United States shall be excluded
from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subject to
discrimination on the basis of race, color or national origin, under any
program or activity receiving federal financial assistance from the United
States Department of Labor.
      (9)   Chapter 68, Article I, Section 17-19 of the Illinois Constitution,
which prohibits discrimination based on race, color, creed, national ancestry,
disability and sex in the hiring and promotion practices of any employer.
      (10)   The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, which prohibits
discriminations against persons with disabilities on the basis of their
disability.
      (11)   Illinois Human Rights Act (ILCS Ch. 775, Act 5), which prohibits
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, national origin, ancestry,
age, order of protection status, marital status, physical or mental disability,
military status, sexual orientation, or unfavorable discharge from military
service in connection with employment, real estate transactions, access to
financial credit, and the availability of public accommodations.
   (B)   As used in this section, the following word shall be ascribed the
meaning as follows: MINORITY shall refer to American Indians, Asians, blacks or
Hispanics, and to such protected classes as youth, elderly, women or persons
with disabilities.
   (C)   The village will assure non-discriminatory employment practices in
recruitment, recruitment advertising, employment, placement, layoff or
termination, promotion, demotion or transfer, rate of pay or other forms of
compensation and use of facilities.
   (D)   The village will not contract with other agencies, banks, businesses,
vendors, and the like, which practice or establish a pattern of discrimination
based on race, color, religion, sex, national origin, ancestry, age, order of
protection status, marital status, physical or mental disability, military
status, sexual orientation, or unfavorable discharge from military.
   (E)   (1)   The village will incorporate into any contract for construction
work, or modification thereof, subject to the relevant rules, regulations, and
orders of the Secretary of Labor or of any prior authority that remains in
effect, which is paid in whole or in part with the aid of such financial
assistance, the following “Equal Employment Opportunity Clause”:
      (2)   In the event of the contractor's non-compliance with the provisions
of this Equal Employment Opportunity Clause, the Act or the Rules and
Regulations of the Department, the contractor may be declared ineligible for
future contracts or subcontracts with the State of Illinois, or any of its
political subdivisions or municipal corporations, and the contract may be
cancelled or voided, in whole or in part, and other sanctions or penalties may
be imposed or remedies invoked as provided by statute or regulation. During the
performance of this contract, the contractor agrees as follows:
         (a)   That he or she will not discriminate against any employee or
applicant for employment because of race, color, religion, sex, sexual
orientation, marital status, national origin or ancestry, citizenship status,
age, physical or mental disability unrelated to ability, sexual orientation,
military status or an unfavorable discharge from military service; and,
further, that he or she will examine all job classifications to determine if
minority persons or women are underutilized, and will take appropriate
affirmative action to rectify any underutilization.
         (b)   That, if he or she hires additional employees in order to
perform this contract or any portion of this contract, he or she will determine
the availability (in accordance with the Department's Rules and Regulations) of
minorities and women in the areas from which he or she may reasonably recruit,
and he or she will hire for each job classification for which employees are
hired in a way that minorities and women are not underutilized.
         (c)   That, in all solicitations or advertisements for employees
placed by him or her or on his or her behalf, he or she will state that all
applicants will be afforded equal opportunity without discrimination because of
race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, national origin
or ancestry, citizenship status, age, physical or mental disability unrelated
to ability, sexual orientation, military status or an unfavorable discharge
from military service.
         (d)   That he or she will send to each labor organization or
representative of workers with which he or she has or is bound by a collective
bargaining or other agreement or understanding, a notice advising the labor
organization or representative of the contractor's obligations under the Act
and the Department's Rules and Regulations. If any labor organization or
representative fails or refuses to cooperate with the contractor in his or her
efforts to comply with the Act and Rules and Regulations, the contractor will
promptly notify the Department, and the contracting agency, and will recruit
employees from other sources when necessary to fulfill its obligations under
the contract.
         (e)   That he or she will submit reports as required by the
Department's Rules and Regulations, furnish all relevant information as may
from time to time be requested by the Department or the contracting agency, and
in all respects comply with the Act and the Department's Rules and Regulations.
         (f)   That he or she will permit access to all relevant books,
records, accounts and work sites by personnel of the contracting agency and the
Department for purposes of investigation to ascertain compliance with the Act
and the Department's Rules and Regulations.
         (g)   That he or she will include, verbatim or by reference, the
provisions of this clause in every subcontract awarded under which any portion
of the contract obligations are undertaken or assumed, so that the provisions
will be binding upon the subcontractor. In the same manner as with other
provisions of this contract, the contractor will be liable for compliance with
applicable provisions of this clause by subcontractors; and further it will
promptly notify the contracting agency and the Department in the event any
subcontractor fails or refuses to comply with the provisions. In addition, the
contractor will not utilize any subcontractor declared by the Illinois Human
Rights Commission to be ineligible for contracts or subcontracts with the State
of Illinois or any of its political subdivisions or municipal corporations.
   (F)   The village assures that it will actively provide nondiscriminatory
outreach, selection, and service to all individuals.
   (G)   Efforts will be made to hire minority individuals for all job
categories so that minority employment in all categories of the work force will
represent a proportionate share of minority populations in the village as well
as surrounding areas.
   (H)   The village will provide accommodations to the best of its ability for
employees with disabilities, contingent on budget and structural limitations.
   (I)   All village employees are expected to adhere to the above policy and
to work actively for its implementation, both internally and in carrying out
village program activities.
   (J)   The village designates the Mayor to carry out the provisions of this
section.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-24-2012)
§ 33.03 WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The Village of Diamond in Diamond, IL provides whistleblower
protections in two important areas: confidentiality and against retaliation.
The confidentiality of a whistleblower will be maintained to the extent
allowable by law, however, an identity may have to be disclosed to conduct a
thorough investigation, to comply with the law and to provide accused
individuals their legal rights of defense. A whistleblower may also waive
confidentiality in writing. The Village of Diamond will not retaliate against a
whistleblower. This includes, but is not limited to, protection from
retaliation in the form of an adverse employment action such as termination,
compensation decreases, or poor work assignments and threats of physical harm.
Any whistleblowers who believe they are being retaliated against must submit a
written report to the Auditing Official within 60 days of gaining knowledge of
the retaliatory action. The right of a whistleblower for protection against
retaliation does not include immunity for any personal wrongdoing that is
alleged and investigated.
   (B)   Definitions.
      AUDITING OFFICIAL. Any elected, appointed or employed individual, by
whatever name, in the Village of Diamond whose duties may include: receiving,
registering and investigating complaints and information concerning misconduct,
inefficiency and waste within the Village of Diamond; investigating the
performance of officers, employees, functions and programs; and, promoting
economy, efficiency, effectiveness and integrity in the administration of the
programs and operations of the Village of Diamond.
         (a)   The Auditing Official shall be Teresa Kernc-Mayor, until
replaced by the Village of Diamond.
         (b)   If the Village of Diamond does not designate an Auditing
Official, the Auditing Official defaults to the State's Attorney of Grundy
County, IL.
      EMPLOYEE. Anyone employed by the Village of Diamond, whether in a
permanent or temporary position, including full-time, part-time and
intermittent workers. Employee also includes members of appointed boards or
commissions, whether paid or unpaid. Employee also includes persons who have
been terminated because of any report or complaint submitted under ILCS Ch. 50,
Act 105, § 4.1.
      IMPROPER GOVERNMENTAL ACTION.
         (a)   Any action by an employee of the Village of Diamond; an
appointed member of a board, commission or committee; or, an elected official
of the Village of Diamond that is undertaken in violation of a federal or state
law or local ordinance; is an abuse of authority; violates the public's trust
or expectation of their conduct; is of substantial and specific danger to the
public's health or safety; or, is a gross waste of public funds. The action
need not be within the scope of the employee's, elected official's, board
member's, commission member's or committee member's official duties to be
subject to a claim of IMPROPER GOVERNMENTAL ACTION.
         (b)   Improper governmental action does not include the Village of
Diamond's personnel actions, including, but not limited to employee grievances,
complaints, appointments, promotions, transfers, assignments, reassignments,
reinstatements, restorations, reemployment, performance evaluations, reductions
in pay, dismissals, suspensions, demotions, reprimands or violations of
collective bargaining agreements, except to the extent that the action amounts
to retaliation.
      RETALIATE, RETALIATION OR RETALIATORY ACTION. Any adverse change in an
employee's employment status or the terms and conditions of employment that
results from an employee's protected activity under ILCS Ch. 50, Act 105, §
4.1. Retaliatory action includes, but is not limited to, denial of adequate
staff to perform duties; frequent staff changes; frequent and undesirable
office changes; refusal to assign meaningful work; unsubstantiated letters of
reprimand or unsatisfactory performance evaluations; demotion; reduction in
pay; denial of promotion; transfer or reassignment; suspension or dismissal;
or, other disciplinary action made because of an employee's protected activity
under ILCS Ch. 50, Act 105, § 4.1.
      WHISTLEBLOWER. An employee, as defined in this division, of the Village
of Diamond who:
         (a)   Reports an improper governmental action as defined under ILCS
Ch. 50, Act 105, § 4.1;
         (b)   Cooperates with an investigation by an Auditing Official related
to a report of improper governmental action; or
         (c)   Testifies in a proceeding or prosecution arising out of an
improper governmental action.
   (C)   Duties of an Auditing Official.
      (1)   Each Auditing Official shall establish written processes and
procedures consistent with the terms of this policy and best practices for
investigations for managing complaints filed under ILCS Ch. 50, Act 105, § 4.1.
Each Auditing Official shall investigate and dispose of reports of improper
governmental action in accordance with these processes and procedures, and all
other provisions of ILCS Ch. 50, Act 105, § 4.1.
      (2)   The Auditing Official must provide each employee a written summary
or a complete copy of ILCS Ch. 50, Act 105, § 4.1 upon commencement of
employment and at least once each year of employment. At the same time, the
employee shall also receive a copy of the written processes and procedures for
reporting improper governmental actions from the applicable Auditing Official.
      (3)   Auditing Officials may reinstate, reimburse for lost wages or
expenses incurred, promote or provide some other form of restitution.
      (4)   In instances where an Auditing Official determines that restitution
will not suffice, the Auditing Official may make their investigation findings
available for the purposes of aiding in that employee's, or the employee's
attorney's, effort to make the employee whole.
      (5)   Auditing Officials are responsible for reading the full context of
ILCS Ch. 50, Act 105, § 4.1 and complying with all requirements.
      (6)   If no Auditing Official is designated, the State's Attorney of
Grundy County will be the default Auditing Official.
   (D)   Duties of an employee.
      (1)   All reports of illegal and dishonest activities will be promptly
submitted to the Auditing Official who is responsible for investigating and
coordinating corrective action. If an employee has knowledge of, or a concern
of, improper governmental action, the employee shall make a written report of
the activity to the Auditing Official. The employee must exercise sound
judgment to avoid baseless allegations. An employee who intentionally files a
false report of wrongdoing will be subject to discipline up to and including
termination.
      (2)   The whistleblower is not responsible for investigating the activity
or for determining fault or corrective measures; a designated Auditing Official
is charged with these responsibilities.
   (E)   Defend Trade Secrets Act compliance. Immunity from liability for
confidential disclosure of a trade secret to the government or in a court
filing:
      (1)   Immunity. An individual shall not be held criminally or civilly
liable under any federal or state trade secret law for the disclosure of a
trade secret that-(A) is made-(i) in confidence to a federal, state or local
government official, either directly or indirectly, or to an attorney; and (ii)
solely for the purpose of reporting or investigating a suspected violation of
law; or (B) is made in a complaint or other document filed in a lawsuit or
other proceeding, if such filing is made under seal.
      (2)   Use of trade secret information in anti-retaliation lawsuit. An
individual who files a lawsuit for retaliation by an employer for reporting a
suspected violation of law may disclose the trade secret to the attorney of the
individual and use the trade secret information in the court proceeding, if the
individual-(A) files any document containing the trade secret under seal; and
(B) does not disclose the trade secret, except pursuant to court order. (18
U.S.C. § 1833).
   (F)   Employee acknowledgment. Employees are required to sign a written
acknowledgment that they have received, read and understand this policy, and to
submit that acknowledgment to the Auditing Official or other designated
official of the Village of Diamond. The form that follows will satisfy this
requirement upon receipt.
Employee Acknowledgment of Whistleblower Protection Policy
   I confirm that I have received read and understand the "Whistleblower
Protection Policy" for employees of the Village of Diamond.
   I understand that as an employee, it is my responsibility to abide by this
Policy. If I have questions about the Policy, I understand it is my
responsibility to seek clarification from the proper supervisory department,
the Auditing Official or the State's Attorney of Grundy County, IL.
   Print Name:                            
   Employee Signature:                            
   Date:                       
(Ord. 2021-16, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 33.04 PAID LEAVE POLICY.
   Pursuant to Section 15(p) of 820 ILCS 192/1 et seq., the village hereby
adopts its current paid leave policy for all village employees as set forth in
the Village's Code of Ordinances, Employee Handbook, Annual Salary Ordinances,
any collective bargaining agreements to which the village is a party and all
other binding legislative actions governing paid leave adopted by the Mayor and
Board of Commissioners, as the same may be amended from time to time. However,
in no event shall the village, as an employer, provide less than one day of
paid leave per year to any village employee.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 33.05 ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE.
   (A)   Purpose. This policy prohibits the employees and officers of the
village to use artificial intelligence (AI) systems. The village defines
“artificial intelligence” or “AI” to be a machine-based system that can, for a
given set of human-defined objectives, make predictions, recommendations or
decisions influencing real or virtual environments. AI systems use machine- and
human-based inputs to perceive real and virtual environments; abstract such
perceptions into models through analysis in an automated manner; and, use model
inference to formulate options for information or action. The village defines
an “AI system” to be any data system, software, hardware, application, tool or
utility that operates in whole or in part using AI.
   (B)   Scope. The policy applies to all employees (full-time, part-time),
interns, consultants, contractors, partners and volunteers who may be
purchasing, configuring, developing, operating or maintaining the village’s AI
systems or who may be leveraging AI systems to provide services to the village.
   (C)   Policy. When purchasing, configuring, developing, operating or
maintaining AI systems, the village will:
      (1)   Prohibit the use of AI systems;
      (2)   Require contractors to comply with the village’s AI policy overseen
by the Village Mayor; and
      (3)   The Village Mayor is responsible for overseeing the prohibition of
AI systems used by or on behalf of village departments.
   (D)   Prohibited use. The use of AI systems is prohibited due to the
sensitive nature of the information processed and severe potential risk. If
village staff or officers become aware of an instance where an AI system has
been used or has caused harm, they must report the instance to their supervisor
and the Village Mayor. All employees and agents of the village, whether
permanent or temporary, interns, volunteers, contractors, consultants, vendors
and other third parties operating AI systems on behalf of the village are
required to abide by this policy.
   (E)   Violation of the AI policy. Violations of any section of the AI policy
may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
Violations made by a third party while operating an AI system on behalf of the
village may result in a breach of contract and/or pursuit of damages.
Infractions that violate local, state, federal or international law may be
remanded to the proper authorities.
(Ord. 2024-11, passed 8-13-2024)
CHAPTER 34: EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK
General Provisions
   
34.01   Adoption of the Village of Diamond Employee Handbook by reference
Sexual Harassment and Other Unlawful Harassment Policy
   
34.15   Prohibition on sexual harassment and other unlawful harassment
   
34.16   Definition of sexual harassment
   
34.17   Procedure for reporting an allegation of sexual harassment
   
34.18   Prohibition on retaliation for reporting sexual harassment allegations
   
34.19   Consequences of a violation of the prohibition on sexual harassment
   
34.20   Consequences for knowingly making a false report
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 ADOPTION OF THE VILLAGE OF DIAMOND EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK BY REFERENCE.
   The Village of Diamond Employee Handbook, Dated June 27, 2006, as may be
amended from time to time, is hereby adopted and incorporated herein, the same
is if set out in full.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 1-9-2018; Am. Ord. 2020-21, passed 7-14-2020; Am. Ord.
2020-24, passed 10-27-2020; Am. Ord. 2021-01, passed 1-12-2021; Am. Ord. 2021-
05, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2022-08, passed 7-26-2022; Am. Ord. 2022-22, passed
12-13-2022; Am. Ord. 2024-01, passed 1- 23-2024; Am. Ord. 2024-07, passed 4-9-
2024; Am. Ord. 2024-19, passed 11-26-2024)
SEXUAL HARASSMENT AND OTHER UNLAWFUL HARASSMENT POLICY
§ 34.15 PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT AND OTHER UNLAWFUL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   It is the Village of Diamond’s policy that it will not tolerate or
condone discrimination or harassment on the basis of race, color, religion,
sex, gender, sexual orientation, genetic information, national origin, age,
physical or mental disability, ancestry, marital status, military status, or
any other classification prohibited under federal or state law. The Village of
Diamond will neither tolerate nor condone discrimination or harassment by
employees, managers, supervisors, elected officials, co-workers, or non-
employees with whom Village of Diamond has a business, service or professional
relationship. Retaliation against an employee who complains about or reports
any act of discrimination or harassment in violation of this policy is
prohibited. Retaliation against any employee who participates in an
investigation pursuant to this policy is likewise prohibited. The Village of
Diamond is committed to ensuring and providing a work place free of
discrimination, harassment, and retaliation. The Village of Diamond will take
disciplinary action, up to and including termination, against any employee who
violates this policy.
   (B)   As set forth above, sexual harassment is prohibited. It is unlawful to
harass a person because of that person’s sex. The courts have determined that
sexual harassment is a form of discrimination under Title VII of the U.S. Civil
Rights Act of 1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have a right to work in an
environment free from sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is unacceptable
misconduct which affects individuals of all genders and sexual orientations. It
is a policy of the Village of Diamond to prohibit harassment of any person by
any municipal official, municipal agent, municipal employee or municipal agency
or office on the basis of sex or gender. All municipal officials, municipal
agents, municipal employees and municipal agencies or offices are prohibited
from sexually harassing any person, regardless of any employment relationship
or lack thereof.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 34.16 DEFINITION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   This policy adopts the definition of sexual harassment as stated in
the Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently defines sexual harassment as:
any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any conduct of a
sexual nature when:
      (1)   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly
a term or condition of an individual’s employment;
      (2)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
      (3)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with an individual’s work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
   (B)   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes:
      (1)   Verbal:  sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor, and
jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature.
      (2)   Non-verbal:  suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, “catcalls”, “smacking”
or “kissing” noises.
      (3)   Visual: posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites.
      (4)   Physical: touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching,
brushing the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
      (5)   Textual/electronic: “sexting” (electronically sending messages with
sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually explicit
language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of electronic
communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line postings,
blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and Twitter).
   (C)   The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a “reasonable person.”
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 34.17 PROCEDURE FOR REPORTING AN ALLEGATION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes herself/
himself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident(s)
as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her/his position to
the offending employee, and her/his immediate supervisor. It is not necessary
for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the report.
   (B)   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following:
      (1)   Electronic/direct communication. If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her/his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
      (2)   Contact with supervisory personnel.
         (a)   At the same time direct communication is undertaken, or in the
event the employee feels threatened or intimidated by the situation, the
problem must be promptly reported to the immediate supervisor of the person
making the report, a department head, a director of human resources, an ethics
officer, the city manager or administrator, or the chief executive officer of
the municipality.
         (b)   The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual
harassment must not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there
are no witnesses and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other
responsible officer, the municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of
the harassment.
      (3)   Resolution outside municipality. The purpose of this policy is to
establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
municipality. However, all municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within 180 days of the alleged
incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with the EEOC must
be filed within 300 days.
   (C)   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report (what
was said or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not limited
to, written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone messages.
   (D)   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
municipality. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant’s willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 34.18 PROHIBITION ON RETALIATION FOR REPORTING SEXUAL HARASSMENT ALLEGATIONS.
   (A)   No municipal official, municipal agency, municipal employee or
municipal agency or office shall take any retaliatory action against any
municipal employee due to a municipal employee’s:
      (1)   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
policy;
      (2)   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation
of this policy; or
      (3)   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
   (B)   For the purposes of this policy, retaliatory action means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any municipal employee that
is taken in retaliation for a municipal employee’s involvement in protected
activity pursuant to this policy.
   (C)   No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
   (D)   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 15-10)
provides whistleblower protection from retaliatory action such as reprimand,
discharge, suspension, demotion, or denial of promotion or transfer that occurs
in retaliation for an employee who does any of the following:
      (1)   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, State agency, or
other State employee that the State employee reasonably believes is in
violation of a law, rule, or regulation;
      (2)   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, State agency or other State
employee; or
      (3)   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions
of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
   (E)   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act (ILCS Ch. 740, Act 174, § 15(a)), an
employer may not retaliate against an employee who discloses information in a
court, an administrative hearing, or before a legislative commission or
committee, or in any other proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause
to believe that the information discloses a violation of a state or federal
law, rule, or regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an
employee for disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency,
where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information
discloses a violation of a State or federal law, rule, or regulation. (ILCS Ch.
740, Act 174, § 15(b)).
   (F)   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act (ILCS Ch. 775, Act 5, § 6-
101), it is a civil rights violation for a person, or for two or more people to
conspire, to retaliate against a person because he/she has opposed that which
he/she reasonably and in good faith believes to be sexual harassment in
employment, because he/she has made a charge, filed a complaint, testified,
assisted, or participated in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the
Illinois Human Rights Act.
   (G)   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or
passed over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may
file a retaliation charge - due within 180 days (IDHR) or 300 days (EEOC) of
the alleged retaliation.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 34.19 CONSEQUENCES OF A VIOLATION OF THE PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant
to municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks
and/or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this policy or
the Prohibition on Sexual Harassment contained in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 5-65,
may be subject to a fine of up to $5,000 per offense, applicable discipline or
discharge by the municipality and any applicable fines and penalties
established pursuant to local ordinance, State law or Federal law. Each
violation may constitute a separate offense. Any discipline imposed by the
municipality shall be separate and distinct from any penalty imposed by an
ethics commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a court of law or a
State or Federal agency.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 34.20 CONSEQUENCES FOR KNOWINGLY MAKING A FALSE REPORT.
   (A)   A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser
using the sexual harassment report to accomplish some end other than stopping
sexual harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false
report is not a report made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the
seriousness of the consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is
a severe offense that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who
intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of
this policy shall be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable
municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreements.
   (B)   In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report
alleging a violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees
Ethics Act to an ethics commission, an inspector general, the State Police, a
State’s Attorney, the Attorney General, or any other law enforcement official
is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. An ethics commission may levy an
administrative fine of up to $5,000 against any person who intentionally makes
a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 1-9-2018)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   GARBAGE, REFUSE, AND RECYCLABLES
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
      
54.   SANITARY SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Connection of sanitary or waste sewers to stormwater drainage systems
prohibited
Fees
   
50.15   Sewer and water capacity user fee
   
50.16   Water service connection fee
   
50.17   Sanitary sewer service connection fee
   
50.18   Monthly user fees for sewer and water use
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Water, see
Ch. 52
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 CONNECTION OF SANITARY OR WASTE SEWERS TO STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEMS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, or
institution, public or private, to connect or cause to be connected any drain
carrying, or to carry, any toilet, sink, basement, septic tank, cesspool,
industrial waste, or any fixture or device discharging polluting substances, to
any open ditch, drain, or drainage structure installed solely for street or
highway drainage purposes in the Village of Diamond, Illinois.
   (B)   This section is intended to and shall be in addition to all other
ordinances, state statutes, rules, and regulations concerning pollution and
shall not be construed as repealing or rescinding any other ordinance or part
of any ordinance unless in direct conflict herewith.
(Ord. 1993-22, passed 12-14-1993) Penalty, see §
50.99
FEES
§ 50.15 SEWER AND WATER CAPACITY USER FEE.
   (A)   (1)   There is hereby established a sewer and water capacity user fee
which shall be due and payable to the Village Clerk for connection to the
village sewer and/or water system as follows:
         (a)   Single-family residence - $750;
         (b)   Duplex, triplex, or quad - $750 per unit; and
         (c)   Commercial and industrial - $1,500.
      (2)   For a connection with commercial or industrial buildings, or any
user not listed in division (A)(1) above, a charge shall be made based upon the
quantity and nature of the waste to be discharged into the sewerage system and
the quantity of water to be used.
      (3)   In the event of the use of one of the services, water or sewer, is
not available to the applicant desiring to connect to a service which is
available, the fee to be charged shall be 60% of that amount if only sewer
service is available and 40% of that amount if only water is available.
      (4)   The amounts to be charged under the provisions of above shall be
determined by the Mayor and Commission based upon engineering data supplied by
the City Engineer.
      (5)   The above fees shall be charged in addition to the fees required to
be charged for sewer and water tap-on fees or connection fees and inspection
fees, and shall be charged in addition to the fees required to be charged under
the terms of any subdivider reimbursement agreement.
      (6)   (a)   There is hereby imposed upon all new connections to a sewer
main within the village a sewer user fee in the amount of $1,000.
         (b)   The fee shall be payable in advance at the time of application
requesting a service connection to a sewer main.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 3-9-2004)
   (B)   The fees provided in this section shall be paid to the village prior
to connection to the sewer and/or water system of the village.
   (C)   This section shall become effective upon its passage, approval, and
publication; and this section shall be published in pamphlet form.
(1995-07, passed 11-28-1995) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.16 WATER SERVICE CONNECTION FEE.
   (A)   (1)   Every person desiring a new water service tap shall make
application therefore in writing to the Village Clerk. The application shall
state the location of the premises, the legal description, the size of the pipe
required, and the approximate location where the service will enter the
premises. Taps or connections to the water mains will then be under the
supervision of the Commissioner of Water. Taps shall be paid for before they
are made and no person other than an authorized person shall make any such tap
or connection. Effective immediately, the fees for a water tap or connection
for all buildings shall be as follows:
         (a)   Single-family residence - $750;
         (b)   Residential duplex, triplex, or quad - $750 per unit; and
         (c)   Commercial and industrial - $1,500.
      (2)   The expense of labor and materials to install the tap or connection
to bring the water lines to the property line of the premises and all other
labor and materials shall be paid for by the applicant. Prior to or at the same
time the tap or connection is made to the water main, an authorized employee of
the Village Water Department shall install a water meter for the premises upon
payment by the applicant to the Village Clerk of the actual costs thereof. No
person other than an authorized employee of the Village Water Department shall
install the water meter and payment of the charge shall be made before it is
installed.
      (3)   If a public street or alley is excavated or otherwise disturbed in
making either water or sewer connections, the property owner or applicant shall
pay for all labor and materials to repair or replace the street or alley to its
original condition.
      (4)   All permitted excavations must be completed and the street or alley
returned to its original condition within 15 days.
      (5)   This division (A) shall be published in pamphlet form and shall be
in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval, and publication
as required by law.
(Ord. 1995-08, passed 12-12-1995)
   (B)   (1)   (a)   The village shall not supply potable water to any property
outside of the corporate limits of the Village of Diamond except under the
circumstances contained herein.
         (b)   Supplying water to property outside of the corporate limits of
the village shall be discontinued 10 days from the passage of this division
(B), and the service to any such property shall be disconnected.
         (c)   The owner of each property to be disconnected from the village
water supply shall be notified in writing as soon as practically possible of
the date on which disconnection from the water supply will occur.
      (2)   The foregoing notwithstanding, the village shall not disconnect any
property from the village water supply where a contractual obligation exists to
continue to supply water to the property and the village shall continue to
supply water to the property in accordance with the terms of the contractual
obligation.
      (3)   In the event that the disconnection would be unduly burdensome,
otherwise present a particular hardship on the person(s) being supplied with
water, or where the person(s) is negotiating in good faith toward a contract
for supply of water, the Mayor shall be empowered to grant an extension of time
before water to the property will be disconnected of up to 10 days.
      (4)   This division (B) shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage and approval as provided by law and shall be published in pamphlet
form.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 8-13-2002)
   (C)   Applicants requesting connection to a water main within the village
shall pay a service connection (tap on) fee in the amount of $1,000 per
connection.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 3-9-2004) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.17 SANITARY SEWER SERVICE CONNECTION FEE.
   (A)   (1)   There is hereby established a sanitary sewer service connection
fee which shall be due and payable to the Village Clerk for connection to the
village sanitary sewer system as follows. Effective immediately, every person
connecting his or her sewage of any kind shall, upon making an application for
his or her permit, pay to the Village Clerk a permit fee according to the
following schedule:
         (a)   Single-family residence - $750;
         (b)   Duplex, triplex, or quad - $750 per unit; and
         (c)   Commercial and industrial - $1,500.
      (2)   The expense of labor and materials to install the tap or connection
to bring the sewer lines to the property line of the premises and all other
labor and materials shall be paid for by the applicant. Prior to or at the same
time the tap or connections is made to the main sewer inspection by an
authorized employee of the village will be necessary.
      (3)   If a public street or alley is excavated or otherwise disturbed in
making either sewer connections, the property owner or applicant shall pay for
all labor and materials to repair or replace the street or alley to its
original condition.
      (4)   All permitted excavations must be completed and the street or alley
returned to its original condition within 15 days.
      (5)   This section shall be published and shall be in full force and
effect from and after its passage, approval, and publication as required by law
(Ord. 1995-09, passed 12-12-1995)
   (B)   Applicants requesting connection to a sewer main within the village
shall pay a service connection (tap on) fee in the amount of $1,000 per
connection.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 3-9-2004) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.18 MONTHLY USER FEES FOR SEWER AND WATER USE.
   (A)   Fees.
      (1)   Monthly user fee; water.
         (a)   The monthly water rates shall apply to all residential and
commercial users, except as hereinafter set forth. The monthly water rate shall
be at a rate of $32.36 for the first 10,000 gallons of water used, on a
bimonthly basis, and the rate of $7.80 per 1,000 gallons of water used, on a
bimonthly basis, over 10,000 gallons.
         (b)   The monthly water rates shall apply to all R-5 Mobile Home
Districts. There shall be a minimum base rate of $32.36 per dwelling unit. The
monthly bill will be calculated by amount of water usage obtained from the
master water meter serving the mobile home park, but will not be less than the
minimum base rate multiplied by the number of dwelling units being served.
Calculations are as follows:
            1.   Number of dwelling units times $32.36 minimum base rate =
total charge; plus
            2.   All gallons used, on a bimonthly basis, over 1,830,000 gallons
will be calculated at $7.80 per 1,000 gallons.
         (c)   The monthly water rates set forth hereinabove shall be in effect
for a period of 1 year after the effective date of this section. Thereafter,
said rates shall be subject to an annual increase in an amount of 5%. The
monthly water rates shall be rounded to the nearest $.01.
      (2)   Monthly user fee; sewer.
         (a)   1.   Residential users. The following monthly sewer rates shall
apply to all residential users, except as hereinafter set forth. The monthly
sewer rate shall be at a rate of $17.44 for the first 4,000 gallons of water
used, on a bimonthly basis, and the rate of $1.50 per 1,000 gallons of water
used, on a bimonthly basis, over 4,000 gallons of water used.
            2.   Commercial users. The following monthly sewer rates shall
apply to all commercial users, except as hereinafter set forth. The monthly
sewer rate shall be a flat rate of $52.82 per commercial user.
         (b)   The following monthly sewer rates shall apply to all R-5 Mobile
Home Districts. There shall be a minimum base rate of $25.10 per dwelling unit.
The monthly bill will be calculated by amount of water usage obtained from the
master water meter serving the mobile home park, but will not be less than the
minimum base rate multiplied by the number of dwelling units being served.
Calculations are as follows:
            1.   Number of dwelling units times $25.10 minimum base rate =
total charge, plus;
            2.   All gallons used, on a bimonthly basis, over 1,830,000 gallons
will be calculated at $1.50 per 1,000 gallons.
         (c)   The monthly sewer rates set forth herein above shall be in
effect for a period of 1 year after the effective date of this section.
Thereafter, said rates shall be subject to an annual increase in an amount of
5%. The monthly sewer rates shall be rounded to the nearest $.01.
      (3)   Monthly sewer user surcharge. In addition to the monthly sewer user
fees set forth in §
50.18(A)(2), a monthly sewer surcharge rate of $15 shall be charged to all
residential users, all commercial users and all dwelling units being served in
all R-5 Mobile Home Districts.
   (B)   This section shall be in full force and effect beginning on September
1, 2014.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 3-9-2004; Am. Ord. 2006-19, passed 8-8-2006; Am. Ord.
2006-22, passed 11-14-2006; Am. Ord. 2009-12, passed 8-11-2009; Am. Ord. 2014-
09, passed 8-26-2014)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating §
50.01 shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $750 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed for each and every day during
which a violation continues or exists.
(Ord. 1993-22, passed 12-14-1993)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provisions of §
50.15 shall be fined not less than $100 and not more than $750 for each
offense. Each day that the violation continues shall be a separate offense and
shall subject the person, firm, or corporation to a like fine of not less than
$100 per day nor, more than $750.
(1995-07, passed 11-28-1995)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE, REFUSE, AND RECYCLABLES
Section
Collection
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Containers required
   
51.03   Household to provide containers
   
51.04   Materials deposited in garbage containers
   
51.05   Location of containers
   
51.06   Collection of fees; use of collection service required
   
51.07   Time of collection
   
51.08   Notification for collection
   
51.09   Fees
   
51.10   Burning prohibited
   
51.11   Recyclables
   
51.12   Unauthorized collection of recyclables
   
51.13   Nuisance
   
51.14   Effective date
   
51.15   Publication
 
   
51.99   Penalty
COLLECTION
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. The general accumulations of animal, fruit, or vegetable matter
that attend the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in, or storage of meat,
fish, fowl, fruits, or vegetables, and containers originally used for
foodstuffs.
   RECYCLABLES. Tin and aluminum cans, clear glass, brown glass, green jars and
bottles, chip board, newsprint, and #1 and #2 plastic.
   REFUSE. The general accumulations of waste materials as may be accumulated
day to day in an average residential unit, including papers, cartons, boxes,
furniture, box springs, mattresses, bath tubs, and discarded appliances, but
shall not include the items as broken concrete, building materials, rocks,
fallen trees, dirt, or any household item too large to be placed in a
compactor-type truck. Yard waste (trees, shrubs, grass clippings, and leaves)
are not considered rubbish.
   RUBBISH. Includes garbage, refuse, or both.
   YARD WASTE. Any waste materials typically derived from landscaping,
including, but not limited to, grass clippings, leaves, and shrubbery.
(Ord. 2001-M-03, passed 4-24-2001)
§ 51.02 CONTAINERS REQUIRED.
   All garbage created, accumulated, or produced shall be deposited in
containers of a type approved by the Commissioners of Public Health and Safety
of the village, equipped with suitable handles and tight-fitting covers, and
shall be watertight. Each container shall have a capacity of not less than 5
gallons and not more than 30 gallons, and shall be kept in a clean, neat, and
sanitary condition at all times.
(Ord. 2001-M-03, passed 4-24-2001) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 HOUSEHOLD TO PROVIDE CONTAINERS.
   It shall be the duty of every person in possession, charge, or control of
any place in or from which garbage is created, accumulated, or produced, to
provide, and at all times keep in a suitable place readily accessible to the
garbage collector, not more than 3 garbage containers capable of holding all
garbage which would ordinarily accumulate on the premises between the time of
successive collections. The owner of any multiple dwelling shall furnish or
require his or her tenants to furnish proper garbage containers. Garbage
containers located at multiple dwellings, if furnished by the tenants, shall be
marked so as to indicate the apartment or flat to which they belong.
(Ord. 2001-M-03, passed 4-24-2001) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 MATERIALS DEPOSITED IN GARBAGE CONTAINERS.
   Garbage, refuse, and ashes may be deposited in garbage containers. Human
waste and other potentially infectious material shall not be deposited or
placed in garbage containers unless the material is wrapped in a manner
satisfactory to the Commissioner of Public Health and Safety. Liquid garbage
shall not be deposited in the containers except in a sealed container. Kitchen
garbage shall be drained of all moisture and completely wrapped in paper or
plastic before it is placed or deposited in garbage containers.
(Ord. 2001-M-03, passed 4-24-2001) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 LOCATION OF CONTAINERS.
   No garbage containers or other containers for refuse, other than those of
the village, shall be placed, kept, stored, or located within the right-of-way
of a street or alley.
(Ord. 2001-M-03, passed 4-24-2001) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 COLLECTION OF FEES; USE OF COLLECTION SERVICE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is found that the periodic collection of garbage and refuse from
all residences in the village benefits all occupants in the village, and to the
extent that tax revenues are not sufficient to pay for the cost of the same,
the occupants or persons in possession, charge or control of any residence in
or from which garbage is created, accumulated, or produced are liable for and
shall pay the garbage collection fees established by the Village Commission.
   (B)   Garbage collection service is provided by the village, and it shall be
mandatory for all occupants or persons in possession, charge or control of
places and premises in the village in or from which “residential like” garbage
is created, accumulated, or produced to use the village’s collection service.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person other than authorized agents or
employees of the village to collect, remove, or dispose of garbage at a
residence in the village; provided, however, that nothing contained in this
chapter shall prevent the use of garbage disposal devices as provided in the
village plumbing code. Provided further, any commercial establishment within
the Village of Diamond, which generates garbage or refuse as defined herein may
contract with a private scavenger service other than that which is employed by
the village for the removal of the same.
   (D)   The Village Commission may enter into the contracts as are authorized
by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, as amended from time to time, as are necessary to
effectuate the efficient collection and disposal of garbage, refuse, and ashes
as defined herein.
(Ord. 2001-M-03, passed 4-24-2001) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 TIME OF COLLECTION.
   Collection of garbage and refuse shall be made at least once a week from
residences or as many times per week as the Commissioner of Public Health and
Safety of the village may order.
(Ord. 2001-M-03, passed 4-24-2001)
§ 51.08 NOTIFICATION FOR COLLECTION.
   All occupants, persons in possession, charge, or control of premises and
places in or upon which garbage or refuse is created, accumulated, or produced
shall notify the Commissioner of Public Health and Safety of the village that
collection of garbage from the place is required.
(Ord. 2001-M-03, passed 4-24-2001) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 FEES.
   (A)   The fees assessed for collection of garbage, refuse, and ashes in
addition to any authorized real estate tax levy (garbage tax) shall be assessed
only from residences. The Village Commission may, from time to time by
resolution, establish a schedule of fees for collection services and a copy of
the schedule shall be furnished each customer.
   (B)   (1)   Payment of the fees referred to in division (A) above shall be
paid bimonthly and shall be entered as charges against the premises for which
collection of garbage or refuse is provided and each owner, occupant, tenant,
or lessee of the premises, and the amount so fixed and charges shall be
collected in connection with and as part of the water and/or sewer bill. If
there is no such water bill or sewer bill rendered to the owner, occupant,
tenant, or lessee then they shall be billed separately.
      (2)   Should any owner, occupant, tenant or lessee fail or refuse to pay
the charges as part of the water and/or sewer when due, then the village shall
have the right to disconnect the water service to the premises against which
the garbage is assessed and/or place a lien against the premises for the
uncollected bill. If no water bill is rendered to the owner, occupant, tenant,
or lessee then the village shall place a lien against the premises for the
uncollected bill.
(Ord. 2001-M-03, passed 4-24-2001; Am. Ord. 2001-4, passed 5-22-2001; Am. Ord.
2008-06, passed 4-22-2008; Am. Ord. 2014-10, passed 8-26-2014; Am. Ord. 2020-
15, passed 4-14-2020)
§ 51.10 BURNING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall burn garbage or refuse within the village limits. Nothing
herein shall prohibit any person from burning leaves and tree limbs in
conformity with the applicable statutes of the State of Illinois, but only
during the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
(Ord. 2001-M-03, passed 4-24-2001) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.11 RECYCLABLES.
   All recyclables, as defined in any agreement between the Village of Diamond
and a scavenger service, such as tin and aluminum cans, clear glass, brown
glass, green jars and bottles, chip board, newsprint, and #1 and #2 plastic,
shall become the property of the scavenger services upon the placement of the
items upon the curb side for disposal.
(Ord. 2001-M-03, passed 4-24-2001)
§ 51.12 UNAUTHORIZED COLLECTION OF RECYCLABLES.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person or firm or
entity of any kind unauthorized by the householder or scavenger service to
collect or cause to be collected any of the recyclables items named in this
chapter from the curb-side bins.
   (B)   Any and each such collection in violation of this chapter shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense punishable as provided in this
chapter.
(Ord. 2001-M-03, passed 4-24-2001) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.13 NUISANCE.
   The keeping of garbage or refuse in containers other than containers
prescribed by this chapter, or the keeping upon premises of garbage or refuse
which is allowed to become offensive and noisome, shall constitute a public
nuisance and may be abated in the manner provided by law for the abatement of
nuisances.
(Ord. 2001-M-03, passed 4-24-2001) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.14 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective from and after its passage, approval,
and publication as provided by law.
(Ord. 2001-M-03, passed 4-24-2001)
§ 51.15 PUBLICATION.
   This chapter shall be published in pamphlet form.
(Ord. 2001-M-03, passed 4-24-2001)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, company, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be punished by a fine or not less then $75 nor more than
$750.
(Ord. 2001-M-03, passed 4-24-2001)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Water conservation measures
   
52.02   Municipal waterworks system; generally
Rates and Charges
   
52.15   Rates
   
52.16   Meters
   
52.17   Payments
   
52.18   Mobile home park estate
   
52.19   Village responsibilities of water funds
   
52.20   Effective date
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   LANDSCAPE/LANDSCAPING. Gardens, lawns, trees, shrubs, and other living
plants, excluding new sod and/or seeded turf lawns.
   SOD and/or SEEDED TURF LAWNS. Areas of mowed or cultivated grass species,
including but not limited to rye grass, fescue, bentgrass, bermuda, and/or
zoysiagrass, exceeding 100 square feet in area.
   SWIMMING POOL. As defined in the 1999 Building Officials and Code
Administrators International, Inc. (BOCA 1999 Code).
   WATER. The water provided by and obtained by a person from a water supply
system operated by the village or any third person.
   WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM. A water supply distribution system operated by
the village or a third person which provides potable water service through
water lines and mains within the village.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   The provisions of this section shall apply to all persons using
water and to all properties within the village which are connected to a water
distribution system.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall apply continuously, subject to
modifications hereof by an emergency proclamation.
   (C)   Restricted days for specified water uses.
      (1)   Except as may be otherwise imposed in the event of an emergency
proclamation, there shall be no restrictions as to days when water from a water
distribution system may be used for the following:
         (a)   Watering or sprinkling of trees where such watering or
sprinkling is done by a person using a handheld watering device;
         (b)   Vehicle and equipment washing; or
         (c)   Any other lawful use of water from the water distribution system
such as bathing, clothes washing, and other normal household uses not otherwise
specifically restricted by the provisions of this section
      (2)   Water from a water distribution system may only be used for the
watering or sprinkling of landscaping (except sod and/or seeded turf lawns
planted or installed in the then current year as hereinafter provided), and the
filling of swimming pools, as follows:
         (a)   All properties with even numbered street numbers (such as,
numbers ending in 0, 2, 4, 6, 8) may use water from the water distribution
system on even numbered calendar dates and only between the hours of 6:00 a.m.
to 10:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m.
         (b)   All properties with odd numbered street numbers (such as,
numbers ending in 1, 3, 5, 7, 9) may use water from the water distribution
system on odd numbered calendar dates and only between the hours of 6:00 a.m.
to 10:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m.
      (3)   Restrictions for sod and/or seeded turf lawns for new lawns.
Notwithstanding the restrictions set forth in subsection (2), water from the
water distribution system may be used for establishment of sod and/or seeded
turf lawns planted in the then current year for a period of 14 days after the
sod is laid or the seed is planted.
   (D)   Waste of water. No person shall allow a continuous stream of water to
run off into any gutter, ditch, drain, or street inlet while using water for
restricted purposes.
   (E)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to any
commercial or industrial entity for which use of water is necessary to continue
normal business operations, or to maintain stock or inventory, provided,
however, this exception shall not apply to any uses of water not essential to
normal business operations or the maintenance of inventory or stock or
landscape watering.
   (F)   Emergency proclamation. Whenever the water supply of the village is
diminished from any cause, including, but not limited to, prolonged dry period,
increased water demand, equipment failure, or water quality concerns, to an
amount which in the opinion of the Mayor is or is likely to become dangerous to
the health and safety of the public, the Mayor is hereby authorized and
empowered to issue an emergency proclamation in the form of a notice containing
other additional regulations or restrictions on the use of water from the water
distribution system. Upon issuing such proclamation, the Mayor shall make the
contents thereof known to the public by news release to the local newspapers
and radio media and may also notify the citizens in any other practical manner
that shall be devised. Further, the Mayor shall immediately notify all members
of the Village Board of the nature of the emergency and the regulations that
have been imposed. The emergency proclamation of the Mayor and the regulations
imposed thereby, shall remain in full force and effect until the Mayor
determines that the emergency no longer exists or until the Village Board
modifies, repeals or makes permanent the emergency proclamation, and the
regulations imposed thereby, by means of ordinance passed at any regular or
special meeting of the Village Board.
(Ord. 2001-M-02, passed 4-24-2001; Am. Ord. 2006-12, passed 6-13-2006) Penalty,
see §
52.99
§ 52.02 MUNICIPAL WATERWORKS SYSTEM; GENERALLY.
   (A)   There is hereby established an executive department of the Village of
Diamond to be known as the Water Department, and the Commission is hereby
authorized to appoint a Superintendent of the Water Department, and all other
necessary employees, and the Superintendent shall have the general management
and control of the waterworks system, subject, however, to the supervision of
the Commission.
   (B)   No water shall be turned on for use on or in any premises, until an
application therefor in writing has been made for that purpose and filed with
the Village Clerk, stating the purpose for which the water is to be used. Only
the owner in fee simple can request water to be turned on.
   (C)   No person shall in any manner obstruct the access to any stop-cock,
hydrant, or valve, or any public faucet or opening for taking water in any
street, alley, public ground, or place connected with or part of the water
system, nor pile or place any lumber, brick, or building material or other
article, thing, or hindrance whatsoever within 12 feet or the same, or so as to
in any manner hinder, delay, or obstruct the members of a fire department in
reaching the same. It shall be unlawful for any person in any manner to
interfere with or obstruct the flow, retention, storage, or authorized use of
water in the water system, reservoir, or plant, or any part thereof, or to
injure, deface, remove, or displace any water main, hydrant, service pipe,
water meter, shut-off box, public fountain, valve, engine, or building
connected with the water system, or plant, or to cause, suffer, or permit any
of these things to be done.
   (D)   No person not duly authorized shall turn the water on at any fire
hydrant or service cock, or use water therefrom when so turned on.
   (E)   All connections and water applied for hereunder, and all the water
used hereunder, shall be upon the express condition that the village shall not
be liable, nor shall any claim be made against it for damages or injury caused
by reason of the breaking of any main, branches, service pipes, apparatus or
appurtenances connected with the system or plant, or any part or portion of the
plant, or for any interruption of the supply by reason of the breakage of
machinery, or by reason of stoppage, alterations, extensions, or renewals.
   (F)   The following rules and regulations for the consumers of water and
plumbers are hereby adopted and established.
      (1)   Application for permit. No water shall be furnished or supplied to
any consumer for any purpose whatever, until the consumer shall make
application therefor. Applications for water service connections must be made
in writing to the Village Clerk by the owner or agent of the property to be
served. The application shall state the location of the house or the premises
to be served, the legal description of the premises, the size of pipe required,
and the approximate location where the service will enter the premises. The
owner or agent shall pay to the Village Clerk the permit fee and deposit
hereinafter provided at the time of making the application.
      (2)   Permit. The application for service shall thereupon be referred to
the Building Inspector who shall issue a permit for the making of a tap or
connection.
      (3)   Village to furnish materials. When the permit fee herein provided
has been paid in full, the village shall furnish to the owner a corporation
cock, shut-off box, and buffalo box. No corporation cock, shut-off box, or
buffalo box shall be used on any service connection other than the ones
furnished by the village.
      (4)   Permit fee. The amount of the permit fee shall be the total actual
cost to the village of the corporation cock, shut-off box, and buffalo box
furnished by the village.
      (5)   Work by licensed plumber. All plumbing work in making taps or
connections to the water mains shall be done by a duly licensed plumber.
      (6)   Work at owner’s cost.  All work in making water service
connections, including excavation of the street, tapping the main and plumbing,
and refilling and paving the street, shall be done with village approval and
all at the direct expense of the property owner. The property owner is
responsible for the maintenance of the service line and the connection. The
failure on the part of any property owner receiving water service to maintain
the connection or the service line causing water waste, will be cause for
discontinuance of service or for the repairing of the same by the Public Works
Department and charging the costs thereof to the property owner. Necessary
repairs to service lines shall be made by the property owner within 7 days of
written notice from the village. If the property owner refuses or fails to make
necessary repairs within said time period, the village shall have the right to
shut off water service to the property. In the event the village determines, in
its sole opinion, that the water waste is a threat to the public health and
safety of the village residents, the village shall shut off water service to
the property without prior notice to the property owner. In the event the
village elects to repair the service line using its Public Works Department,
the owner shall reimburse the village for (i) its cost of labor at the Grundy
County Prevailing Wage rate; (ii) the actual cost of materials used for the
repair; and (iii) a 5% administrative fee.
      (7)   Location of connection. No person, firm, or corporation shall make
any excavation in any street for a water service connection at any place other
than that designated by the Building Inspector. All the excavations shall be
properly guarded with barricades and warning lights.
      (8)   Inspection. No excavation for water service connection shall be
filled, and no connection shall be covered until the connection or any part
thereof has been inspected and approved by the Plumbing Inspector.
      (9)   Paving. No paving of an excavation shall be made until the re-
opening of the street and preparation for the for repairing, laying, or
relaying mains, hydrants, or other connections or repairing any part of the
water system, or from failure of the water supply, or by increasing the water
pressure at any time, or from concentration or restricted use of water as
above.
   (G)   No owner or plumber shall be permitted to conduct water pipes into any
2 distinct premises or tenements unless separate and distinct stop-cocks shall
be placed on the outside of the premises along the property line opposite the
same, nor shall any pipe be allowed to cross lots or buildings to adjoining
premises.
   (H)   The right is reserved to suspend the use of lawn fountains and hoses
for sprinkling lawns and gardens, whenever in the opinion of the Village
Commission public exigencies require it.
   (I)   In all cases where, 1 service pipe supplies 2 or more separate
consumers in a building, each consumer shall be charged separately and the
charge shall be payable by the owner of the premises or building.
   (J)   This section after its passage and approval shall, within 10 days of
the passage and approval, be published by posting and shall become effective as
provided by law.
(Ord. passed 7-11-1960 ; Am. Ord. 2019-21, passed 11-12-2019 ) Penalty, see §
52.99
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.15 RATES.
   Upon the passage of this Water Department subchapter, rates and charges will
hereby be established for the use of and for the service supplied by the
Village of Diamond Water Department. A rate schedule at the end of this
subchapter will show a flat rate until all meters are installed and are
determined to be working effectively. At that point, a new rate schedule will
be amended by the Village Commission.
(Ord. 1996-2, passed - -)
§ 52.16 METERS.
   (A)   Established premises. All established premises using water from the
Village of Diamond water supply must be equipped with an adequate gallon water
meter which must be purchased from the Village of Diamond and installed by the
village contracted plumber; provided that the water service may be supplied by
the village at a flat rate of charge until the water meter shall be installed
and ready for service.
   (B)   New premises. All new constructed premises will have an adequate
gallon water meter which must be purchased from the Village of Diamond and
installed by the homeowner’s contracted plumber. The meter will be inspected
and passed by the Village Inspector before any water can be turned on to this
premise.
   (C)   Meter location. The meter shall be installed at a location within the
premise which will provide easy access for reading the meter, and the location
shall not be within 5 feet of any hot water heater. There shall also be
installed a separate meter for each individual unit (residential, commercial,
office, or industrial) contained in multiple-unit buildings.
   (D)    Unpaid water bills. Upon the installation of the water meter, the
water will remain “off” until all debts and money concerns or arrangements for
payments to the village are made by the owner of the property.
   (E)   Meter repairs; normal use. Upon proper installation of the adequate
gallon water meter, it will become the property of the village. If the meter
fails to operate properly under normal use, the village will repair or replace
the meter.
   (F)   Meter repair; malicious damage. The owners of property upon which
meters are installed will be held responsible for any willful or malicious
damage to the meters, and the property owners will also be held responsible for
any damage sustained by freezing or caused by hot water backing through same
and must bear all costs of repairing the meters when the same become damaged
through any cause herein designated.
   (G)   Reading meters. The village will read meters each month on a
designated day so that water bills may be sent out on or before the first day
of each month. Meter readings will be in 1,000-gallon increments, thus dropping
the numbers in black and the dial reading (or hundreds, tens, and units
readings). These numbers of gallons will be included in the following month’s
water bill.
   (H)   Access to water meters. The person and/or property owner receiving
water service shall provide the village, or its designated contractor,
reasonable access to the meter for inspection, reading, testing, service, or
replacement, upon request. It shall be the responsibility of the person and/or
property owner receiving water service to provide the necessary time to the
village, or its designated contractor, during normal business hours (Monday
through Friday between 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m., Saturday 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.,
or any other time period agreed to by the property owner and the village or its
designated contractor, excluding legal holidays) to access the water meter for
such inspection, reading, testing, service, or replacement. In the event access
to the water meter is denied either by verbal or written notification, or by no
response to a written notice, the village shall cause disconnection of water
service until such access has been provided. In addition, if water service is
disconnected, all required fees and penalties set forth in this chapter, the
reconnection fee of $50 and a water meter installation fee of $250, when
applicable, shall be paid in full prior to reconnection of the water service.
      (1)   Written notice to disconnect water service and shall contain the
following:
         (a)   Name, address, and account number of the person and/or property
owner receiving water service.
         (b)   The date of the notice and the date of the disconnection.
         (c)   A statement of the prior attempts by the village to obtain
access to the water meter for inspection, reading, testing, service, or
replacement.
      (2)   No such written notice of disconnection shall be given until three
prior written attempts over a three week period have been sent to the person
and/or property owner receiving water service to obtain access to the water
meter for inspection, reading, testing, service, or replacement.
(Ord. 1996-2, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2022-04, passed 3-22-2022)
§ 52.17 PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Owner’s responsibilities. The owner of the premises, the occupant
thereof, and the user of the water service shall be jointly and severally
liable to pay for the service on the premises, and the service is furnished to
the premises by the Village of Diamond only upon the condition that the owner
of the premises, occupant, and the user of the service are jointly and
severally liable therefor to the village.
   (B)   Billing and payment. All water and sewer charges shall be billed
bimonthly which may be included on the billing statement showing the other
services provided by the village. The bill for services must be paid on or
before the last day of the month in which the bill is mailed. If the last day
of the month falls on a weekend day, then the payment is due on the following
Monday.
   (C)   Multiple dwelling units. In any building which contains 2 or more
individual dwelling units which are not owner-occupied, the village, in its
sole discretion, can require the property owner to pay the bill (1 master water
meter) or bills (separate water meters for each dwelling unit) with 1 bank
draft from the property owner. In the event the property owner fails to pay
with 1 bank draft, the property owner shall pay to the village an
administrative fee of $35 per hour or fraction thereof.
   (D)   Estimated billing. If for some reason the village cannot obtain meter
readings, the village will estimate the consumer’s water bill by using the
gallons that the consumer used the preceding month. Payment will be adjusted in
the month the water meter is read.
   (E)   Late payments. If the charges for water service and other services are
not paid by the twentieth after the rendition of the bill for the services,
then a penalty of 10% of the amount of the bill shall be added thereto.
   (F)   Thirty days late. In the event said rates or charges for water and
sewer services are not paid on or before the last day of the month in which the
bill is mailed, such charges shall be deemed and are hereby declared to be
delinquent, and thereafter such delinquencies shall constitute liens upon the
real estate for which such services are supplied, and the Village Clerk is
hereby authorized and directed to file sworn statements showing such
delinquencies in the Recorder of Deeds of Grundy County, or of Will County,
Illinois. The filing of such statements shall be deemed notice for the payment
of such charges for such services.
   (G)   Discontinued water service. If the charges for water and sewer
services are not paid on or before the fifteenth day of the month following the
month that the bill is mailed for such services, such services shall be
discontinued without further notice and shall not be reinstated until all past
due bills including the penalties thereon are paid in full together with
payment made of $50 for reinstating such service.
(Ord. 1996-2, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2008-02, passed 2-12-2008; Am. Ord. 2014-
12, passed 8-26-2014)
§ 52.18 MOBILE HOME PARK ESTATE.
   Any mobile home park estate located in the village shall maintain their own
piping or distribution system within the confined of the park estate.
(Ord. 1996-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.19 VILLAGE RESPONSIBILITIES OF WATER FUNDS.
   (A)   Collecting. It is hereby made the duty of the Village Clerk to render
bills for water service and for all other charges in connection therewith, and
to collect all moneys due thereon.
   (B)   Depositing. All revenues and moneys derived from the operation of the
water works system shall be held by the Village Clerk separate and apart from
his or her private funds and separate and apart from any other funds of the
village, and of all the sums, without any deductions whatsoever shall be
deposited in a separate fund designated as the “Water Works Revenue Fund of the
Village of Diamond” not more than 10 days after the receipt of the same or at
the more frequent interval as may from time to time be directed by the Village
Commission.
   (C)   Administering. The Village Treasurer shall be accountable for all the
revenues from the water works system and all other funds and moneys incident to
the operation of the system. The Village Treasurer shall administer the fund in
every respect in the manner provided by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, and all other laws
there unto enabling.
   (D)   Auditing. The Village Treasurer shall establish a proper system of
accounts and shall keep proper records, books, and accounts, in which complete
and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the water
works system, and at regular annual intervals the Village Commission shall
cause to be made an audit by an independent auditing concern of the books to
show the receipts and disbursements of the water works system.
   (E)   Filing. A copy of this subchapter, properly certified by the Village
Clerk, shall be filed in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of Grundy and Will
Counties, Illinois. This shall be deemed notice to all owners of real estate of
their liability for water service supplied to any occupant or user of the
services on their properties.
(Ord. 1996-2, passed - -)
§ 52.20 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect upon its passage and
publication as provided by law.
(Ord. 1996-2, passed - -)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found to have violated any of the provisions of §
52.01 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount of not more than
$50 for a first offense, and not less than $250) and not more than $750 for
each subsequent offense. A separate violation of §
52.01 shall be deemed to have been committed on each day during which a
violation occurs or is permitted to continue. The village shall have the right
to file legal action to enjoin activities which are in violation of the
provisions of §
52.01.
(Ord. 2002-02, passed 4-23-2002; Am. Ord. 2006-12, passed 6-13-2006)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any of the rules
and regulations provided for in §
52.02(C), (D), (F), and (G) shall, upon conviction, in addition to the
enforcement of the forfeiture and liabilities therein contained, pay a fine of
not less than $1 nor more than $200, and shall, in addition, be liable for
damages done by acts prohibited by §
52.02(C), and for water used by acts prohibited by §
52.02(D).
(Ord. passed 7-11-1960)
CHAPTER 53: CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
Section
   
53.01   Generally
   
53.02   Purpose
   
53.03   Application
   
53.04   Policy
   
53.05   Definitions
   
53.06   Water system
   
53.07   Cross-connection prohibited
   
53.08   Survey and investigations
   
53.09   Where protection is required
   
53.10   Type of protection required
   
53.11   Backflow prevention devices
   
53.12   Inspection and maintenance
   
53.13   Booster pumps
   
53.14   Violations
   
53.15   Effective date
§ 53.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   All plumbing installed within the Village of Diamond shall be
installed in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890.
If in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code or in the judgment of the
Superintendent of Water, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the public water supply system, the Superintendent of Water
will give notice to the water customer to install such an approved device
immediately. The water customer shall, at his or her own expense, install such
an approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance with the
Illinois Plumbing Code, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and all
applicable local regulations, and shall have inspections and tests made of the
approved devices upon installation and as required by the Illinois Plumbing
Code, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and local regulations.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the Village of Diamond may enter the supply or distribution
system of the municipality, unless the private, auxiliary or emergency water
supply and the method of connection and use of the supply shall have been
approved by the Superintendent of Water and the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Water to cause surveys
and investigations to be made of commercial, industrial, and other properties
served by the public water supply to determine whether actual or potential
hazards to the public water supply may exist. The surveys and investigations
shall be made a matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every 2
years, or as often as the Superintendent of Water shall deem necessary. Records
of the surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at
least 5 years.
   (D)   The approved cross-connection control device inspector shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the public water supply or distribution system of the Village of Diamond for
the purpose of verifying the presence or absence of cross-connections, and that
the Water Superintendent or his or her authorized agent shall have the right to
enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public
water supply or distribution system of the Village of Diamond for the purpose
of verifying information submitted by the customer regarding the required
cross-connection control inspection. On demand, the owner, lessees, or
occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the Superintendent of
Water any information which he or she may request regarding the piping system
or systems or water use on the property. The refusal of the information, when
demanded, shall, within the discretion of the Superintendent of Water, be
deemed evidence of the presence of improper connections as provided in this
chapter.
   (E)   The Superintendent of Water of the Village of Diamond is hereby
authorized and directed to discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant
thereof, the water service to any property wherein any connection in violation
of the provisions of this chapter is known to exist, and to take the other
precautionary measures as he or she may deem necessary to eliminate any danger
of contamination of the public water supply distribution mains. Water service
to the property shall not be restored until the conditions have been eliminated
or corrected in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and until a
reconnection fee of $2,000 is paid to the Village of Diamond. Immediate
disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the Superintendent of
Water is assured that imminent danger of harmful contamination of the public
water supply system exists. The action shall be followed by written
notification of the cause of disconnection. Immediate disconnection without
notice to any party can be effected to prevent actual or anticipated
contamination or pollution of the public water supply, provided that, in the
reasonable opinion of Superintendent of Water or the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency, the action is required to prevent actual or potential
contamination or pollution of the public water supply. Neither the public water
supply, the Superintendent of Water, or its agents or assigns shall be liable
to any customer for any injury, damages, or lost revenues which may result from
termination of the customer’s water supply in accordance with the terms of this
chapter, whether or not the termination was with or without notice.
   (F)   The consumer responsible for back siphoned or back pressured material
or contamination through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply
system occurs through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed,
maintained, or repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear
the cost of clean-up of the potable water supply system.
(Ord. 1991-14, passed 8-27-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these rules and regulations is:
   (A)   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer’s water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system;
   (B)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-connections,
actual or potential, between the public or consumer’s potable water system and
nonpotable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or systems containing
substances of unknown or questionable safety; and
   (C)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer’s potable water systems.
(Ord. 1991-14, passed 8-27-1991)
§ 53.03 APPLICATION.
   These rules and regulations shall apply to all premises served by the public
potable water supply system of the Village of Diamond.
(Ord. 1991-14, passed 8-27-1991)
§ 53.04 POLICY.
   (A)   The owner or official custodian shall be responsible for protection of
the public water supply system from contamination due to backflow or back-
siphonage of contaminants through the customer’s water service connection. If,
in the judgment of the Superintendent of Water or his or her authorized
representative, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the
safety of the public water supply system, the Superintendent of Water shall
give notice to the consumer to install the approved backflow prevention device
at each service connection to the premises. The consumer shall immediately
install the approved device or devices at his or her own expense; failure,
refusal, or inability on the part of the consumer to install the device or
devices immediately shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water service to
the premises until the device or devices have been installed. The consumer
shall retain records of installation, maintenance, testing, and repair as
required in §
53.12 below for a period of at least 5 years.
   (B)   The Superintendent of Water may require the consumer to submit a
cross-connection inspection report to the Village of Diamond to assist in
determining whether or not service line protection will be required. All cross-
connection inspections shall be conducted by a cross-connection control device
inspector certified by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
(Ord. 1991-14, passed 8-27-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY. Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   APPROVED. Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research
Foundation for Cross-Connection Control of the University of Southern
California, Association of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works
Association, American National Standards Institute or certified by the National
Sanitation Foundation.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any water source or system on or available to the
premise other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
purveyor’s public water supply system; or water from a source such as wells,
lakes, or streams, or process fluid; or used water. These waters may be
polluted or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or
system over which the water purveyor does not have control.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances into
the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method, or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in Illinois must meet the standards of the Illinois
Plumbing Code and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   CONSUMER or CUSTOMER. The owner, official custodian, or person in control of
any premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONSUMER’S WATER SYSTEM. Any water system located on the customer’s
premises. A building plumbing system is considered to be a customer’s water
system.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
   CROSS-CONNECTION.
      (1)   Any physical connection or arrangement between 2 otherwise separate
piping systems, 1 of which contains potable water and the other a substance of
unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there may be a flow from 1
system into the other.
      (2)   DIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection formed when a water
system is physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
      (3)   INDIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection through which an
unknown substance can be force drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a
safe potable water system.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of single independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE Standard 1015. A DOUBLE CHECK VALVE
ASSEMBLY must include tight shutoff valves located at each end of the assembly
and suitable connections for testing the water-tightness of each check valve.
   FIXED PROPER AIR GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device, or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well-
being of consumers. The word “sever,” as used to qualify “health hazard,” means
a hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
   INSPECTION. A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping, and appurtenances, appliances, and installations
of a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the Illinois Plumbing
Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890.
   NON-POTABLE WATER. Water that does not meet drinking water quality standards
specified in 35 Ill. Adm. Code 611, Primary Drinking Water Standards, and is
not suitable for human consumption or culinary use, or is of unknown quality.
(77 Illinois Administrative Code 890.120)
   PLUMBING. The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration, or
extension of a plumbing system by any person. PLUMBING includes all piping,
fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes,
including without limitation lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a
private water supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley, or
at the curb to, within, and about any building or buildings where a person or
persons live, work, or assemble. PLUMBING includes all piping, from discharge
of pumping units to and including pressure tanks in water supply systems.
PLUMBING includes all piping, fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a
building drain and a sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any
building or buildings where a person or persons live, work, or assemble from
the point of connection of the building drain to the building sewer or private
sewage disposal system 5 feet beyond the foundation walls.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological, or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as
to constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   POTABLE WATER. Water that is safe for human consumption and meets the water
quality standards of 35 Ill. Adm. Code 611, Primary Drinking Water Standards.
(77 Illinois Administrative Code 890.120)
   POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION. A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout, or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
   PROCESS FLUID(S). Any fluid or solution which may be chemically,
biologically, or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration
such as would constitute a health, pollutional, or system hazard if introduced
into the public or a consumer’s potable water system. This includes but is not
limited to:
      (1)   Polluted or contaminated waters;
      (2)   Process waters;
      (3)   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which
may have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
      (4)   Cooling waters;
      (5)   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells,
lakes, streams, or irrigation systems;
      (6)   Chemicals in solution or suspension; and
      (7)   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis, and other liquid and gaseous fluids
used in industrial or other processes, or for firefighting purposes.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. All mains, pipes, and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use and which serve at least 15 service connections or which regularly serve at
least 25 persons at least 60 days per year. A public water supply is either a
“community water supply.”
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device containing a
minimum of 2 independently acting check valves together with an automatically
operated pressure differential relief valve located between the 2 check valves
and approved under ASSE Standard 1013. During normal flow and at the cessation
of normal flow, the pressure between these 2 checks shall be less than the
supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the differential
relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to maintain the
pressure between the check valves at less than the supply pressure. The unit
must include tightly closing shutoff valves located at each end of the device,
and each device shall be fitted with properly located test cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances,
at the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
   SURVEY. The collection of information pertaining to a customer’s piping
system regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply
system and must include the location, type, and most recent inspection and
testing date of all cross-connection control devices and method located within
that customer’s piping system. The survey must be in written form, and should
not be an actual plumbing inspection.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer’s potable water system.
   USED WATER. Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a
consumer’s water system after it has passed through the service connection and
is no longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The owner or official custodian of a public water system.
(Ord. 1991-14, passed 8-27-1991)
§ 53.06 WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The water system shall be considered as made up of 2 parts: the public
water supply system and the consumer’s water system.
   (B)   The public water supply system shall consist of the source facilities
and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the
potable water system under the control of the Superintendent of Water up to the
point where the consumer’s water system begins.
   (C)   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
   (D)   The public water supply distribution system shall include the network
of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer’s water
system.
   (E)   The consumer’s water system shall include all parts of the facilities
beyond the service connection used to convey water from the public water supply
distribution system to points of use.
(Ord. 1991-14, passed 8-27-1991)
§ 53.07 CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited, except when and where approved cross-connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested, and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   (B)   (1)   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable
portion of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better
bacteriological and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis
by the Agency.
      (2)   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply.
(Ord. 1991-14, passed 8-27-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.08 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The consumer’s premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
approved cross-connection control device inspector for the inspection of the
presence or absence of cross-connections within the consumer’s premises, and
testing, repair, and maintenance of cross-connection control devices within the
consumer’s premises.
   (B)   On request by the Superintendent of Water, or his or her authorized
representative, the consumer shall furnish information regarding the piping
system or systems or water use within the customer’s premises. The consumer’s
premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the Superintendent of Water
for the verification of information submitted by the inspection consumer to the
public water supply custodian regarding cross-connection inspection results.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on his or her premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross-connections to his or her water
system through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or her
or the public potable water system. All cross-connection control or other
plumbing inspections must be conducted in accordance with ILCS Ch. 225, Act
320, § 3.
   (D)   It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow
into the public water system by ensuring that:
      (1)   All cross-connections are removed, or approved cross-connection
control devices are installed for control of backflow and back-siphonage;
      (2)   Cross-connection control devices shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer’s instructions;
      (3)   Cross-connection control devices shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least annually by a person approved by the Agency as a
cross-connection control device inspector (CCCDI). The inspection of mechanical
devices shall include physical testing in accordance with the manufacturer’s
instructions; and
      (4)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
         (a)   Date of each test;
         (b)   Name and approval number of person performing the test;
         (c)   Test results;
         (d)   Repairs or servicing required;
         (e)   Repairs and date completed; and
         (f)   Serving performed and dated completed.
(Ord. 1991-14, passed 8-27-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.09 WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all
connections to the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77
Ill. Adm. Code 890, and the Agency’s regulations, 35 Ill. Adm. Code 680.
      (2)   In addition, an approved backflow prevention device shall be
installed on each service line to a consumer’s water system serving premises,
where in the judgment of the Superintendent of Water, actual or potential
hazards to the public water supply system exist.
   (B)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless the auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the Superintendent of Water and
the source is approved by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency;
      (2)   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the Superintendent of Water;
      (3)   Premises having internal cross-connections that, in the judgment of
the Superintendent of Water and/or the Cross-Connection Control Device
Inspector, are not correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it
impractical to determine whether or not cross-connections exist;
      (4)   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey; and/or
      (5)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or re-established.
   (C)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code
890, and the Agency’s regulations, 35 Ill. Adm. Code 653. In addition, an
approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to
a consumer’s water system serving, but not necessarily limited to, the
following types of facilities unless the Superintendent of Water determines
that no actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system exists:
      (1)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes;
      (2)   Laboratories;
      (3)   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities;
      (4)   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or storm water
pumping stations;
      (5)   Food or beverage processing plants;
      (6)   Chemical plants;
      (7)   Metal plating industries;
      (8)   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
      (9)   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactions;
      (10)   Car washes;
      (11)   Pesticide, or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks; and
      (12)   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks.
(Ord. 1991-14, passed 8-27-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.10 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The type of protection required under §
53.09 shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists as follows.
      (1)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that
could cause a severe health hazard.
      (2)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or health hazard.
      (3)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or a double check valve
assembly shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to
health.
   (B)   The type of protection required under §
53.09 shall be an approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device.
   (C)   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for a
fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be
installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply when:
      (1)   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant, or
other chemicals;
      (2)   Water is pumped into the system from another source;
      (3)   Water flows by gravity from a non-potable source, or water can be
pumped into the fire safety system from any other source; or
      (4)   There is a connection whereby another source can be introduced into
the fire safety system.
   (D)   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines
and a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines.
(Ord. 1991-14, passed 8-27-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.11 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by these rules and
regulations shall be approved by the Research Foundation for Cross-Connection
Control of the University of Southern California, American Water Works
Association, American Society of Sanitary Engineering, or American National
Standards Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be in
compliance with applicable industry specification.
   (B)   (1)   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance
with the manufacturer’s instructions.
      (2)   Maintenance as recommended by the manufacturer of the device shall
be performed. Manufacturer’s maintenance manual shall be available on-site.
(Ord. 1991-14, passed 8-27-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.12 INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by these regulations are installed to have
inspection, tests, maintenance, and repair made in accordance with the
following schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need or are
specified in manufacturer’s instructions.
      (1)   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document
that a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of
the service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or
bypassed air gaps shall be made within 24 hours.
      (2)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at time
of installation and at least annually thereafter, and required service
performed within 5 days.
      (3)   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within 5 days.
   (B)   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
Agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
   (C)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of the most
recent test or visual inspection, name of tester, and type and date of repairs.
   (D)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      (1)   Date of each test or visual inspection;
      (2)   Name and approval number of persons performing the test or visual
inspection;
      (3)   Test results;
      (4)   Repairs or servicing required;
      (5)   Repairs and date completed; and
      (6)   Servicing performed and date completed.
   (E)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay as required by division (A) above.
   (F)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed, or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
Superintendent of Water.
   (G)   All backflow assembly test reports shall be forwarded to the Director
of Public Works as indicated by the Director of Public Works.
(Ord. 1991-14, passed 8-27-1991; Am. Ord. 2018-05, passed 3-27-2018) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 53.13 BOOSTER PUMPS.
   (A)   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, the pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cut-off
device designed to shut-off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to 20 psi or less.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low
pressure cut-off device in proper working order and to certify to the
Superintendent of Water, at least once a year, that the device is operable.
(Ord. 1991-14, passed 8-27-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.14 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Superintendent of Water shall deny or discontinue, after
reasonable notice to the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises
wherein any backflow prevention device required by these regulations is not
installed, tested, maintained, and repaired in a manner acceptable to the
Superintendent of Water, or if it is found that the backflow prevention device
has been removed or bypassed, or if an unprotected cross-connection exists on
the premises, or if a low pressure cut-off required by these regulations is not
installed and maintained in working order.
   (B)   Water service to the premises shall not be restored until the consumer
has corrected or eliminated the conditions or defects in conformance with these
regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Water, and the
required reconnection fee is paid.
   (C)   Water serviced to the premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated the conditions or defects on conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of
Utilities/Operations.
   (D)   Neither the Village of Diamond, the Superintendent of Water, or its
agents or assigns, shall be liable to any customers of the Village of Diamond
for any injury, damages, or lost revenues which may result from termination of
the customer’s water supply in accordance with the terms of this chapter,
whether or not the termination of the water supply was with or without notice.
   (E)   The consumer responsible for back-siphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained, or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
clean-up of the potable water supply system.
   (F)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall
be served with written notice stating the notice of the violation and providing
a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender
shall, within the period of time stated in the notice, permanently cease all
violation.
   (G)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, in
addition to the fine provided, shall become liable to the village for any
expense, loss, or damage occasioned by the village by reason of the violation,
whether the same was caused before or after notice.
(Ord. 1991-14, passed 8-27-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.15 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after upon its
passage and publication, in accordance with ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-4.
(Ord. 1991-14, passed 8-27-1991)
CHAPTER 54: SANITARY SEWERS
Section
   
54.01   Sanitary sewers, prohibited connections and flows
   
54.02   Inspection and penalties
§ 54.01 SANITARY SEWERS, PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS AND FLOWS.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this section that the entry of extraneous flows
of whatsoever nature into the sanitary sewer system of the village be
prohibited and be disconnected, whether such entry may be occurring
accidentally or knowingly. Extraneous flows are those flows other than domestic
sewage or industrial waste, including, without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, ground waters, surface waters, storm waters, spring waters and other
drainage or clear waters. Only sewage shall be permitted to enter into said
sanitary sewer system.
   (B)   Prohibited acts.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to discharge or cause to be discharged,
directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewer system of the village any
matter other than sewage; and, without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, it shall be unlawful to discharge or cause to be discharged,
directly or indirectly, any ground waters, surface waters, storm waters, spring
waters, other clear waters, or any other extraneous flows of whatsoever nature.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to make a connection or to maintain or operate
a connection which serves any home, building or any other establishment,
premises or facilities, and which contributes, directly or indirectly, to the
sanitary sewer system of the village, any ground waters, surface waters, storm
waters, spring waters, other clear waters or any other extraneous flows of
whatsoever nature.
   (C)   All drains, pumps, or connections designed or intended to receive and
discharge ground waters, surface waters, storm waters, spring waters, other
clear waters and other drainage or extraneous flows of whatsoever nature, shall
be considered illegal connections if they discharge directly or indirectly into
the village sanitary sewer system. Such illegal connections include, but are
not limited to, roof drains, down spouts, footing drains, areaway drains, drain
tiles (and sump pumps used to collect and discharge same), yard drains, catch
basins and inlets, and sump pumps used to discharge spring waters from
basements or other areas, and any such connections shall not be allowed to
discharge directly or indirectly into the sanitary sewers of the village.
   (D)   The proper maintenance and operation of a building service sewer,
house connection or sanitary sewer line to the point of connection to the
village sanitary sewer system shall be the responsibility of the owner of the
premises served by said sanitary sewer lines. Maintenance means keeping the
sanitary sewer connection, sewer lines or other sewer facilities or structures
in satisfactory working condition and good state of repair (including but not
limited to preventing any obstruction or extraneous materials or flows from
entering said facilities, protecting said facilities from any damage and
keeping same free from defects or malfunctions), and making necessary
provisions and taking necessary precautions to assure that said sewer
facilities are at all times capable of satisfactorily performing the services
and adequately discharging the functions and producing the final results and
purposes said facilities are intended to perform, discharge or produce.
   (E)   All down spouts or roof drains shall discharge onto the ground or
connect to the storm sewer, drainage ditches, or other drainage systems.
Footing drains shall be connected to sump pumps and discharge shall be made
into storm sewers, drainage ditches, or other drainage systems. Sump pumps
installed to receive and discharge ground waters or other storm waters shall be
connected to the storm sewer or discharge into a drainage ditch or other
drainage systems. Sump pumps installed to receive and discharge floor drain
flow, laundry tubs, or other sanitary sewage shall be connected to the sanitary
sewers. A sump pump shall be used for 1 function only, either the discharge of
storm waters or the discharge of sanitary sewage.
(Ord. 2016-10, passed 7-26-2016)
§ 54.02 INSPECTION AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   The village shall cause to be made periodic visual outside inspections
of all properties within the village, with specific attention to downspouts,
roof drains and other visible or outside connections and shall request the
property owner or property occupant to permit entry into the premises for the
making of additional inspection of the premises to ascertain if illegal
connections are present. Upon completion of the visual outside and inside
inspection, the village will advise the property owner, in writing, if any
illegal connections are observed, and will advise on the matter of corrections
for compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Within 90 days after said
written notice to the property owner by the village of the presence of illegal
connections, the property owner shall, at his/her expense, disconnect all
illegal connections observed; and all discharges of extraneous flows into the
sanitary sewer system, directly or indirectly, shall be discontinued. The
village will, at no expense to the owner, make further inspection of the
corrections to insure compliance with this chapter. In the event the property
owner fails to provide evidence of corrections within said 90 day period, the
village shall commence action to terminate water and sanitary sewer service to
the property in non-compliance.
   (B)   If entrance to property is denied an employee or agent of the village,
the village shall serve notice requiring, within a period of 60 days, a written
affidavit by a Licensed Professional Engineer that the sanitary sewer system of
the subject property complies in all respects to the requirements and
specifications of this chapter and that no storm waters, surface waters, ground
waters, spring waters, other clear waters, any other extraneous flows of
whatsoever nature or any flows other than wastewater are discharged into the
sanitary sewer system from the subject property. In the event the property
owner fails to provide the aforementioned affidavit within 60 days, the village
shall commence action to terminate water and sanitary sewer service to the
property remaining in non-compliance.
   (C)   In the event any property is in non-compliance with the provisions of
divisions (A) or (B), that property shall be deemed continuing in non-
compliance until there is paid to the village a sum equal to all costs incurred
by the village, including but not limited to clerical costs, mailing costs,
service fees, attorney's fees, court costs, and all other reasonable fees and
expenses incurred in commencing action to terminate the water and sanitary
sewer service to the property or in terminating or restoring water and sanitary
sewer service to the property in non-compliance.
   (D)   In addition to visual inspections on the outside and inside of the
premises, the village may make other lawful tests and inspections of the
sanitary sewer system as it deems necessary in order to locate such illegal
connections and sources of extraneous flows as may exist. The village, at its
option, may also invoke other legal powers vested in it or implied by the
Illinois Compiled Statutes for the protection of the health and welfare of the
public, and institute such legal action as it deems necessary to discover and
order the disconnection of any illegal connections that may exist.
(Ord. 2016-10, passed 7-26-2016)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   RULES OF OPERATION
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   MOTORCYCLES AND BICYCLES
      
74.   PEDESTRIANS
      
75.   EQUIPMENT; LOADS
      
76.   MOTOR VEHICLE OFFENSES
      
77.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
78.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
In General
   
70.01   Definitions
Obedience to and Effect of Traffic Laws
   
70.10   Obedience to police officers
   
70.11   Public officers and employees to obey traffic code; exceptions
   
70.12   Traffic laws apply to persons riding animals or driving animal-drawn
vehicles
   
70.13   Fleeing or attempting to elude police officer
Traffic Signs, Signals, and Markings
   
70.30   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
70.31   Traffic-control signal legend
   
70.32   Pedestrian-control signals
   
70.33   Lane-control signals
   
70.34   Flashing signals
   
70.35   Display of unauthorized signs, signals, markings, or advertising signs
   
70.36   Interference with official traffic-control devices or railroad signs or
signals
   
70.37   Unlawful use or damage to highways, appurtenances, and structures
   
70.38   Unlawful possession of highway sign or marker
   
70.39   Zones of quiet
   
70.40   No-turning signs and turning markers
   
70.41   Stop and yield signs
 
   
70.99   Penalty
IN GENERAL
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   ALLEY. A public way within a block, generally giving access to the rear of
lots or buildings, and not used for general traffic circulation.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-102)
   ARTERIAL STREET. Any U.S. or state numbered route, controlled-access
highway, or other major radial or circumferential street or highway designated
by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions as part of a major
arterial system of streets or highways.
(ILCS Ch. 70, Act 1205, § 3-9)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Emergency vehicles of village departments or
public service corporations as are designated or authorized by proper local
authorities; police vehicles; vehicles of the Fire Department; vehicles of a
HazMat or technical rescue team authorized by a county board under ILCS Ch. 55,
Act 5, § 5-1127; ambulances; vehicles of the Illinois Emergency Management
Agency; and vehicles of the Illinois Department of Public Health.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-105)
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having 2 tandem wheels except scooters and similar devices.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-106)
   BUS. Every motor vehicle, other than a commuter van, designed for carrying
more than 10 persons.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-107)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway, when
within 600 feet along the highway there are buildings in use for business or
industrial purposes, including but not limited to hotels, banks, or office
buildings, railroad stations, and public buildings which occupy at least 300
feet of frontage on one side, or 300 feet collectively on both sides of the
highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-108)
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle operated for the transportation of persons
or property in the furtherance of any commercial or industrial enterprise, for-
hire or not-for-hire, but not including a commuter van, a vehicle used in a
ridesharing arrangement when being used for that purpose, or a recreational
vehicle not being used commercially.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-111.8)
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street, or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same, except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
the highway, street, or roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-112)
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway, and in the absence of a sidewalk on one side of a
highway, that part of the highway included within the extension of the lateral
line of the existing sidewalk to the side of the highway without the sidewalk,
with the extension forming a right angle to the centerline of the highway;
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface,
placed in accordance with the provisions in the manual adopted by the
Department of Transportation as authorized in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-301.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-113)
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-116)
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE. A self-balancing, 2 non-tandem
wheeled device designed to transport only 1 person with an electric propulsion
system that limits the maximum speed of the device to 15 miles per hour or
less.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-117.7)
   FARM TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing wagons, plows, mowing machines, and other implements of
husbandry, and every implement of husbandry which is self-propelled.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-120)
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle, whether operated singly or in
combination, without load, plus the weight of load thereon.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-125)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel or located on public school property.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-126)
   IMPLEMENT OF HUSBANDRY. Every vehicle designed and adapted exclusively for
agricultural, horticultural, or livestock raising operations, including farm
wagons, wagon trailers, or like vehicles used in connection therewith, or for
lifting or carrying an implement of husbandry, provided that no farm wagon,
wagon trailer, or like vehicle having a gross weight of more than 36,000
pounds, shall be included hereunder.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-130)
   IMPROVED HIGHWAY. Any roadway of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam and
crushed stone, or gravel.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-131)
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of 2 highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different roadways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes 2 roadways 40 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      (3)   The junction of an alley with a street or highway does not
constitute an intersection.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-132)
   LANE-CONTROL SIGNAL. An official traffic-control device consisting of an
electrically controlled and illuminated signal of a square or rectangular
design, and employing distinctive colors or symbols used to control the
direction of vehicular flow on the particular lane to which the indication
applies.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-135)
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into 2 or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-136)
   LEASE. A written document vesting exclusive possession, use, control, and
responsibility of the lessee during the periods the vehicle is operated by or
for the lessee for a specific period of time.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-137)
   LICENSE TO DRIVE. Any driver’s license or any other license or permit to
operate a motor vehicle issued under the laws of this state, including:
      (1)   Any temporary license or instruction permit;
      (2)   The privilege of any person to drive a motor vehicle, whether or
not the person holds a valid license or permit; and
      (3)   Any nonresident’s driving privilege as defined herein.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-138)
   LIMOUSINE. Any privately owned first division vehicle intended to be used
for the transportation of persons for-hire when the payment is not based on a
meter charge but is prearranged for a designated destination.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-139.1)
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. Every county, village, and other local board or body
having authority to enact laws relating to traffic under the constitution and
laws of this state and each road district Highway Commissioner having that
authority.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-140)
   MAIL. To deposit in the United States mail properly addressed and with
postage prepaid.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-141)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, except for vehicles
moved solely by human power, and motorized wheelchairs. For this section, motor
vehicles are divided into 2 divisions:
      (1)   First division: motor vehicles designed for carrying not more than
10 persons.
      (2)   Second division: motor vehicles designed for carrying more than 10
persons, those designed or used for living quarters, and those motor vehicles
which are designed for pulling or carrying freight or cargo, and those motor
vehicles of the first division remodeled for use and used as motor vehicles of
the second division.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-146)
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider, and designed to travel on not more than 3 wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-147)
   MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE. Every motorcycle and every motor scooter with less than
150 cubic centimeter piston displacement, including motorized pedalcycles.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-145.001)
   MOTORIZED PEDALCYCLE. A motor-driven cycle whose speed attainable in 1 mile
is 30 m.p.h. or less, which is equipped with a motor that produces 2 brake
horsepower or less. If an internal combustion engine is used, the displacement
shall not exceed 50 cubic centimeter displacement and the power drive system
shall not require the operator to shift gears.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-148.2)
   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR. Any self-propelled vehicle, including a 3-wheeled
vehicle, designed for and used by a person with disabilities, that is incapable
of a speed in excess of 8 m.p.h. on level ground.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-148.3)
   NONCOMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is not a commercial vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-151)
   NOT-FOR-HIRE. Operation of a commercial vehicle in furtherance of any
commercial or industrial enterprise, but not for-hire.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-153)
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings, and devices
which conform with the state manual, and not inconsistent with this title,
placed or erected by authority of a public body or official having
jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-154)
   OWNER. A person who holds legal title of a motor vehicle, or in the event a
motor vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement, and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee; or in the event a mortgagor of the motor vehicle
is entitled to possession, then the conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the owner for the purpose of this title.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-155)
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than when temporarily and actually engaged in loading or unloading
merchandise or passengers.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-156)
   PASSENGER CAR. A motor vehicle of the first division, including a
multipurpose passenger vehicle, that is designed for carrying not more than 10
persons.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-157)
   PEACE OFFICER.  Any person who by virtue of his or her public employment is
vested by law with a duty to maintain public order or to make arrests for
offenses, whether that duty extends to all offenses or is limited to specific
offenses.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-157.5)
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot, including a person with a physical, hearing,
or visual disability.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-158)
   PERSON WITH DISABILITIES. A natural person who, as determined by a licensed
physician, by a physician assistant who has been delegated the authority to
make this determination by his or her supervising physician, or by a advanced
practice nurse who has a written collaborative agreement with a collaborating
physician that authorizes the advanced practice nurse to make this
determination:
      (1)   Cannot walk without the use of, or assistance from, a brace, cane,
crutch, another person, prosthetic device, wheelchair, or other assistive
device;
      (2)   Is restricted by lung disease to such an extent that his or her
forced (respiratory) expiratory volume for 1 second, when measured by
spirometry, is less than 1 liter, or the arterial oxygen tension is less than
60 mm/hg on room air at rest;
      (3)   Uses portable oxygen;
      (4)   Has a cardiac condition to the extent that the person’s functional
limitations are classified in severity as Class III or Class IV, according to
standards set by the American Heart Association;
      (5)   Is severely limited in the person’s ability to walk due to an
arthritic, neurological, or orthopedic condition; or
      (6)   Cannot walk 200 feet without stopping to rest because of 1 of the
above 5 conditions.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-159.1)
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or
to make arrests and issue citations for violations of traffic regulations.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-162)
   PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS. The place where any person transacts his or her
principal business, or where he or she makes up and approves his or her
payroll, maintains a central file of records, and maintains his or her
principal executive offices. In the event that not all of these functions are
performed in 1 place, then that place where a majority of these functions are
performed, or the place where the person does in fact principally transact and
control his or her business affairs shall be considered as the principal place
of business.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-162.5)
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership, and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-163)
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-166)
   RAILROAD-HIGHWAY GRADE CROSSING. The intersection of stationary rails owned
or used in the operation of a railroad corporation across a highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-166.1)
   RAILROAD SIGNS OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal, or device, other than an
official traffic-control signal or device, erected in accordance with the laws
governing the same, and intended to give notice of the presence of railroad
tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-167)
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-168)
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Every camping trailer, motor home, mini motor home,
travel trailer, truck camper, or van camper used primarily for recreational
purposes, and not used commercially nor owned by a commercial business.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-169)
   REGISTRATION. The registration certificate or certificates and registration
plates issued under the laws of this state pertaining to the registration of
vehicles.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171)
   REGISTRATION STICKER. A device to be attached to a registration plate that
will renew the registration and registration plate or plates for a
predetermined period, not to exceed 1 registration year.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171)
   REMOVE. Includes removing, defacing, covering, or destroying.
   RESCUE SQUAD. A voluntary association of individuals or a fire department
dedicated to saving lives through the rescue of persons entrapped in wrecked
vehicles or other hazardous circumstances and associated with some unit of
government.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171.6)
   RESCUE VEHICLE. Any publicly or privately owned vehicle which is
specifically designed, configured, and equipped for the performance of access
and extrication of persons from hazardous or life-endangering situations, as
well as for the emergency transportation of persons who are sick, injured,
wounded, or otherwise incapacitated or helpless.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171.8)
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway, not
comprising a business district, when the property on the highway for a distance
of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or residences and
buildings in use for business. For purposes of establishing maximum speed
limits, a RESIDENCE DISTRICT shall be at least a quarter of a mile long with
residences or residences and buildings in use for businesses spaced no more
than 300 feet apart.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-172)
   RETAIL SALE. The act or attempted act of selling vehicles or otherwise
disposing of a vehicle to a person for use as a consumer.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-174)
   REVOCATION OF DRIVER’S LICENSE. The termination by formal action of the
secretary, of a person’s license or privilege to operate a motor vehicle on the
public highways, which termination shall not be subject to renewal or
restoration, except that an application for a new license may be presented and
acted upon by the secretary after the expiration of at least 1 year after the
date of revocation.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-176)
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The right of 1 vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed, and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision, unless one grants precedence to the other.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-177)
   ROAD TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other
vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon, either
independently or any part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-178)
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes 2 or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as used herein shall
refer to any roadway separately, but not to all roadways collectively.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-179)
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-181)
   SCHOOL BUS.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, except as provided in division (2) below,
owned or operated by or for any of the following entities for the
transportation of persons regularly enrolled as students in grade 12 or below
in connection with any activity of the entity:
         (a)   A public or private primary or secondary school;
         (b)   A primary or secondary school operated by a religious
institution; or
         (c)   Any public, private, or religious nursery school.
      (2)   This definition does not include the following:
         (a)   A bus operated by a public utility, village corporation, or
common carrier authorized to conduct local or interurban transportation of
passengers when the bus is not traveling a specific school bus route but is:
            1.   On a regularly scheduled route for the transportation of other
fare-paying passengers;
            2.   Furnishing charter service for the transportation of groups on
field trips or other special trips or in connection with special events; or
            3.   Being used for shuttle service between attendance centers or
other educational facilities.
         (b)   A motor vehicle of the First Division; or
         (c)   A motor vehicle designed for the transportation of not less than
7 nor more than 16 persons that is operated by or for a public or private
primary or secondary school, including any primary or secondary school operated
by a religious institution, for the purpose of transporting not more than 15
students to and from interscholastic athletic or other interscholastic or
school-sponsored activities.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-182)
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power, other than a pole trailer,
designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor
vehicle, and so constructed that its weight and that of its load rests upon or
is carried by another vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-187)
   SHOULDER. That portion of the highway adjacent to the roadway for
accommodating stopped vehicles or for emergency use.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-187.1)
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-188)
   SPEED-CHANGE LANE. An auxiliary lane, including tapered areas, primarily for
the acceleration or deceleration of vehicles entering or leaving the through
traffic lanes.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-193)
   STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than when temporarily and actually engaged in receiving or
discharging passengers.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-194)
   STATE. A state, territory, or possession of the United States, the District
of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a province of the Dominion of
Canada.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-195)
   STATE HIGHWAYS. Defined in the Illinois Highway Code as the same may from
time to time be amended.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-196)
   STATE POLICE. The Illinois State Police.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-197)
   STOP. The complete cessation from movement.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-199)
   STOP or STOPPING. Any halting, even momentarily, of a vehicle, whether
occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or
in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control sign
or signal.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-200)
   STREET. The entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-201)
   SUBURBAN DISTRICT. That portion of any city, village, or incorporated town,
other than the business and residence districts.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-203)
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every highway or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic
is given preferential right-of-way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield the right-of-way
to vehicles on the through highway in obedience to either a stop sign or a
yield sign, when those signs are erected as provided in this title.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-205)
   TOW TRUCK. Every truck designed or altered and equipped for and used to
push, tow, or draw vehicles by means of a crane, hoist, towbar, towline, or
auxiliary axle, or to render assistance to disabled vehicles, except for any
truck tractor temporarily converted to a tow truck by means of a portable
wrecker unit attached to the fifth wheel of the truck tractor and used only by
the owner to tow a disabled vehicle also owned by him or her and never used for
hire.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-205.1)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for
purposes of travel.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-207)
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any official traffic-control device other than a
railroad sign or signal, whether manually, electrically, or mechanically
operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and permitted to
proceed.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-208)
   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS. Any provision of this code or other regulatory
ordinance, the purpose of which is to directly control or improve traffic and
safety of both vehicles and pedestrians.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power in operation, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property, and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle, and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-209)
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A trailer, not used commercially, designed to provide living
quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, and of a size or weight not
requiring an over-dimension permit when towed on a highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-210.01)
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used, or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-211)
   TRUCK CAMPER. A truck, not used commercially, when equipped with a portable
unit designed to be loaded onto the bed which is constructed to provide
temporary living quarters for recreational, travel, or camping use.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-211.01)
   TRUCK TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-212)
   URBAN AREA. An urban area is any incorporated or unincorporated area
developed primarily for residential or business purposes.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-214.8)
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street which
is built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or dwelling houses,
and situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of 1/4 mile or
more.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-214)
   VEHICLE.
      (1)   Every device, in, upon, or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a highway or requiring a certificate of title
under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-101(d), except devices moved by human power,
devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, and snowmobiles as
defined in the Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, unless otherwise prescribed, a
device shall be considered to be a vehicle until such time it either comes
within the definition of a “junk vehicle,” as defined under this section, or a
junking certificate is issued for it.
      (3)   For this section vehicles are divided into 2 divisions:
         (a)   First division: those motor vehicles which are designed for the
carrying of not more than 10 persons;
         (b)   Second division: those vehicles which are designed for carrying
more than 10 persons; those designed or used for living quarters; those which
are designed for pulling or carrying property, freight, or cargo; those
vehicles of the first division remodeled for use and used as vehicles of the
second division; and those vehicles of the first division used and registered
as school buses.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-217)
OBEDIENCE TO AND EFFECT OF TRAFFIC LAWS
§ 70.10 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any police officer, fireman, or school crossing guard invested by
law with authority to direct, control, or regulate traffic.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-203) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11 PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC CODE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code applicable to the drivers of
vehicles upon the highways shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or
operated by the United States, the state, or any county, city, town, district,
or any other political subdivision of the state, except as provided in this
section, and subject to specific exceptions as set forth in this title with
reference to authorized emergency vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call, or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of
the law, or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   (C)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this traffic code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be required and necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property;
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing the direction of movement or
turning in specified directions.
   (D)   The exceptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle,
other than a police vehicle, shall apply only when the vehicle is making use of
either an audible signal when in motion, or visual signals meeting the
requirements of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-215.
   (E)   The foregoing provisions do not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty of driving with due regard for the safety of
all persons, nor do these provisions protect the driver from the consequences
of his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (F)   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this traffic
code shall not apply to persons, motor vehicles, and equipment while actually
engaged in work upon the highway, but shall apply to the persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from the work.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-205) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.12 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING ANIMALS OR DRIVING ANIMAL-DRAWN
VEHICLES.
   Every person riding an animal or driving an animal-drawn vehicle upon a
roadway shall be granted all of the rights, and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this chapter, except those
provisions of this chapter which by their very nature can have no application.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-206) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.13 FLEEING OR ATTEMPTING TO ELUDE POLICE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any driver or operator of a motor vehicle who,
having been given a visual or audible signal by a police officer directing the
driver or operator to bring his or her vehicle to a stop, willfully fails or
refuses to obey that direction, increases his or her speed, extinguishes his or
her lights, or otherwise flees or attempts to elude the officer. The signal
given by the police officer may be by hand, voice, siren, or a red or blue
light. However, the officer giving the signal shall be in police uniform and,
if driving a vehicle, the vehicle shall be marked showing it to be an official
police vehicle.
Penalty, see §
70.99
TRAFFIC SIGNS, SIGNALS, AND MARKINGS
§ 70.30 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control accordance with this chapter, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this traffic code.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to leave the roadway and travel across
private property to avoid an official traffic-control device.
   (C)   No provision of this traffic code, for which official traffic-control
devices are required, shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the
time and place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
Whenever a particular section does not state that official traffic-control
devices are required, the section shall be effective even though no devices are
erected or in place.
   (D)   Whenever any official traffic-control device is placed or held in
position approximately conforming to the requirements of this traffic code, the
device shall be presumed to have been so placed or held by the official act or
direction of lawful authority, and comply with the requirements of this traffic
code, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a traffic-control signal on which
no signal light facing the vehicle is illuminated shall stop before entering
the intersection, in accordance with rules applicable in making a stop at a
stop sign.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-305) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.31 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
different colored lights or color lighted arrows, successively 1 at a time or
in combination, only the colors green, red, and yellow shall be used, except
for special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend, and the lights shall
indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as follows:
   (A)   Green indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at that place prohibits
either such turn. Vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left,
shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully
within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time the signal is
exhibited.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal, shown alone or in
combination with another indication, may cautiously enter the intersection only
to make the movement indicated by the arrow, or such other movement as is
permitted by other indications shown at the same time. The vehicular traffic
shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal, as
provided in §
70.32, pedestrians facing any green signal, except when the sole green signal
is a turn arrow, may proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked
crosswalk.
   (B)   Steady yellow indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow
signal is thereby warned that the related green movement is being terminated or
that a red indication will be exhibited immediately thereafter.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal,
unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as provided in §
70.32, are thereby advised that there is insufficient time to cross the roadway
before a red indication is shown, and no pedestrian shall then start to cross
the roadway.
   (C)   Steady red indication.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal alone shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, but if there is no such stop line, before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection; or if there is no such
crosswalk, then before entering the intersection; and shall remain standing
until an indication to proceed is shown.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, vehicular
traffic facing a steady red arrow signal shall not enter the intersection to
make the movement indicated by the arrow and, unless entering the intersection
to make a movement permitted by another signal, shall stop at a clearly marked
stop line, but if there is no such stop line, before entering the crosswalk on
the near side of the intersection, or if there is no such crosswalk, then
before entering the intersection; and shall remain standing until an indication
permitting the movement indicated by the red arrow is shown.
      (3)   Except when a sign is in place prohibiting a turn and the village
authorities by ordinance or state authorities by rule or regulation prohibit
any such turn, vehicular traffic facing any steady red signal may cautiously
enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a 1-way street into
a 1-way street, after stopping as required by division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this
section. After stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle
in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to
constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or
within the intersection or junction or roadways. The driver shall yield the
right-of-way to pedestrians within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk.
      (4)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as
provided in §
70.32, pedestrians facing a steady circular red or red arrow signal alone shall
not enter the roadway.
   (D)   Non-intersection. In the event an official traffic-control signal is
erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of
this section shall be applicable except as to provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be at a traffic sign or a
marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made; or, in the
absence of a sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-306) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.32 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “Walk” or
“Don’t Walk” or the illuminated symbols of a walking person or an upraised palm
are in place, these signals shall indicate as follows:
   (A)   “Walk” or walking person symbol. Pedestrians facing this signal may
proceed across the roadway in the direction of the signal, and shall be given
the right-of-way by the drivers of all vehicles.
   (B)   “Don’t Walk” or upraised palm signal. No pedestrian shall start to
cross the roadway in the direction of this signal, but any pedestrian who has
partly completed his or her crossing on the “Walk” signal or upraised palm
symbol shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island while the “Don’t Walk”
signal or upraised palm symbol is illuminated, steady, or flashing.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-307) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.33 LANE-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever lane-control signals are used in conjunction with official signs,
they shall have the following meanings:
   (A)   Downward-pointing green arrow. A driver facing this indication is
permitted to drive in the lane over which the arrow signal is located.
Otherwise, he or she shall obey all other traffic controls present and follow
normal safe driving practices.
   (B)   Red X symbol. A driver facing this indication shall not drive in the
lane over which the signal is located, and this indication shall modify
accordingly the meaning of all other traffic controls present. Otherwise he or
she shall obey all other traffic controls, and follow normal safe driving
practices.
   (C)   Yellow X (steady). A driver facing this indication should prepare to
vacate the lane over which the signal is located, in a safe manner to avoid, if
possible, occupying that lane when a steady red X is displayed.
   (D)   Flashing yellow arrow. A driver facing this indication may use the
lane only for the purpose of approaching and making a left turn.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-308) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.34 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   (A)   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in
conjunction with a traffic- control device, it shall require obedience by
vehicular traffic as follows:
      (1)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop at a clearly marked
stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or if none, then at a point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be subject to
the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past the signal only with caution.
   (B)   This section does not apply at railroad grade crossings.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-309) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.35 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS, MARKINGS, OR ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be,
or is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic-control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
or which hides from view or interferes with the movement of traffic or the
effectiveness of an official traffic-control device or any railroad sign or
signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit, upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   (C)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is
hereby empowered to remove the same, or cause it to be removed without notice.
   (D)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any traffic-control device to
be used on any street or highway in this village which does not conform to the
requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information,
and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (F)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection of Illinois
Adopt-A-Highway signs by the village as provided in ILCS Ch. 605, Act 120, §§ 1
et seq.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-310) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.36 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNS OR
SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic-control device, or
any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or
any other part thereof.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-311)
§ 70.37 UNLAWFUL USE OR DAMAGE TO HIGHWAYS, APPURTENANCES, AND STRUCTURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully injure or damage any public
highway or street, or any bridge or culvert, or to willfully damage, injure, or
remove any sign, signpost, or structure upon or used or constructed in
connection with any public highway or street for the protection thereof, or for
the protection or regulation of traffic thereon, by any willfully unusual,
improper, or unreasonable use thereof, or by willfully careless driving or use
of any vehicle thereon, or by willful mutilation, defacing, destruction, or
removal thereof.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-312) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.38 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF HIGHWAY SIGN OR MARKER.
   The Village Street Department, with reference to traffic-control signs,
signals, or markers owned by the village, is authorized to indicate the
ownership of the signs, signals, or markers in letters not less than 3/8 inch,
or more than 3/4 inch in height, by use of a metal stamp, etching, or other
permanent means. Except for employees of the Village Street Department, police
officers, contractors and their employees engaged in a highway construction
contract or work on the highway approved by the village, it is unlawful for any
person to possess a sign, signal, or marker so identified.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-313) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.39 ZONES OF QUIET.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a zone of quiet, no person
operating a motor vehicle within the zone shall sound the horn or other warning
device except in an emergency.
§ 70.40 NO-TURNING SIGNS AND TURNING MARKERS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U-
turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of the
sign. When authorized marks, buttons, or other indications are placed within an
intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles, no driver of a
vehicle shall disobey the directions of the indications.
§ 70.41 STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Preferential right-of-way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
signs or yield signs as authorized in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-302.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle and every motorman of a streetcar approaching
a stop intersection indicated by a stop sign shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, in the event there is no
crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, then at the
point nearest the intersection roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign if required for
safety to stop shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the
driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1204) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this title for which no penalty is
provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (A)   Traffic violations. Whoever violates any provision of this traffic
code for which another penalty is not already otherwise provided by ordinance
or by appropriate statutory penalty as generally set forth in ILCS Ch. 625, Act
5, §§ 16-101 et seq. shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not more
than $750.
   (B)   Parking violations. Any person accused of a violation of any provision
of this traffic code prohibiting parking a vehicle in a designated area, or
restricting the length of time a vehicle may be there parked, or parking in a
metered area without putting a coin in the meter to cover the required time,
may settle and compromise the claim against him or her for the illegal parking
by paying to the village $3 for each such offense if paid within 5 days, or $10
if paid within 21 days. This payment may be made at the police station, a
receipt shall be issued for all money so received, and the money shall be
promptly turned over to the Village Treasurer to be credited to the General
Fund. The members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to refrain
from instituting a prosecution for the alleged offense involved. This section
shall not apply to persons parking a vehicle so as to obstruct the entrance or
exit of any place where Police or Fire Department apparatus or other emergency
equipment is kept or housed, or so as to block an emergency entrance in a
hospital; nor shall this section apply to any person charged with parking a
vehicle so as to entirely obstruct traffic in any street or alley, or parking
in such a way as to reduce traffic on an arterial street to 1-way traffic only;
nor to any person who refuses to move a vehicle illegally parked at the request
of any member of the Police Department.
   (C)   Obedience to police officers. Any person convicted of violating §
70.10 is guilty of a petty offense and shall be subject to a mandatory fine of
$150.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-203)
   (D)   Interference with devices, signs, and signals. Every person who is
convicted of a violation of §
70.36 shall be punished by a fine of at least $250 in addition to any other
penalties which may be imposed.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-311)
   (E)   Damage to highways and structures.  Every person who is convicted of a
violation of §
70.37 shall be punished by a fine of at least $250 in addition to any other
penalty which may be imposed.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-312)
   (F)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §§
71.145 et seq. shall be fined not less than $35 nor more than $750 for each
offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1475, passed 5-13-1986)
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating the provisions of
Chapter 77, Schedule I, shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $750 for
each offense.
(Ord. 1993-19, passed 12-14-1993)
CHAPTER 71: RULES OF OPERATION
Section
Speed Restrictions
   
71.001   Speed limits
   
71.002   Special speed limits while passing schools and while traveling through
highway construction or maintenance zones
   
71.003   Maximum attainable operating speed
   
71.004   Minimum speed regulation
Turning and Starting; Signals
   
71.020   Required position and method of turning at intersections
   
71.021   Limitations on U-turns
   
71.022   Starting parked vehicle
   
71.023   When signal required
   
71.024   Signal by hand and arm or signal device
   
71.025   Method of giving hand and arm signals
Overtaking and Passing
   
71.040   Driving on right side of roadway; exceptions
   
71.041   Passing vehicles proceeding in opposite directions
   
71.042   Overtaking vehicles on the left
   
71.043   When overtaking on the right is permitted
   
71.044   Limitations on overtaking on the left
   
71.045   Meeting or overtaking school bus
   
71.046   One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands
   
71.047   No-passing zones
   
71.048   Driving on roadways laned for traffic
Right-of-Way
   
71.060   Vehicles approaching or entering intersection
   
71.061   Vehicle turning left
   
71.062   Vehicles entering stop crosswalk
   
71.063   Vehicle entering stop or yield intersection
   
71.064   Merging traffic
   
71.065   Vehicle entering highway from private road or driveway
   
71.066   Operation of vehicles on approach of authorized emergency vehicles
   
71.067   Funeral processions
Special Stops Required
   
71.080   Obedience to signal indicating approach of train
   
71.081   Certain vehicles must stop at all railroad grade crossings
   
71.082   Emerging from alley, building, private road, or driveway
   
71.083   Stop when traffic obstructed
Prohibitions
   
71.095   Backing
   
71.096   Following vehicle too closely
   
71.097   Obstruction of driver’s view or driving mechanism
   
71.098   Opening vehicle doors
   
71.099   Coasting
   
71.100   Following fire apparatus; driving over fire hose
   
71.101   Driving upon sidewalk
   
71.102   Use of roller skates, coasters, or similar devices
   
71.103   Putting glass or other hazardous materials on highway prohibited
   
71.104   Obstructing person in highways
   
71.105   Farm tractor operation
   
71.106   Driving on controlled-access highway
Parades
   
71.120   Definitions
   
71.121   Permit required
   
71.122   Application for permit
   
71.123   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.124   Notice of rejection of permit application
   
71.125   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.126   Alternative permit
   
71.127   Notice to village and other officials when permit issued
   
71.128   Contents of permit
   
71.129   Duties of permittee
   
71.130   Public conduct during parades
   
71.131   Revocation of permit
Off-Road Vehicles
   
71.145   Definition
   
71.146   Operation
   
71.147   Operation on streets prohibited
   
71.148   Effective date
 
   
71.999   Penalty
SPEED RESTRICTIONS
§ 71.001 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No vehicle may be driven upon any highway of this village at a speed
which is greater than is reasonable and proper with regard to traffic
conditions and the use of the highway, or which endangers the safety of any
person or property. The fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the
applicable maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to
decrease speed when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching
and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when traveling upon any
narrow or winding roadway, or when a special hazard exists with respect to
pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions.
Speed must be decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person
or vehicle on or entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and
the duty of all persons to use due care.
   (B)   No person may drive a vehicle upon any street at a speed which is
greater than the applicable statutory maximum speed limit established by
divisions (C) and (D) below, by §
71.002, or by a regulation or ordinance made under this chapter.
   (C)   Unless some other speed restriction is established under this chapter,
the maximum speed limit in an urban district (as defined in §
70.01) for all vehicles is:
      (1)   Thirty miles per hour; and
      (2)   Fifteen miles per hour in an alley.
   (D)   Unless some other speed restriction is established under this chapter,
the maximum speed limit in a non-urban district shall be as determined under
ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-601.
   (E)   A first violation of this section is a petty offense with a minimum
fine of $150. A second or subsequent violation of this section is a petty
offense with a minimum fine of $300.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-601) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate speed, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-40-1 and Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 11-604
§ 71.002 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITS WHILE PASSING SCHOOLS AND WHILE TRAVELING THROUGH
HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION OR MAINTENANCE ZONES.
   (A)   School zones.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, a SCHOOL DAY shall begin at 7:00
a.m. and shall conclude at 4:00 p.m.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, SCHOOL means the following
entities:
         (a)   A public or private primary or secondary school;
         (b)   A primary or secondary school operated by a religious
institution; or
         (c)   A public, private or religious nursery school.
      (3)   On a school day when school children are present and so close
thereto that a potential hazard exists because of the close proximity of the
motorized traffic, no person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess
of 20 miles per hour while passing a school zone, or while traveling on a
roadway on public school property or upon any public thoroughfare where
children pass going to and from school.
      (4)   This section shall not be applicable unless appropriate signs are
posted upon streets and maintained by the village wherein the school zone is
located. With regard to the special speed limit while passing schools, the
signs shall give proper due warning that a school zone is being approached, and
shall indicate the school zone and the maximum speed limit in effect during
school days when school children are present.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-605(a))
      (5)   A first violation of division (A) of this section is a petty
offense with a minimum fine of $150. A second or subsequent violation of this
section is a petty offense with a minimum fine of $300.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-605(e))
      (6)   (a)   When a fine for a violation of division (A) of this section
is $150 or greater, the person who violates division (A)(1) and (2) shall be
charged an additional $50 to be paid to the unit school district where the
violation occurred for school safety purposes. If the violation occurred in a
dual school district, $25 of the surcharge shall be paid to the elementary
school district for school safety purposes and $25 of the surcharge shall be
paid to the high school district for school safety purposes. Notwithstanding
any other provision of law, the entire $50 surcharge shall be paid to the
appropriate school district or districts.
         (b)   For purposes of this division (6), SCHOOL SAFETY PURPOSES
include the costs associated with school zone safety education and the
purchase, installation, and maintenance of caution lights which are mounted on
school speed zone signs.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-605(f))
      (7)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the use of electronic speed-
detecting devices within 500 feet of signs within a special school speed zone
indicating the zone, as defined in this section, nor shall evidence obtained
thereby be inadmissible in any prosecution for speeding, provided the use of
the device shall apply only to the enforcement of the speed limit in the
special school speed zone.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-605(c)
   (B)   Special limit while traveling through highway construction or
maintenance speed zones.
      (1)   A person may not operate a motor vehicle in a construction or
maintenance speed zone at a speed in excess of the posted speed limit.
      (2)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits the use of electronic speed-
detecting devices within 500 feet of signs within a construction or maintenance
speed zone indicating the zone, as defined in this section, nor shall evidence
obtained by use of those devices be inadmissible in any prosecution for
speeding, provided the use of the device shall apply only to the enforcement of
the speed limit in the construction or maintenance speed zone.
      (3)   (a)   As used in this section, a CONSTRUCTION OR MAINTENANCE SPEED
ZONE is an area in which the Department, toll highway authority, or a local
agency has determined that the preexisting established speed limit through a
highway construction or maintenance project is greater than is reasonable or
safe with respect to the conditions expected to exist in the construction or
maintenance speed zone and has posted a lower speed limit with a highway
construction or maintenance speed zone special speed limit sign.
         (b)   Highway construction or maintenance speed zone special speed
limit signs shall be of a design approved by the Department. The signs must
give proper due warning that a construction or maintenance speed zone is being
approached and must indicate the maximum speed limit in effect. The signs must
also state the amount of the minimum fine for a violation.
      (4)   A first violation of division (B) of this section is a petty
offense with a minimum fine of $250. A second or subsequent violation of
division (B) of this section is a petty offense with a minimum fine of $750.
      (5)   If a fine or violation of division (B) of this section is $250 or
greater, the person who violated division (B) of this section shall be charged
an additional $125, which shall be deposited into the Transportation Safety
Highway Hire-back Fund. In the case of a second or subsequent violation of this
section, if the fine is $750 or greater, the person who violated division (B)
of this section shall be charged an additional $250, which shall be deposited
into the Transportation Safety Highway Hire-back Fund.
      (6)   The Transportation Safety Highway Hire-back Fund, which was created
by Public Act 92-619, shall continue to be a special fund in the State
Treasury. Subject to appropriation by the General Assembly and approval by the
Secretary, the Secretary of Transportation shall use all moneys in the
Transportation Safety Highway Hire-back Fund to hire off-duty Department of
State Police Officers to monitor construction or maintenance zones.
      (7)   For a second or subsequent violation of division (B) of this
section within 2 years of the date of the previous violation, the Secretary of
State shall suspend the driver’s license of the violator for a period of 90
days.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-605.1) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.003 MAXIMUM ATTAINABLE OPERATING SPEED.
   No person shall drive or operate any motor vehicle on any street or highway
in this village where the minimum allowable speed on that street or highway, as
posted, is greater than the maximum attainable operating speed of the vehicle.
Maximum attainable operating speed shall be determined by the manufacturer of
the vehicle and clearly published in the manual of specifications and
operation, or it shall be determined by applicable rule and regulation
promulgated by the Secretary of State.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-611) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.004 MINIMUM SPEED REGULATION.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and regular movement of traffic except when reduced speed is
necessary for safe operation of his or her vehicle or in compliance with law.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-606(a)) Penalty, see §
71.999
TURNING AND STARTING; SIGNALS
§ 71.020 REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do
so as follows:
      (1)   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made
as close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any intersection
shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of the vehicle, and
after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the
intersection in a lane lawfully available to traffic moving in that direction
upon the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable the left turn shall be
made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
      (3)   The State Department of Transportation and local authorities in
their respective jurisdictions may cause official traffic-control devices to be
placed within or adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct that
a different course from that specified in this section be traveled by vehicles
turning at an intersection, and when these devices are so placed no driver of a
vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and
required by the devices.
   (B)   Where a special lane for making left turns by drivers proceeding in
opposite directions has been indicated by official traffic-control devices:
      (1)   A left turn shall not be made from any other lane; and
      (2)   A vehicle shall not be driven in the lane except when preparing for
or making a left turn from or into the roadway or when preparing for or making
a U-turn when otherwise permitted by law.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-801) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.021 LIMITATIONS ON U-TURNS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed
in the opposite direction unless the movement can be made in safety and without
interfering with other traffic.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
upon any curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, where the
vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from
either direction within 500 feet.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-802) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.022 STARTING PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked,
unless and until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-803) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.023 WHEN SIGNAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person may turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle is
in proper position upon the roadway as required in §
71.020, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway, or otherwise
turn a vehicle from a direct course, or move right or left upon a roadway
unless and until the movement can be made with reasonable safety. No person may
so turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the manner
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required must be
given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
vehicle before turning within a business or residence district, and the signal
must be given continuously during not less than the last 200 feet traveled by
the vehicle before turning outside a business or residence district.
   (C)   No person may stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle without
first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided in this chapter to
the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to
give a signal.
   (D)   The electric turn signal device required in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-
208 must be used to indicate an intention to turn, change lanes, or start from
a parallel parked position, but must not be flashed on one side only on a
parked or disabled vehicle, or flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal to
operators of other vehicles approaching from the rear. However, signal devices
may be flashed simultaneously on both sides of a motor vehicle to indicate the
presence of a vehicular traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching,
overtaking, and passing.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-804) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.024 SIGNAL BY HAND AND ARM OR SIGNAL DEVICE.
   Any stop or turn signal, when required herein, shall be given either by
means of the hand and arm or by an electric turn signal device conforming to
the requirements provided in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-208.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-805) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.025 METHOD OF GIVING HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   All signals given by hand and arm shall be given from the left side of the
vehicle in the following manner, and the signals shall indicate as follows:
   (A)   Left turn. Hand and arm extended horizontally.
   (B)   Right turn. Hand and arm extended upward.
   (C)   Stop or decrease of speed. Hand and arm extended downward.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-806) Penalty, see §
71.999
OVERTAKING AND PASSING
§ 71.040 DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing those movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the roadway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the roadway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into 3 marked lanes for traffic under the
rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   Upon a roadway restricted to 1-way traffic; or
      (5)   Whenever there is a single-track paved road on 1 side of the public
highway and 2 vehicles meet thereon, the driver on whose right is the wider
shoulder shall give the right-of-way on the pavement to the other vehicle.
   (B)   Upon a 2-lane roadway, providing for 2-way movement of traffic, a
vehicle shall be driven in the right-hand lane available for traffic, or as
close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction, or
when preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
   (C)   Upon any roadway having 4 or more lanes for moving traffic, and
providing for 2-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the left
of the center line of the roadway, except when authorized by official traffic-
control devices designating certain lanes to the left side of the center of the
roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the lanes, or except
as permitted under division (A)(2). However, this division shall not be
construed as prohibiting the crossing of the centerline in making a left turn
into or from an alley, private road, or driveway.
   (D)   (1)   Upon an Interstate highway or fully access-controlled freeway, a
vehicle may not be driven in the left lane, except when overtaking and passing
another vehicle.
      (2)   Division (D)(1) does not apply:
         (a)   When no other vehicle is directly behind the vehicle in the left
lane;
         (b)   When traffic conditions and congestion make it impractical to
drive in the right lane;
         (c)   When snow and other inclement weather conditions make it
necessary to drive in the left lane;
         (d)   When obstructions or hazards exist in the right lane;
         (e)   When a vehicle change lanes to comply with ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5,
§§ 11-907 and 11-908;
         (f)   When, because of highway design, a vehicle must be driven in the
left lane when preparing to exit;
         (g)   On toll highways when necessary to use I-Pass, and on toll and
other highways when driving in the left lane is required to comply with an
official traffic-control device; or
         (h)   To law enforcement vehicles, ambulances, and other emergency
vehicles engaged in official duties an vehicles engaged in highway maintenance
and construction operation.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-701) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.041 PASSING VEHICLES PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right and upon roadways having width for not more than 1 line of traffic
in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least 1/2 of the main
traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-702) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.042 OVERTAKING VEHICLES ON THE LEFT.
   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles proceeding
in the same direction, subject to those limitations, exceptions, and special
rules otherwise stated in this chapter:
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance, and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle. In no event shall the movement be made by driving off the
pavement or the main traveled portion of the roadway;
   (B)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal, and shall not increase the speed of his
or her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle; and
   (C)   The driver of a 2-wheeled vehicle may not, in passing upon the left of
any vehicle proceeding in the same direction, pass upon the right of any
vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless there is an unobstructed lane
of traffic available to permit the passing maneuver safely.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-703) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.043 WHEN OVERTAKING ON THE RIGHT IS PERMITTED.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle with 3 or more wheels may overtake and pass
upon the right of another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for 2
or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled by
the overtaking vehicle; or
      (3)   Upon a 1-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to 1 direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for 2 or more lines of moving vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of a 2-wheeled vehicle may not pass upon the right of any
other vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless the unobstructed pavement
to the right of the vehicle being passed is of a width of not less than 8 feet.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting the movement in safety. This movement
shall not be made by driving off the roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-704) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.044 LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON THE LEFT.
   (A)   Passing on the left.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless authorized by the provisions of this chapter, and unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction, or any vehicle overtaken.
      (2)   In every event, the overtaking vehicle must return to an authorized
lane of travel as soon as practicable, and in the event the passing movement
involves the use of a lane authorized for vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet of any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-705)
   (B)   Conditions where passing on the left is prohibited.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be driven on the left side of the roadway under
the following conditions:
         (a)   When approaching or upon the crest of a grade or a curve in the
highway where the driver’s view is obstructed within a distance as to create a
hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite direction;
         (b)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any
intersection or railroad grade crossing; or
         (c)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of
any bridge, viaduct, or tunnel.
      (2)   The limitations in division (B)(1) above do not apply upon a 1-way
roadway, nor upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
2 or more lanes of moving traffic in each direction, nor to the driver of a
vehicle turning left into or from an alley, private road, or driveway when the
movements can be made with safety.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-706) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.045 MEETING OR OVERTAKING SCHOOL BUS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop the vehicle before meeting or
overtaking, from either direction, any school bus stopped at any location for
the purpose of receiving or discharging pupils. The stop is required before
reaching the school bus when there is in operation on the school bus the visual
signals as specified in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-803 and 12-805. The driver
of the vehicle shall not proceed until the school bus resumes motion or the
driver of the vehicle is signaled by the school bus driver to proceed or the
visual signals are no longer actuated.
   (B)   The stop signal arm required by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-803 shall be
extended after the school bus has come to a complete stop for the purpose of
loading or discharging pupils and shall be closed before the school bus is
placed in motion again. The stop signal arm shall not be extended at any other
time.
   (C)   The alternately flashing red signal lamps of an 8-lamp flashing signal
system required by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-805 shall be actuated after the
school bus has come to a complete stop for the purpose of loading or
discharging pupils and shall be turned off before the school bus is placed in
motion again. The red signal lamps shall not be actuated at any other time
except as provided in division (D) below.
   (D)   (1)   The alternately flashing amber signal lamps of an 8-lamp
flashing signal system required by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-805 shall be
actuated continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
school bus before stopping for the purpose of loading or discharging pupils
within an urban area, and during not less than the last 200 feet traveled by
the school bus outside an urban area. The amber signal lamps shall remain
actuated until the school bus is stopped. The amber signal lamps shall not be
actuated at any other time.
      (2)   The alternately flashing headlamps permitted by ILCS Ch. 625, Act
5, § 12-805 may be operated while the alternately flashing red or amber signal
maps required by that section are actuated.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway having 4 or more lanes which
permits at least 2 lanes of traffic to travel in opposite directions need not
stop the vehicle upon meeting a school bus which is stopped in the opposing
roadway; and need not stop the vehicle when driving upon a controlled access
highway when passing a school bus traveling in either direction that is stopped
in a loading zone adjacent to the surfaced or improved part of the controlled
access highway where pedestrians are not permitted to cross.
   (F)    In addition to the suspensions authorized by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §
11-1414, any person convicted of violating this section shall be subject to a
mandatory fine of $150, or upon a second or subsequent violation $500.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1414) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.046 ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   Upon a roadway designated for 1-way traffic, a vehicle shall be driven
only in the direction designated at all or such times as shall be indicated by
official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island must be driven only
to the right of the island.
   (C)   Whenever any highway has been divided into 2 or more roadways by
leaving an intervening space or by a physical barrier or a clearly indicated
dividing section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle
must be driven only upon the right-hand roadway unless directed or permitted to
use another roadway by official traffic-control devices or police officers. No
vehicle may be driven over, across, or within any dividing space, barrier, or
section except through an opening in the physical barrier, or dividing section,
or space, or at a cross-over or intersection as established by public
authority.
   (D)   The driver of a vehicle may turn left across a paved, noncurbed
dividing space unless prohibited by an official traffic-control device.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-708) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.047 NO-PASSING ZONES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees is authorized to determine those portions of any
highway within the village where overtaking and passing or driving on the left
of the roadway would be especially hazardous, and may by appropriate signs or
markings on the roadway indicate the beginning and end of the zones, and when
signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily observant
person, every driver of a vehicle shall obey the directions thereof.
   (B)   Where signs or markings are in place to define a no-passing zone as
set forth in division (A) no driver may at any time drive on the left side of
the roadway within the no-passing zone or on the left side of any pavement
striping designed to mark the no-passing zone throughout its length.
   (C)   This section does not apply under the conditions described in §
71.040(A)(2), nor to the driver of a vehicle turning left into or from an
alley, private road, or driveway. The pavement striping designed to mark the
no-passing zone may be crossed from the left-hand lane for the purpose of
completing a pass that was begun prior to the beginning of the zone in the
driver’s direction of travel.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-707) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.048 DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into 2 or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic the following rules in addition to all others consistent herewith
shall apply:
   (A)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from that lane until the driver has first
ascertained that the movement can be made with safety;
   (B)   Upon a roadway which is divided into 3 lanes and provides for 2-way
movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center lane except
when overtaking and passing another vehicle traveling in the same direction
when the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or in
preparation for making a left turn or where the center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the same direction that the vehicle
is proceeding and the allocation is designated by official traffic-control
devices;
   (C)   Official traffic-control devices may be erected directing specific
traffic to use a designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by
traffic moving in a particular direction regardless of the center of the
roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such device.
Drivers must obey lane designation signing except when it is necessary to use a
different lane to make a turning maneuver; and
   (D)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the
directions of every such device.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-709) Penalty, see §
71.999
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 71.060 VEHICLES APPROACHING OR ENTERING INTERSECTION.
   When 2 vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different roadways at
approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left must yield
the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right. This rule may be modified at
through highways or streets and where otherwise inconsistent with the
provisions of this traffic code.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-901) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.061 VEHICLE TURNING LEFT.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an intersection
or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but the driver, having so yielded, may proceed
as soon as a safe interval occurs.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-902) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.062 VEHICLES ENTERING STOP CROSSWALK.
   Where stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an intersection, or
flashing red signals are in place at a plainly marked crosswalk between
intersections, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the nearest
crosswalk, and pedestrians within or entering the crosswalk at either edge of
the roadway shall have the right-of-way over vehicles so stopped. Drivers of
vehicles having so yielded the right-of-way to pedestrians entering or within
the nearest crosswalk at an intersection shall also yield the right-of-way to
pedestrians within any other crosswalk at the intersection.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-903) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.063 VEHICLE ENTERING STOP OR YIELD INTERSECTION.
   (A)   Preferential right-of-way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
or yield signs.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line but if none, before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then
at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to
any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another roadway, or which
is approaching so closely on the roadway as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when the driver is moving across or within the intersection,
but the driver, having so yielded, may proceed as soon as a safe interval
occurs.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in obedience
to the sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions, and,
if required for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but
if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, of
if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver
has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After slowing or
stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection.
   (D)   If a driver is involved in a collision at an intersection or
interferes with the movement of other vehicles after driving past a yield
right-of-way sign, the collision or interference shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield right-of-way.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-904) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.064 MERGING TRAFFIC.
   Notwithstanding the right-of-way provision in §
71.060, at an intersection where traffic lanes are provided for merging
traffic, the driver of each vehicle on the converging roadways is required to
adjust his or her vehicular speed and lateral position so as to avoid a
collision with another vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-905) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.065 VEHICLE ENTERING HIGHWAY FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from an alley,
building, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all
vehicles approaching on the highway to be entered.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-906) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.066 OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making
use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of this chapter, or
a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible or visual
signal, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and
shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the right-hand edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and
shall, if necessary to permit the safe passage of the emergency vehicle, stop
and remain in that position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed,
unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-907(a)(1), (b)) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Additional offenses; statutory penalties, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-907
§ 71.067 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   Funeral processions have the right-of-way at intersections when
vehicles comprising the procession have their headlights lighted, subject to
the following conditions and exceptions:
      (1)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way upon the approach of an authorized emergency vehicle giving an
audible or visible signal;
      (2)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way when directed to do so by a traffic officer; and
      (3)   The operator of the leading vehicle in a funeral procession shall
comply with stop signs and traffic-control signals but when the leading vehicle
has proceeded across an intersection in accordance with the signal or after
stopping as required by the stop sign, all vehicles in the procession may
proceed without stopping, regardless of the sign or signal, and the leading
vehicle and the vehicles in procession shall proceed with due caution.
   (B)   The operator of a vehicle not in the funeral procession shall not
drive his or her vehicle in the funeral procession except when authorized to do
so by a traffic officer or when the vehicle is an authorized emergency vehicle
giving audible or visible signal.
   (C)   Operators of vehicles not a part of a funeral procession may not form
a procession or convoy and have their headlights lighted for the purpose of
securing the right-of-way granted by this section to funeral processions.
   (D)   The operator of a vehicle not in a funeral procession may overtake and
pass the vehicles in a procession if the overtaking and passing can be
accomplished without causing a traffic hazard or interfering with the
procession.
   (E)   The lead vehicle in the funeral procession may be equipped with a
flashing amber light which may be used only when that vehicle is used as a lead
vehicle in the procession. Vehicles comprising a funeral procession may utilize
funeral pennants or flags or windshield stickers or flashing hazard warning
signal flashers to identify the individual vehicles in such a procession.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1420) Penalty, see §
71.999
SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED
§ 71.080 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL INDICATING APPROACH OF TRAIN.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad
grade crossing where the driver is not always required to stop, the person must
exercise due care and caution as the existence of a railroad track across a
highway is a warning of danger, and under any of the circumstances stated in
this section, the driver shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet
from the nearest rail of the railroad, and shall not proceed until the tracks
are clear and he or she can do so safely. The foregoing requirements shall
apply when:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered or a human flagger gives or continues
to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
         (c)   A railroad train approaching a highway crossing emits a warning
signal and the train, by reason of its speed or nearness to the crossing, is an
immediate hazard;
         (d)   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity to the crossing; or
         (e)   A railroad train is approaching so closely that an immediate
hazard is created.
      (2)   Whenever a person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing where the driver is not always required to stop but must slow down,
the person must exercise due care and caution as the existence of a railroad
track across a highway is a warning of danger, and under any of the
circumstances stated in this section, the driver shall slow down within 50 feet
but not less than 15 feet from the nearest rail of the railroad and shall not
proceed until he or she checks that the tracks are clear of an approaching
train.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   When stop signs are erected at railroad grade crossings, the driver of
any vehicle shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the
nearest rail of the railroad, and shall proceed only upon exercising due care.
   (D)   At any railroad grade crossing provided with railroad crossbuck signs,
without automatic, electric, or mechanical signal devices, crossing gates, or a
human flagger giving a signal of the approach or passage of a train, the driver
of a vehicle shall in obedience to the railroad crossbuck sign, yield the
right-of-way and slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions
and shall stop, if required for safety, at a clearly marked stopped line, or if
no stop line, within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the nearest rail of
the railroad and shall not proceed until he or she or she can do so safely. If
a driver is involved in a collision at a railroad crossing or interferes with
the movement of a train after driving past the railroad crossbuck sign, the
collision or interference is prima facie evidence of the driver’s failure to
yield right-of-way.
   (E)   No person shall, while driving a commercial motor vehicle, fail to
negotiate a railroad-highway grade railroad crossing because of insufficient
undercarriage clearance.
   (F)   It is unlawful to violate any part of this section.
      (1)   A violation of this section is a petty offense for which a fine of
$250 shall be imposed for a first violation, and a fine of $500 shall be
imposed for a second or subsequent violation. The court may impose 25 hours of
community service in place of the $250 fine for the first violation.
      (2)   For a second or subsequent violation, the Secretary of State may
suspend the driving privileges of the offender for a minimum of 6 months.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1201) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.081 CERTAIN VEHICLES MUST STOP AT ALL RAILROAD GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   The driver of any of the following vehicles shall, before crossing a
railroad track or tracks at grade, stop that vehicle within 50 feet but not
less than 15 feet from the nearest rail, and while so stopped, shall listen and
look for the approach of a train, and shall not proceed until that movement can
be made with safety:
      (1)   Any second division vehicle carrying passengers for hire;
      (2)   Any bus that meets all of the special requirements for school buses
in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-801, 12-803, and 12-804. The driver of the bus,
in addition to complying with all other applicable requirements of this
division (A), must also turn off all noise-producing accessories, including
heater blowers, defroster fans, auxiliary fans, and radios, before crossing a
railroad track or tracks;
      (3)   Any other vehicle which is required by federal or state law to be
placarded when carrying as a cargo or part of a cargo “hazardous material” as
defined in ILCS Ch. 430, Act 30, § 3. After stopping as required in this
section, the driver shall proceed only in a gear not requiring a change of
gears during the crossing, and the driver shall not shift gears while crossing
the track or tracks.
   (B)   This section shall not apply:
      (1)   At any railroad grade crossing where traffic is controlled by a
police officer or a human flagger;
      (2)   At any railroad grade crossing controlled by a functioning traffic-
control signal transmitting a green indication which, under law, permits the
vehicle to proceed across the railroad tracks without slowing or stopping,
except that division (A) of this section shall apply to any school bus;
      (3)   At any streetcar grade crossing within a business or residence
district; or
      (4)   At any abandoned industrial or spur track railroad grade crossing
designated as exempt by the Illinois Commerce Commission and marked with an
official sign as authorized in the state Manual of Uniform Traffic-control
Devices for Streets and Highways.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1202) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.082 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, BUILDING, PRIVATE ROAD, OR DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private road, or
driveway within an urban area shall stop the vehicle immediately prior to
driving into the sidewalk area extending across the alley, building entrance,
road, or driveway, or in the event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the
point nearest the street to be entered where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic thereon, and shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrians as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the
roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1205) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.083 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   (A)   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk, or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk, or railroad grade crossing to accommodate
the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage of other
vehicles, pedestrians, or railroad trains, notwithstanding any traffic-control
signal indication to proceed.
   (B)   No driver shall enter a highway rail grade crossing unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the highway rail grade crossing to
accommodate the vehicle being operated without obstructing the passage of a
train or other railroad equipment using the rails, notwithstanding any traffic-
control signal indication to proceed. Any person found in violation of this
division (B) shall be subject to a mandatory fine of $500 or 50 hours of
community service.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1425) Penalty, see §
71.999
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.095 BACKING.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless the movement
can be made with safety and without interfering with other traffic.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same upon any shoulder or
roadway of any controlled- access highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1402) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.096 FOLLOWING VEHICLE TOO CLOSELY.
   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of the vehicles
and the traffic upon and conditions of the street or highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-710) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.097 OBSTRUCTION OF DRIVER’S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, exceeding 3, as to obstruct the
view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or as to interfere
with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle or streetcar shall ride in a position as to
interfere with the driver’s or motorman’s view ahead or to the sides, or to
interfere with his or her control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle or
streetcar.
   (C)   No passenger on a school bus may ride or stand in a position as to
interfere with the driver’s view ahead or to the side or to the rear, or to
interfere with his or her control of the driving mechanism of the bus.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1406) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.098 OPENING VEHICLE DOORS.
   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to moving
traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1407) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.099 COASTING.
   (A)   The driver of any motor vehicle when traveling upon a down grade shall
not coast with the gears or transmission of the vehicle in neutral.
   (B)   The driver of a truck or bus when traveling upon a down grade shall
not coast with the clutch disengaged.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1410) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.100 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS; DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall
not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than
500 feet or stop the vehicle within 500 feet of any fire apparatus stopped in
answer to a fire alarm.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1411)
   (B)   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire
Department when laid down on any street, private road, or driveway to be used
at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department
official in command.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1412) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.101 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area
except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any vehicle moved exclusively by
human power, to any electric personal assistive mobility device, nor to any
motorized wheelchair.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to limit or preempt the
authority of any home rule or non-home rule unit of the village from regulating
or prohibiting the use of electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1412.1)
   (C)   A person may not operate an electric personal assistive mobility
device upon a public sidewalk at a speed greater than 8 m.p.h.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1412.2) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.102 USE OF ROLLER SKATES, COASTERS, OR SIMILAR DEVICES.
   No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle, skateboard, or similar device shall go upon any roadway except while
crossing a street on a crosswalk and except upon streets set aside as play
streets when authorized by the traffic authority.
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.103 PUTTING GLASS OR OTHER HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ON HIGHWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall throw, spill or deposit upon any highway any bottle,
glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans, or any litter, as defined in ILCS Ch. 415, Act
105, § 3.
   (B)   Any person who violates division (A) upon any highway shall
immediately remove the material or cause it to be removed.
   (C)   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a highway shall
remove any glass or other debris, except any hazardous substance as defined in
ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.215, hazardous waste as defined in ILCS Ch. 415, Act
5, § 3.220, and potentially infectious medical waste as defined in ILCS Ch.
415, Act 5, § 3.360, dropped upon the highway from the vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1413) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.104 OBSTRUCTING PERSON IN HIGHWAYS.
   No person shall willfully and unnecessarily hinder, obstruct, or delay, or
willfully and unnecessarily attempt to delay, hinder, or obstruct any other
person in lawfully driving or traveling along or upon any highway within this
village, or offer for barter or sale merchandise on the highway so as to
interfere with the effective movement of traffic.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1416) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.105 FARM TRACTOR OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a farm tractor on a highway in this village
unless the tractor is being used as an implement of husbandry in connection
with farming operations.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the use of a farm tractor as an
implement of husbandry in connection with farming operations shall be deemed to
include use of the tractor in connection with the transportation of
agricultural products and of farm machinery, equipment, and supplies, as well
as the transportation of the implement of husbandry from its place of purchase
to its place of storage, in connection with the obtaining of repairs of the
implement of husbandry, and the towing of a registered truck of not more than
8,000 pounds for use as return transportation after the tractor is left at the
place of work or repair.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1418) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.106 DRIVING ON CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   No person may drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access highway
except at entrances and exits established by public authority.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-711) Penalty, see §
71.999
PARADES
§ 71.120 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CRUISING. The repeated operation of 2 or more vehicles in a continuous or
nearly continuous flow through a parking lot.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the village, or CRUISING as defined above.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
   PARKING LOT. Any paved or unpaved area used by a place of business or
shopping center for the parking of vehicles of their customers, but shall not
include those operated for hire.
§ 71.121 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage or participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized village official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, provided the conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities; or
      (3)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.122 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Procedure. A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an
application with the Chief of Police or other authorized village official on
forms provided by the officer.
   (B)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than 5 days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (C)   Contents. The application for a parade permit shall set forth the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
the assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his or her behalf; and
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should be issued.
   (D)   Fee. There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a
parade permit a fee in an amount as established by the Board of Trustees.
§ 71.123 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized village official shall issue a
permit when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the village to properly police the line of
movement and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police
protection to the village;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
village other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route;
   (G)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, goods, or event, and is not designated to be held purely for private
profit; or
   (H)   The parade, if it takes the form of cruising, has the approval in
writing of the owner or an authorized agent of the owner for the use of the
parking lot which is the site of the parade.
§ 71.124 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT APPLICATION.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized village official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within 3 days, Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays
excepted, after filing thereof. If he or she disapproves the application, he or
she shall mail to the applicant within the 3 days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after the date on which the application was filed, a notice
of his or her action stating the reasons for his or her denial of the permit.
§ 71.125 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the Board of Trustees. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The Board of Trustees shall act on the appeal within 30 days
after its receipt.
§ 71.126 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized village official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his or her acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall
conform to the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit
under this subchapter.
§ 71.127 NOTICE TO VILLAGE AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the Mayor and the Fire Chief.
§ 71.128 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
§ 71.129 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairperson or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his or
her person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.130 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when the vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
   (C)   Parking on parade route. The Chief of Police or other authorized
village official shall have the authority, when reasonably necessary, to
prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or other public
thoroughfare or part thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade.
Signs shall be posted to that effect, and it shall be unlawful for any person
to park or leave unattended any vehicle in violation thereof. No person shall
be liable for parking on a street or other public thoroughfare unless signs
have been posted in accordance with this section.
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.131 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The village shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued
hereunder on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
§ 71.145 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OFF-ROAD MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle or motor-driven cycle that is not
properly manufactured or equipped for general highway use nor eligible for
license registration, or exempt from license registration, pursuant to the
provisions of ILCS Ch. 625.
(Ord. 1475, passed 5-13-1986)
§ 71.146 OPERATION.
   No person shall operate an off-road motor vehicle in the village in the
following manner:
   (A)   At a speed that is unreasonable or improper under the circumstances;
   (B)   In any reckless manner so as to endanger the person or property of
another;
   (C)   While under the influence of intoxicating liquor, fermented malt
beverages, or controlled substances or drugs;
   (D)   In a way that the exhaust of the motor makes an excessive or unusual
noise;
   (E)   Without a functioning muffler or with a muffler which fails to meet
the standards of law;
   (F)   On the private property of another without the consent of the owner or
lessee. Failure to post signs does not imply consent for off-road motor vehicle
use; or
   (G)   Between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Ord. 1475, passed 5-13-1986) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.147 OPERATION ON STREETS PROHIBITED.
   No off-road motor vehicle shall be operated on the village streets, alleys,
or public places or city-owned or controlled property.
(Ord. 1475, passed 5-13-1986) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.148 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
and approval and publication as required by law.
(Ord. 1475, passed 5-13-1986)
§ 71.999 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific penalty
is otherwise provided shall be fined as set forth in §
70.99.
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Method of Parking
   
72.01   General parking regulations
   
72.02   Unattended motor vehicles
Restrictions on Stopping, Standing, and Parking
   
72.10   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited in specified places
   
72.11   Stopping, standing, or parking outside business or residence district
   
72.12   Unauthorized use of parking spaces reserved for persons with
disabilities
   
72.13   Overnight parking prohibited
Snow Emergencies
   
72.25   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.26   Termination of emergency
   
72.27   Snow emergency routes
Violations
   
72.40   Officers authorized to remove vehicles
   
72.41   Duty of lessor of vehicle on notice of violation of this chapter
 
   
72.99   Penalty
METHOD OF PARKING
§ 72.01 GENERAL PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a 2-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked with the right-hand
wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or as close as
practicable to the right edge of the right-hand shoulder.
   (B)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a 1-way roadway shall be so
stopped or parked parallel to the curb or edge of the roadway, in the direction
of authorized traffic movement, with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of
the right-hand curb or as close as practicable to the right edge of the right-
hand shoulder, or with its left-hand wheels within 12 inches of the left-hand
curb or as close as practicable to the left edge of the left-hand shoulder.
   (C)   No angle parking shall be permitted except.
   (D)   No person shall park in violation of signs placed by and under the
jurisdiction of the State Department of Transportation which prohibit, limit,
or restrict the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles on any highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1304) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without stopping the engine, locking the ignition, removing the key
from the ignition, effectively setting the brake thereon and, when standing
upon any perceptible grade, turning the front wheels to the curb or side of the
highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1401) Penalty, see §
72.99
RESTRICTIONS ON STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
§ 72.10 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer, or an official
traffic-control device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand, or park a vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure, upon a highway, or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad tracks;
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
         (j)   On any controlled-access highway;
         (k)   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers; or
         (l)   In a public parking area if the vehicle does not display a
current annual registration sticker or current temporary permit pending
registration.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop
sign, yield sign, or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of the entrance (when properly sign-posted); or
         (f)    At any place where official signs prohibit standing; or
         (g)   Within 10 feet of any public or private mailbox.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; or
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area or away from a curb a distance as is unlawful.
(Am. Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-28-2020)  Penalty, see divisions (A) and (C) of §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1303
§ 72.11 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING OUTSIDE BUSINESS OR RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Outside a business or residence district, no person shall stop, park,
or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the roadway
when it is practicable to stop, park, or so leave the vehicle off the roadway,
but in every event an unobstructed width of the highway opposite a standing
vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view
of the stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each
direction upon the highway.
   (B)   The village, with respect to highways under its jurisdiction or for
the maintenance of which it is responsible, may place signs prohibiting or
restricting the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles on any highway where
in its opinion stopping, standing, or parking is dangerous to those using the
highway, or where stopping, standing, or parking vehicles would unduly
interfere with the free movement of traffic thereon. Any regulations adopted by
the village regarding the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles upon any
specific street, streets, or highways become effective at the time of the
erection of appropriate signs indicating the regulations.
   (C)   This section, and §
72.10 and ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1304 shall not apply to the driver of any
vehicle which is disabled in a manner and to such extent that it is impossible
to avoid stopping and temporarily leaving the vehicle in that position.
   (D)   Any second division vehicle used exclusively for the collection of
garbage, refuse, or recyclable material may stop or stand on the road in a
business, rural, or residential district for the sole purpose of collecting
garbage refuse, or recyclable material. The vehicle, in addition to having its
hazard lights lighted at all times that is engaged in stopping or standing,
shall also use its amber oscillating, rotating, or flashing light or lights as
authorized under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-215(12)(b), if so equipped.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PARKING SPACES RESERVED FOR PERSONS WITH
DISABILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle which is not
properly displaying registration plates or decals issued to a person with
disabilities, as defined by §
70.01, pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 3-616, 11-1301.1, or 11-1301.2, or
to a disabled veteran pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-609, as evidence
that the vehicle is operated by or for a person with disabilities or disabled
veteran, in any parking place, including any private or public off-street
parking facility, specifically reserved, by the posting of an official sign as
designated under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-301, for motor vehicles displaying
such registration plates. It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle in a
designated access aisle adjacent to any parking place specifically reserved for
persons with disabilities, by the posting of an official sign as designated
under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-301, for motor vehicles displaying such
registration plates. When using the parking privileges for persons with
disabilities, the parking decal or device must be displayed properly in the
vehicle where it is clearly visible to law enforcement personnel, either
hanging from the rearview mirror or placed on the dashboard of the vehicle in
clear view. Any motor vehicle properly displaying a disability license plate or
a parking decal or device containing the international symbol of access issued
to persons with disabilities by any local authority, state, district,
territory, or foreign country shall be recognized as a valid license plate or
device and receive the same parking privileges as residents of the village.
      (2)   An individual with a vehicle displaying disability license plates
or a parking decal or device issued to a qualified person with a disability
under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 3-616, 11-1301.1, or 11-1301.2 or to a disabled
veteran under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-609 is in violation of this section, if:
         (a)   The person using the disability license plate or parking decal
or device is not the authorized holder of the disability license plate or
parking decal or device or is not transporting the authorized holder of the
disability license plate or parking decal or device to or from the parking
location; and
         (b)   The person uses the disability license plate or parking decal or
device to exercise any privileges granted through the disability license plate
or parking decals or devices under this code.
   (B)   Any person or local authority owning or operating any public or
private off-street parking facility may, after notifying the Police Department,
remove or cause to be removed to the nearest garage or other place of safety
any vehicle parked within a stall or space reserved for use by a person with
disabilities which does not display person with disabilities registration
plates or a special decal or device as required under this section.
   (C)   (1)   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of division
(A)(1) of this section shall be fined as set forth in §
72.99 in addition to any costs or charges connected with the removal or storage
of any motor vehicle authorized under this section. The village shall display
signs indicating the fine imposed, and if the amount of the fine is
subsequently changed, the village shall change the sign to indicate the current
amount of the fine. It shall not be a defense to a charge under this section
that either the sign posted pursuant to this section or the intended accessible
parking place does not comply with the technical requirements of ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 11-301, Department regulations, or local ordinance if a reasonable
person would be made aware by the sign or notice on or near the parking place
that the place is reserved for a person with disabilities.
      (2)   The Circuit Clerk shall distribute $250 of the $500 fine imposed on
any person who is found guilty of or pleads guilty to violating this section,
including any person placed on court supervision for violating this section, to
the law enforcement agency that issued the citation or made the arrest. If more
than 1 law enforcement agency is responsible for issuing the citation or making
the arrest, the $250 shall be shared equally.
   (D)   As used in this section, AUTHORIZED HOLDER means an individual issued
a disability license plate under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-616, an individual
issued a parking decal or device under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.2 or an
individual issued a disabled veteran’s license plate under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5,
§ 3-609.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.3) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 OVERNIGHT PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Snow. No person shall park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic-control device, on any village street or alley at any time
when the snow on a street or alley reaches a depth of 2 inches or more until
after such street or alley has been plowed and the snow removed therefrom.
   (B)   Overnight. No person shall park, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic-control device, any of the following vehicles on any street
or alley of the village at any time between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00
a.m.:
      (1)   Trucks or buses, except vehicles registered as Class B licensed
under the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code; and
      (2)   Motorized or towable construction equipment or trailers; and
      (3)   Vehicles registered as recreational vehicles under the Illinois
Motor Vehicle Code shall only be allowed to park overnight for no more than 2
consecutive calendar days and no more than 4 calendar days in any 1 calendar
year. Written notice of overnight parking shall be given to the Village Street
and Alley Commissioner at least 2 business days prior to said overnight
parking.
(Ord. 2006-20, passed 8-22-2006; Am. Ord. 2009-13, passed 8-11-2009 ) Penalty,
see
72.99
SNOW EMERGENCIES
§ 72.25 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Mayor finds that falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain will
create a condition which makes it necessary that the parking of motor vehicles
on snow emergency routes be prohibited, or whenever he or she finds on the
basis of a firm forecast of snow, sleet, or freezing rain that the weather
conditions so forecasted may create a condition making it necessary that such
parking be prohibited, he or she is authorized to announce the prohibition, to
become effective at a time specified by him or her. After the effective time of
the prohibition no person shall park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to
remain parked on a snow emergency route. However, if a fall of snow, sleet, or
freezing rain occurs after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the Mayor has
not announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency routes is to
be prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow emergency
route may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following the fall. The prohibition
of parking announced by the Mayor under the authority of this section shall
remain in effect until he or she announces the termination of the snow
emergency, in part or in whole, after which the prohibition of parking
authorized by this section shall no longer be in effect.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.26 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Mayor shall find that some or all of the conditions which gave
rise to the snow emergency prohibition no longer exist, he or she is authorized
to declare the termination of the emergency, in part or in whole, effective
immediately on announcement. If the announcement is made other than between 6:
00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it shall be repeated between those hours.
§ 72.27 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Mayor.
On a street or highway designated as a snow emergency route, special signs
shall be posted to this effect.
VIOLATIONS
§ 72.40 OFFICERS AUTHORIZED TO REMOVE VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle in violation of any of the
provisions of §
72.11 or any other applicable section of this traffic code or ordinance of the
village, the officer is authorized to move the vehicle, or require the driver
or other person in charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off
the roadway.
   (B)   Any police officer is authorized to remove or cause to be removed to a
place of safety any unattended vehicle illegally left standing upon any
highway, bridge, causeway, or in a tunnel, or in a position or under
circumstances as to obstruct the normal movement of traffic.
   (C)   Any police officer is authorized to remove or cause to be removed to
the nearest garage or other place of safety any vehicle found upon a highway
when:
      (1)   Report has been made that the vehicle has been stolen or taken
without the consent of its owner;
      (2)   The person or persons in charge of the vehicle are unable to
provide for its custody or removal; or
      (3)   When the person driving or in control of the vehicle is arrested
for an alleged offense for which the officer is required by law to take the
person arrested before a proper magistrate without unnecessary delay.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1302)
§ 72.41 DUTY OF LESSOR OF VEHICLE ON NOTICE OF VIOLATION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   Every person in whose name a vehicle is registered pursuant to law and who
leases the vehicle to others, after receiving written notice of a violation of
this chapter involving the vehicle, shall upon request provide the police
officers as have authority of the offense, and the court having jurisdiction
thereof, with a written statement of the name and address of the lessee at the
time of the offense and the identifying number upon the registration plates and
registration sticker or stickers of the vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1305)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be fined as set forth in §
70.99(B).
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates §
72.12(A)(1) shall be fined $250 in addition to any costs or charges connected
with the removal or storage of the motor vehicle, but municipalities by
ordinance may impose a fine up to $350 and shall display signs indicating the
fine imposed.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-1301.3(c))
      (2)   (a)   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of
division (A)(2) of this section shall be fined $500.
         (b)   Any person who commits a violation of §
72.12(A)(2) may have his or her driving privileges suspended or revoked by the
Secretary of State for a period of time determined by the Secretary of State.
The Secretary of State may also suspend or revoke the disability license plates
or parking decal or device for a period of time determined by the Secretary of
State.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-1301.3(c-1))
   (C)   A violation of any part of §
72.10(A)(1)(h) shall result in a mandatory fine of $500 or 50 hours of
community service.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-1303)
   (D)   Any person found to violate §
72.13 shall, upon conviction, be fined in an amount of not more than $250 for
each offense. A separate violation shall be deemed to have been committed on
each day during which a violation occurs or is permitted to continue. The
village shall have the right to file legal action to enjoin activities which
are in violation of §
72.13.
(Ord. 2006-20, passed 8-22-2006)
CHAPTER 73: MOTORCYCLES AND BICYCLES
Section
Bicycles
   
73.01   Traffic laws apply to persons riding bicycles
   
73.02   Riding on bicycles
   
73.03   Clinging to vehicles
   
73.04   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
73.05   Carrying articles
   
73.06   Lamps and other equipment on bicycles
   
73.07   Lamps on motorized pedalcycles
   
73.08   Riding on motorized pedalcycles
Motorcycles
   
73.20   Riding on motorcycles
   
73.21   Special equipment for persons riding motorcycles
   
73.22   Required equipment on motorcycles
   
73.23   Operating motorcycle on 1 wheel
BICYCLES
§ 73.01 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a highway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by this traffic code, except as to special regulations in this traffic
code, and except as to those provisions of this traffic code which by their
nature can have no application.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1502) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.02 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at 1 time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped, except that an adult rider may
carry a child securely attached to his or her person in a back pack or sling.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1503) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.03 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, or toy
vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle upon a
roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1504) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.04 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle upon a roadway
at less than the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall ride as close as practicable to the right-hand
curb or edge of the roadway except under the following situations:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another bicycle, motorized pedalcycle,
or vehicle proceeding in the same direction;
      (2)   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private
road or driveway; or
      (3)   When reasonably necessary to avoid conditions including but not
limited to fixed or moving objects, parked or moving vehicles, bicycles,
motorized pedalcycles, pedestrians, animals, surface hazards, or substandard
width lanes that make it unsafe to continue along the right-hand curb or edge.
For purposes of this subsection, A SUBSTANDARD WIDTH LANE means a lane that is
too narrow for a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle and a vehicle to travel safely
side by side within the lane.
   (B)   Any person operating a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle upon a 1-way
highway with 2 or more marked traffic lanes may ride as near the left-hand curb
or edge of the roadway as practicable.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1505)
   (C)   Persons riding bicycles or motorized pedalcycles upon a roadway shall
not ride more than 2 abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside
for their exclusive use. Persons riding 2 abreast shall not impede the normal
and reasonable movement of traffic and, on a laned roadway, shall ride within a
single lane subject to the provisions of divisions (A) and (B) above.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1505.1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.05 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article
which prevents the use of both hands in the control and operation of the
bicycle. A person operating a bicycle shall keep at least 1 hand on the
handlebars at all times.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1506) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.06 LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front, and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved
by the State Department of Transportation which shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition to the
red reflector.
   (B)   A bicycle shall not be equipped with, nor shall any person use upon a
bicycle, any siren.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will adequately
control movement of and stop and hold the bicycle.
   (D)   No person shall sell a new bicycle or pedal for use on a bicycle that
is not equipped with a reflex reflector conforming to specifications prescribed
by the State Department of Transportation, on each pedal, visible from the
front and rear of the bicycle during darkness from a distance of 200 feet.
   (E)   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with side reflectors. The reflectors shall be visible from each side
of the bicycle from a distance of 500 feet, and shall be essentially colorless
or red to the rear of the center of the bicycle and essentially colorless or
amber to the front of the center of the bicycle. The requirements of this
division may be met by reflective materials which shall be at least 3/16 inch
wide on each side of each tire or rim to indicate as clearly as possible the
continuous circular shape and size of the tires or rims of the bicycle, and
which reflective materials may be of the same color on both the front and rear
tire or rim. The reflectors shall conform to specifications prescribed by the
State Department of Transportation.
   (F)   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with an essentially colorless front-facing reflector.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1507) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.07 LAMPS ON MOTORIZED PEDALCYCLES.
   Every motorized pedalcycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with
a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of
at least 500 feet to the front, and with a red reflector on the rear of a type
approved by the State Department of Transportation which shall be visible from
all distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when in front of lawful,
low-powered beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition to the
red reflector.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1507.1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.08 RIDING ON MOTORIZED PEDALCYCLES.
   (A)   The operator of a motorized pedalcycle shall ride only astride the
permanent and regular seat attached thereto, and shall not permit 2 persons to
ride thereon at the same time, unless the motorized pedalcycle is designed to
carry 2 persons. Any motorized pedalcycle designed for 2 persons must be
equipped with a passenger seat and footrests for use of a passenger.
   (B)   Neither the operator nor any passenger on a motorized pedalcycle shall
be required to wear any special goggles, shield, helmet, or glasses.
   (C)   The provisions of §§
73.01 through
73.07 shall be applicable to the operation of motorized pedalcycles, except for
those provisions which by their nature can have no application to motorized
pedalcycles.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403.1) Penalty, see §
70.99
MOTORCYCLES
§ 73.20 RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only upon the permanent and
regular seat attached thereto, and the operator shall not carry any other
person nor shall any other person ride on a motorcycle unless the motorcycle is
designed to carry more than 1 person, in which event a passenger may ride upon
the permanent and regular seat if designed for 2 persons, or upon another seat
firmly attached to the motorcycle at the rear or side of the operator.
   (B)   A person shall ride upon a motorcycle only while sitting astride the
seat, facing forward, with 1 leg on each side of the motorcycle.
   (C)   No person shall operate any motorcycle with handlebars higher than the
height of the shoulders of the operator when the operator is seated in the
normal driving position astride that portion of the seat or saddle occupied by
the operator.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.21 SPECIAL EQUIPMENT FOR PERSONS RIDING MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   Requirement. The operator and every passenger of a motorcycle, motor
driven cycle, or motorized pedalcycle and every passenger thereon shall be
protected by glasses, goggles, or a transparent shield.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GLASSES. Ordinary eye pieces such as spectacles or sunglasses worn before
the eye, made of shatter-resistant material.
      GOGGLES. A device worn before the eyes, the predominant function of which
is protecting the eyes without obstructing peripheral vision. GOGGLES shall
provide protection from the front and sides and may or may not form a complete
seal with the face.
      SHATTER-RESISTANT MATERIAL. Material so manufactured, fabricated, or
created that it substantially prevents shattering or flying when struck or
broken.
      TRANSPARENT SHIELD. A windshield attached to the front of a motorcycle
that extends above the eyes when an operator is seated in the normal, upright
riding position, made of shatter- resistant material, or a shatter-resistant
protective face shield that covers the wearer’s eyes and face at least to a
point approximately above the tip of the nose.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1404) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.22 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT ON MOTORCYCLES.
   Any motorcycle carrying a passenger, other than in a sidecar or enclosed
cab, shall be equipped with footrests for the passenger.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1405) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.23 OPERATING MOTORCYCLE ON 1 WHEEL.
   Any person who operates a motorcycle on 1 wheel is guilty of reckless
driving as defined in §
76.01.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403.2) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 74: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
74.01   Pedestrian obedience to traffic-control devices and traffic regulations
   
74.02   Pedestrian right-of-way at crosswalks
   
74.03   Crossing at other than crosswalks
   
74.04   Drivers to avoid colliding with pedestrians
   
74.05   Pedestrian with disabilities; right-of-way
   
74.06   Pedestrians to use right half of crosswalks
   
74.07   Pedestrians soliciting rides or business
   
74.08   Pedestrians walking on highways
   
74.09   Right-of-way on sidewalks
   
74.10   Pedestrians yield to authorized emergency vehicles
   
74.11   Pedestrians under influence of alcohol or drugs
   
74.12   Bridge and railroad signals
   
74.13   Motorized wheelchairs
   
74.14   Electric personal assistive mobility devices
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01 PEDESTRIAN OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES AND TRAFFIC
REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A pedestrian shall obey the instructions of any official traffic-
control device specifically applicable to him or her, unless otherwise directed
by a police officer.
   (B)   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic and pedestrian-control signals
provided in §§
70.31 and
70.32 of this traffic code; but at all other places, pedestrians shall be
accorded the privileges and shall be subject to the restrictions stated in this
chapter.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1001) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.02 PEDESTRIAN RIGHT-OF-WAY AT CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place, or not in operation,
the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping
if need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety,
and walk or run into the path of a moving vehicle which is so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section shall not apply under the condition
stated in §
74.03(B).
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
   (E)   Whenever stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an
intersection or at a plainly marked crosswalk between intersections, drivers
shall yield right-of-way to pedestrians as set forth in §
71.062.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1002) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.03 CROSSING AT OTHER THAN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk, or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection, shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic- control devices; and, when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to the crossing movements.
   (E)   Pedestrians with disabilities may cross a roadway at any point other
than within a marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk where the
intersection is physically inaccessible to them but they shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1003) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.04 DRIVERS TO AVOID COLLIDING WITH PEDESTRIANS.
   Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, every driver of a vehicle
shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian, or any person
operating a bicycle or other device propelled by human power and shall give
warning by sounding the horn when necessary, and shall exercise proper
precaution upon observing any child or any obviously confused, incapacitated,
or intoxicated person.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1003.1) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.05 PEDESTRIAN WITH DISABILITIES; RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian with
clearly visible disabilities.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1004) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.06 PEDESTRIANS TO USE RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALKS.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1005) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.07 PEDESTRIANS SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting
employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle, unless expressly permitted by
this code. Solicitation on highways within this village shall be allowed only
at intersections where all traffic is required to come to a full stop. Any
person engaged in the act of solicitation shall be 16 years of age or more and
shall be wearing a high visibility vest. The soliciting agency shall be:
      (1)   Registered with the Attorney General as a charitable organization
as provided by “An Act to regulate solicitation and collection of funds for
charitable purposes, providing for violations thereof, and making an
appropriation therefor,” approved July 26, 1963, as amended;
      (2)   Engaged in a statewide fund raising activity; and
      (3)   Liable for any injuries to any person or property during the
solicitation which is casually related to an act of ordinary negligence of the
soliciting agent.
   (D)   No person shall stand on or in the proximity of a roadway for the
purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or
about to be parked on a street or highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1006) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.08 PEDESTRIANS WALKING ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of a roadway and, if on a 2-way roadway, shall walk only on the
left side of the roadway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any pedestrian upon a
roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1007) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.09 RIGHT-OF-WAY ON SIDEWALKS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrians on a
sidewalk.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1008) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.10 PEDESTRIANS YIELD TO AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making use of
an audible signal and visual signals meeting the requirements of ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 12-601, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an
audible signal only, every pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the
authorized emergency vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1009) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.11 PEDESTRIANS UNDER INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol or any drug to a degree
which renders himself or herself a hazard shall not walk or be upon a highway,
except on a sidewalk.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1010) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.12 BRIDGE AND RAILROAD SIGNALS.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate, or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   No pedestrian shall enter, remain upon, or traverse over a railroad
grad crossing or pedestrian walkway crossing a railroad track when an audible
bell or clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device is operational
giving warning of the approach of a railroad train.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1011) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.13 MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS.
   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair upon a sidewalk or roadway
shall be granted all the rights and shall be subject to all the duties
applicable to a pedestrian.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1004.1)
§ 74.14 ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   Every person operating an electric personal assistive mobility device upon a
sidewalk or roadway has all the rights and is subject to all the duties
applicable to a pedestrian.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1005.1)
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
70.99.
   (B)   (1)   A violation of §
74.12 is a petty offense for which a $250 fine shall be imposed for a first
violation, and a $500 fine shall be imposed for a second or subsequent
violation. The court may impose 25 hours of community service in place of the
$250 fine for a first violation.
      (2)   Local authorities shall impose fines as established in division (B)
(1) above for pedestrians who fail to obey signals indicating the presence,
approach, passage, or departure of a train.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1011)
CHAPTER 75: EQUIPMENT; LOADS
Section
Equipment
   
75.01   Scope and effect of equipment requirements
Loads
   
75.10   Scope and effect of size, weight, and load regulations
   
75.11   Projecting loads on passenger vehicles
   
75.12   Protruding members of vehicles
   
75.13   Spilling loads prohibited
   
75.14   Pushing of disabled vehicles
EQUIPMENT
§ 75.01 SCOPE AND EFFECT OF EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move, or for the owner to
cause or knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in an unsafe condition as to endanger any
person or property, or which does not contain those parts or is not at all
times equipped with the lamps and other equipment in proper condition and
adjustment as required in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-101 et seq., or which is
equipped in any manner in violation of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-101 et seq.,
or for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required
under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-101 et seq.
   (B)   The provisions of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-101 et seq., with respect
to equipment on vehicles, shall not apply to implements of husbandry, road
machinery, road rollers, or farm tractors, or to farm-wagon type trailers
having a fertilizer spreader attachment permanently mounted thereon, having a
gross weight of not to exceed 36,000 pounds and used only for the
transportation of bulk fertilizer, or to farm-wagon type tank trailers of not
to exceed 2,000 gallons capacity, used during the liquid fertilizer season as
field-storage “nurse tanks,” supplying the fertilizer to a field applicator and
highways only for bringing the fertilizer to a field applicator from a local
source of supply to the farm or field or from one farm or field to another.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-101) Penalty, see §
70.99
LOADS
§ 75.10 SCOPE AND EFFECT OF SIZE, WEIGHT, AND LOAD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move on, upon, or across, or
for the owner to cause to knowingly permit to be driven or moved on, upon, or
across any highway any vehicle or vehicles of a size and weight exceeding the
limitations stated in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 15-101 et seq., or otherwise in
violation of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 15-101 et seq.
   (B)   The provisions of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 15-101 et seq. governing
size, weight, and load do not apply to fire apparatus or equipment for snow and
ice removal operations owned or operated by the village, or to implements of
husbandry, as defined in §
70.01, temporarily operated or towed in a combination upon a highway provided
the combination does not consist of more than 3 vehicles or, in the case of
hauling fresh, perishable fruits or vegetables from farm to the point of first
processing, not more than 3 wagons being towed by an implement of husbandry, or
to a vehicle operated under the terms of a special permit.
   (C)   The provisions of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15.101 governing size,
weight, and load do not apply to any snow and ice removal equipment that is no
more than 12 feet in width, if the equipment displays flags at least 18 inches
square mounted on the driver’s side of the snow plow. These vehicles must be
equipped with an illuminated rotating, oscillating, or flashing amber light or
lights, or a flashing amber strobe light or lights, mounted on the top of the
cab and of sufficient intensity to be visible at 500 feet in normal sunlight.
If the load on the transport vehicle blocks the visibility of the amber
lighting from the rear of the vehicle, the vehicle must also be equipped with
an illuminated rotating, oscillating, or flashing amber light or lights, or a
flashing amber strobe light or lights, mounted on the rear of the load and of
sufficient intensity to be visible at 500 feet in normal sunlight.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-101)
   (D)   No person shall use the highways under the jurisdiction of the village
in violation of weight and location restrictions and commercial vehicle
restrictions.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Power of village to regulate loads, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-40-1
§ 75.11 PROJECTING LOADS ON PASSENGER VEHICLES.
   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on any street with any load
carried thereon extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side of
the vehicle, nor extending more than 6 inches beyond the line of the fenders on
the right side thereof.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-105) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.12 PROTRUDING MEMBERS OF VEHICLES.
   No vehicle with boom, arm, drill rig, or other protruding component shall be
operated upon any highway in the village unless the protruding component is
fastened so as to prevent shifting, bouncing, or moving in any manner.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-106) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.13 SPILLING LOADS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street unless the vehicle
is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping,
shifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand may be
dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other substance may
be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining the roadway.
   (B)   No person shall operate on any highway any vehicle with any load
unless the load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to prevent
the covering or load from becoming loose, detached, or in any manner a hazard
to other users of the highway.
   (C)   The State Department of Transportation shall adopt those rules and
regulations it deems appropriate which require the securing of steel rolls and
other objects on flatbed trucks so as to prevent injury to users of highways
and damage to property. Any person who operates a flatbed truck on any highway
in violation of the rules and regulations promulgated by the State Department
of Transportation under this division shall be punished as provided in §
70.99.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-109) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.14 PUSHING OF DISABLED VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful under any circumstances for any vehicle to push any other
vehicle on or along any highway outside an urban area in this village, except
in an extreme emergency, and then the vehicle shall not be pushed farther than
is reasonably necessary to remove it from the roadway or from the immediate
hazard that exists.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-114) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 76: MOTOR VEHICLE OFFENSES
Section
   
76.01   Reckless driving
   
76.02   Drag racing
   
76.03   Accidents involving death or personal injuries
   
76.04   Duty to give information and render aid
   
76.05   Accident involving damage to vehicle
   
76.06   Duty upon damaging unattended vehicle or other property
   
76.07   Duty to report accident
   
76.08   False reports
   
76.09   When driver fails to report
§ 76.01 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   A person commits reckless driving if he or she:
   (A)   Drives any vehicle with a willful or wanton disregard for the safety
of persons or property; or
   (B)   Knowingly drives a vehicle and uses an incline in a roadway, such as a
railroad crossing, bridge approach or hill, to cause the vehicle to become
airborne.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-503(a)) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.02 DRAG RACING.
   (A)   Any person who, as an operator of a motor vehicle, is convicted of
being a participant in drag racing shall be subject to the penalties provided
in this chapter.
   (B)   DRAG RACING means the act of 2 or more individuals competing or racing
on any street or highway in this village in a situation in which 1 of the motor
vehicles is beside or to the rear of a motor vehicle operated by a competing
driver, and the one driver attempts to prevent the competing driver from
passing or overtaking, either by acceleration or maneuver, or 1 or more
individuals competing in a race against time on any street in this village.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-504) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.03 ACCIDENTS INVOLVING DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURIES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle accident
resulting in personal injury to or death of any person shall immediately stop
the vehicle at the scene of the accident, or as close thereto as possible, and
shall then forthwith return to, and in every event shall remain at the scene of
the accident until the requirements of §
76.04 have been fulfilled. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing
traffic more than is necessary.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, PERSONAL INJURY shall mean any injury
requiring immediate professional treatment in a medical facility or doctor’s
office.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-401) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.04 DUTY TO GIVE INFORMATION AND RENDER AID.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle accident
resulting in injury to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle which is
driven or attended by any person shall give the driver’s name, address,
registration number, and owner of the vehicle the driver is operating, and
shall upon request and if available, exhibit the driver’s license to the person
struck or the driver or occupant of or person attending any vehicle collided
with, and shall render to any person injured in the accident reasonable
assistance, including the carrying or the making of arrangements for the
carrying of the person to a physician, surgeon, or hospital for medical or
surgical treatment, if it is apparent that that treatment is necessary or if
the carrying is requested by the injured person.
   (B)   If none of the persons entitled to information pursuant to this
section is in condition to receive and understand the information and no police
officer is present, the driver, after rendering reasonable assistance, shall
forthwith report the accident at the Police Department, disclosing the
information required by this section.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-403) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.05 ACCIDENT INVOLVING DAMAGE TO VEHICLE.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle accident
resulting only in damage to a vehicle which is driven or attended by any person
shall immediately stop the vehicle at the scene of the motor vehicle accident
or as close thereto as possible, but shall forthwith return to and in every
event shall remain at the scene of the motor vehicle accident until the
requirements of this chapter have been fulfilled. Every stop shall be made
without obstructing traffic more than is necessary.
   (B)   Upon conviction of a violation of this section, the court shall make a
finding as to whether the damage to a vehicle is in excess of $1,000, and in
such case a statement of this finding shall be reported to the Secretary of
State with the report of conviction.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-402) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.06 DUTY UPON DAMAGING UNATTENDED VEHICLE OR OTHER PROPERTY.
   The driver of any vehicle which collides with or is involved in a motor
vehicle accident with any vehicle which is unattended, or other property,
resulting in any damage to the other vehicle or property shall immediately stop
and shall then and there either locate and notify the operator or owner of the
vehicle or other property of the driver’s name, address, registration number,
and owner of the vehicle the driver was operating or shall attach securely in a
conspicuous place on or in the vehicle or other property struck a written
notice giving the driver’s name, address, registration number, and owner of the
vehicle the driver was driving and shall without unnecessary delay notify the
Police Department and shall make a written report of the accident when and as
required in §
76.07. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-404) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.07 DUTY TO REPORT ACCIDENT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
within this village, resulting in injury to or death of any person or in which
damage to the property of any 1 person, including himself or herself, in excess
of $500 is sustained shall, as soon as possible but not later than 10 days
after the accident, file with the Police Department a copy of the written
report required to be filed with the state under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-406
(a).
   (B)   Whenever a school bus is involved in an accident in this village,
caused by a collision, a sudden stop, or otherwise, resulting in any property
damage, personal injury, or death, and whenever an accident occurs within 50
feet of a school bus in this village resulting in personal injury to or the
death of any person while awaiting or preparing to board the bus or immediately
after exiting the bus, the driver shall as soon as possible, but not later than
10 days after the accident, file with the Police Department a copy of the
written report required to be filed with the state under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §
11-406(b). If a report is also required under division (A) above, that report
and the report required by this division (B) shall be submitted on a single
form.
   (C)   The Chief of Police may require any driver, occupant, or owner of a
vehicle involved in an accident of which report must be made as provided in
this section or §
76.09 to file supplemental reports whenever the original report is insufficient
in the opinion of the Chief of Police and may require witnesses of the accident
to submit written reports. The report may include photographs, charts,
sketches, and graphs.
   (D)   Should the Police Department learn through other reports of accidents
required by law of the occurrence of an accident reportable under this chapter
and the driver, owner, or witness has not reported as required under (A)
through (C) above or §
76.09 within the time specified, the person is not relieved of the
responsibility and the Police Department shall notify the person by first class
mail directed to his or her last known address of his or her legal obligation.
However, the notification is not a condition precedent to impose the penalty
for failure to report as provided in division (E) below.
   (E)   The Secretary of State shall suspend the driver’s license or any
nonresident’s driving privilege of any person who fails or neglects to make
report of a traffic accident as herein required or as required by any other law
of this state.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-406)
Statutory reference:
   Authorization for village to require accident reports, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act
5, § 11-415
§ 76.08 FALSE REPORTS.
   Any person who provides information in an oral or written report required by
this chapter with knowledge or reason to believe that the information is false
shall be fined as provided in §
70.99.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-409)
§ 76.09 WHEN DRIVER FAILS TO REPORT.
   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of making a
required written accident report and if there was another occupant in the
vehicle at the time of the motor vehicle accident capable of making a written
report, the occupant shall make or cause the written report to be made. If the
driver fails for any reason to make the report the owner of the vehicle
involved in the motor vehicle accident shall, as soon as practicable, make the
report to the Police Department.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-410)
CHAPTER 77: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Stop signs
SCHEDULE I. STOP SIGNS.
   The placement of stop signs shall be authorized at the following locations:
Number of Signs Intersection Number of Signs
Number of Signs Intersection                       Number of Signs
                McGinty and Hugh                   1
                McGinty and Stellon                2
                McGinty and Clark                  1
                McGinty and Patmore                1
                Stellon and Dewey                  2
2               Stellon and Wall                   2
2               Stellon and Redmond                2
                Stellon and Tinman                 2
2               Stellon and Daly                   2
2               Stellon and School                 2
2               Stellon and Calkey                 2
1               Stellon and Will Road
2               Clark and Dewey                    2
2               Clark and Wall                     2
2               Clark and Redmond                  2
2               Clark and Tinman                   2
2               Clark and Daly                     2
                Clark and School                   2
2               Clark and Calkey                   2
                Clark and Curtis                   1
1               Clark and Will Road
                Clark and Tash                     1
2               School and Peachtree               1
                School and Cherrytree              1
1               Border and Will Road               2
2               Border and Calkey                  2
                Calkey and Girot                   1
                Calkey and Sterling Ct.            1
                Calkey and Perona                  1
                Calkey and Skinner                 1
                Berta Road and Regent              1
2               Berta Road and Spring Road         2
1               Marquise and Regent
1               Laura Lane and Spring Road
2               Laura Lane and Bertino Drive       1
2               Laura Lane and Amber Lane          1
2               Bertino Drive and Crystal          2
1               Bertino Drive and Heritage Drive   2
1               Heritage Drive and Spring Road
                Heritage Drive and Rock Ridge      1
1               Heritage Drive and Amber Lane      2
1               Heritage Drive and Sandstone Drive 1
                Rock Ridge and Sandstone Drive     1
1               Rock Ridge and Farmstone Drive
1               Farmstone and Sandstone Drive      2
1               Farmstone and Spring Road
1               Crystal and Amber Lane
1               Wall and Hugh
2               Will Road and Spring Road          2
2               Will Road and Girot Lane
1               Kevin Drive and Patmore Street
1               Kevin Drive and McGinty Street
The number of stop signs on each intersection is noted on the street that the
sign is located: such as, Crystal and Amber intersection, there is a stop
sign on Crystal and none on Amber. A 4-way stop will have 2 number signs on
each side of the intersection.
 
(Ord. 2006-14, passed 6-13-2006; Am. Ord. 2007-12, passed 6-26-2007; Am. Ord.
2007-23, passed 10-9-2007; Am. Ord. 2008-13, passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. 2017-
19, passed 10-10-2017; Am. Ord. 2021-8, passed 6-8-2021; Am. Ord. 2021-9,
passed 6-22-2021; Am. Ord. 2022-23, passed 12-13-2022)
CHAPTER 78: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking prohibited
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   In order to provide the health, safety, and welfare of its citizens,
it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to park any motor
vehicle on either side of Illinois Route 113 (Division Street) from the west
corporate limits (at Fifth Avenue) easterly 1.76 miles to the east corporate
limits of the Village of Diamond.
   (B)   The Diamond Village Commission will enact further ordinances requiring
parking restrictions at locations immediately adjacent to the improvement, as
may be determined to be necessary by the state from results of traffic capacity
studies when construction on the above described state section has been
completed and the affected highway resumes normal operations.
   (C)   This schedule shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage, approval, and publication in pamphlet form, as provided by law.
(Ord. 1993-19, passed 12-14-1993) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   NUISANCES
      
91.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
93.   FAIR HOUSING
      
94.   PARK RULES AND REGULATIONS
      
95.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
96.   ANIMALS
      
97.   KEEPING AND MAINTAINING OF CHICKENS
CHAPTER 90: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   [Reserved]
   
90.02   [Reserved]
   
90.03   General prohibited conduct
Noise
   
90.15   Definitions
   
90.16   Weighted sound level
   
90.17   Day hours
   
90.18   Night hours
   
90.19   Variance permits
   
90.20   Exemptions
   
90.21   Effective date
Weeds and Vegetation
   
90.30   Excessive grass and weed growth prohibited
   
90.31   Removal; notice
   
90.32   Abatement
Camping
   
90.45   Public camping prohibited
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned Vehicles, see
Ch. 91
   Landscape standards, see §§
150.75 through
150.83
   Solicitation, see §
111.32
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 [RESERVED].
§ 90.02 [RESERVED].
§ 90.03 GENERAL PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   Within the territorial jurisdiction of the Village of Diamond,
Illinois, it is hereby declared to be a nuisance for any person, persons, or
corporation:
      (1)   To establish, maintain, or carry on any offensive or unwholesome
business, trade, employment, or manufacture; or to so conduct any business or
use any premises, whether for business or other purposes, so that smoke or
other noxious exhalations or offensive smells or odors are emitted; or to so
conduct any premises, whether for business or otherwise, as to make them
dangerous to the health of individuals or the public;
      (2)   To throw, deposit, or strew, or suffer to be deposited or strewn,
any dirt, filth, ashes, tin cans, bottles, the carcass of any dead animal, or
other rubbish or noisome substance in any lot, street, alley, highway, water
course, ditch, pond, or other public or private place, or to permit or suffer
any such filth or rubbish to remain in any such public or private place;
      (3)   To obstruct or impede the free passage of water through any gutter,
ditch, or open drain, or obstruct or impede the natural drainage of any public
or private property;
      (4)   To obstruct or impede any public highway, or any public or private
way, street, or alley;
      (5)   To suffer to remain on his, her, or its premises, to the annoyment
or detriment of other persons, a dilapidated building liable to fall or take
fire, and which by reason of its proximity to the contiguous or adjacent
building and premises of other persons does endanger their life or property;
      (6)   To suffer or stand or remain on his, their, or its premises, water
which is or which may become stagnant, fowl, and offensive, as well as
detrimental to the health of persons residing in the neighborhood thereof;
      (7)   To use in the erection of, or repairing of, any building, a
scaffold or scaffolds not wide enough to ensure the safety of persons passing
under or near the same;
      (8)   To suffer any animal, which is owned by any such person, persons,
or corporation, which may come to its death in any manner, to lie, for more
than 24 hours after its death, in or upon any way, street, or alley, or in or
upon any public or private place;
      (9)   To suffer to remain on his, her, or its premises, to the annoyment
or detriment of other persons, or in the condition that children will be
attracted thereto and in being attracted may be injured therein or thereon, any
uncovered or inadequately covered well, or any ditch, excavation, foundation,
building, lumber pile, or pile of other material, or any structure of any kind;
      (10)   To throw any nails, broken glass, or other sharp instrumentality
in any public way, street, or alley;
      (11)   To throw any nails, bottles, tin cans, papers, or other rubbish,
or other harmful or offensive matter, from any vehicle while the vehicle is
standing or moving over or along any public way, street, or alley.
   (B)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage, approval, and publication according to law.
(Ord. 12, passed 10-2-1950) Penalty, see §
90.99
NOISE
§ 90.15 DEFINITIONS.
   All terminology used in this subchapter shall be in conformance with
applicable publications of the American National Standard Institute(ANSI) or
its successor body.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1983)
§ 90.16 WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL.
   This means the sound pressure level decibels as measured on a sound level
meter using the “A” weighting network. The level so read is designated dB (A)
or dBA.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1983)
§ 90.17 DAY HOURS.
   No person shall cause or allow the emission of sound during daytime hours
(7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.) from any noise source to any receiving residential
land which exceeds 65 dBA when measured at any point within the receiving
residential land, provided, however, that point of measurement shall be on the
property line of the complainant.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1983) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 NIGHT HOURS.
   No person shall cause or allow the emission of sound during night time hours
(10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.) from any noise source to any receiving residential
land which exceeds 60 dBA when measured at any point within the receiving
residential land, provided, however, that point of measurement shall be on the
property line of the complainant.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1983) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19 VARIANCE PERMITS.
   (A)   Variance permits may be issued by the village to exceed the noise
standards set forth in this subchapter as follows.
   (B)   A temporary variance permit may be issued upon request, provided that
the work producing the noise is necessary to promote the public health and/or
welfare and reasonable steps are taken to keep the noise at the lowest
practical level.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1983)
§ 90.20 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Emergency operations. Emergency short-term operations which are
necessary to protect the health and welfare of the citizens, such as emergency
utility and street repair, fallen tree removal, or emergency fuel oil delivery,
shall be exempt, provided that reasonable steps shall be taken by those in
charge of the operations to minimize noise emanating from the same.
   (B)   Noises required by law. The provisions of this section shall not apply
to any noise required specifically by law for the protection or safety of
people or property.
   (C)   Powered equipment. Powered equipment such as lawn mowers, small lawn
and garden tools, riding tractors, and snow removal equipment which is
necessary for the maintenance of property, is kept in good repair and
maintenance, and which equipment, when new, would not comply with the standards
set forth in this subchapter, shall be exempted.
   (D)   Community events. The term “community events” shall include things
such as parades, festivals, drum corp shows, sports events, Fourth of July
celebrations, sanctioned or sponsored in whole or in part by local governments,
schools, or charitable or service organizations.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1983)
§ 90.21 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage, approval, and publication, as provided by law.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1983)
WEEDS AND VEGETATION
§ 90.30 EXCESSIVE GRASS AND WEED GROWTH PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The Village of Diamond hereby prohibits any person owning, occupying,
using or who is otherwise responsible for the upkeep of any property within the
Village of Diamond from allowing or permitting the growth of any plant species
regarded or capable of classification under the laws or auspices of the State
of Illinois as a nuisance species or from allowing or permitting the growth to
a height in excess of 8 inches of any weeds (including but not limited to
jimpson, burdock, ragweed, thistle and cocklebur), grass, plants or other
vegetation on any such parcel of property, provided, however, that the
prohibitions set forth herein shall not apply to:
      (1)   Trees, bushes, shrubs, flowers;
      (2)   Any intentionally cultivated agricultural vegetation;
      (3)   Any vegetation cultivated or maintained in an effort to preserve,
promote and protect plant species native to Illinois;
      (4)   Any vegetation intentionally cultivated or maintained in an effort
to reproduce ecosystems or environmental conditions naturally existing in the
State of Illinois; or
      (5)   Any vegetation intentionally cultivated or maintained in a clearly
defined and physically discrete area for landscaping, ornamental or other
aesthetic purposes.
   (B)   Any such weeds or plants which are permitted to grow in violation of
this subchapter are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 1990-6, passed 6-26-1990; Am. Ord. 2007-19, passed 8-28-2007)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.31 REMOVAL; NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to serve or cause to be served a
notice on the owner or occupant of any premises on which weeds or plants are
permitted to grow in violation of the provisions of this subchapter and to
demand abatement of the nuisance within 5 days; provided, however, that the
Village Clerk shall not be required to serve more than 1 notice to the same
owner or occupant during any 1 calendar year, even for separate violations.
(Ord. 1990-6, passed 6-26-1990; Am. Ord. 2007-19, passed 8-28-2007)
§ 90.32 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within 5 days, or
if the village has previously served the person with a notice of violation
during the same calendar year, the village may proceed to abate the nuisance.
The village shall keep a record of all time spent in abating the nuisance, and
the property owner or occupant shall be billed at the rate of $200 per hour for
the first hour or fraction thereof, and $150 per hour for each additional hour
or fraction thereof.
   (B)   Should the property owner or occupant fail to pay the charges when
billed by the village, the Village Clerk shall cause a lien to be recorded on
the owner’s property. The lien shall remain in force until all costs are paid
in full, including any and all legal costs incurred in filing and recording the
liens, and any release thereof. Notice of the lien claim shall be mailed to the
owner of the premises if his or her address is known. The failure of the
Village Clerk to record the lien claim or to mail the notice or the failure of
the owner to receive the notice, shall not affect the right to foreclose the
lien for the charges as provided in division (C).
   (C)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid weed cutting charges shall be
sold for nonpayment of the same and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied
to pay the charges after deducting costs as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. The foreclosures shall be in equity in the name of the
village. The Village Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute
the proceedings in the name of the village, in any court having jurisdiction
over the matter, against any property for which the bill has remained unpaid 60
days after it has been rendered.
(Ord. 1990-6, passed 6-26-1990; Am. Ord. 2007-19, passed 8-28-2007)
CAMPING
§ 90.45 PUBLIC CAMPING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Public camping as a nuisance. Public camping, as the term is defined
herein, is hereby declared to be a nuisance within the village for the reasons
identified in Ordinance 2024-10.
   (B)   Regulation of public camping necessary to promote public health. In an
effort to address the public health concerns identified above, the Mayor and
Board of Commissioners of the village hereby declare it necessary or expedient
for the promotion of health or the suppression of diseases, to regulate public
camping, as that term is defined herein, within the village's corporate limits.
   (C)   Public camping not intended use of public property. Except for those
parcels of property specifically designated by the village in any subsequent
ordinance, the village hereby declares that none of its property is permitted
nor intended to be used for public camping, as the term is defined herein.
   (D)   Definitions. The following definitions apply to this section:
      BEDDING. A sleeping bag, or any other material, used for bedding
purposes.
      CAMPSITE. Any physical space that is not within an established structure,
where bedding or any stove or fire is placed, established or maintained for the
purpose of maintaining a temporary place to live, whether or not such place
incorporates the use of any tent, lean-to, shack or any other structure, or any
vehicle or part thereof.
      EXEMPT PERSONAL PROPERTY. Items which would otherwise constitute personal
property under the terms of this section, but which (i) has no apparent utility
or monetary value; (ii) personal property which is unsanitary to store or
otherwise maintain; (iii) any weapon possessed illegally; (iv) drug
paraphernalia; (v) items appearing to be stolen or otherwise appearing to be
evidence of a crime; (vi) items which the person cannot demonstrate the
requisite lawful authority to possess; and (vii) any items of food which can
reasonably be expected to spoil or otherwise perish within the next 30 days.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Any item reasonably recognizable as belonging to a
person and having apparent utility or monetary value, except for exempt
personal property.
      PUBLIC CAMPING. To cause or participate in the establishment of, or the
act of remaining in or at, a campsite.
   (E)   Public camping prohibited.
      (1)   No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in public camping, on a
public sidewalk, street, alley, lane, other public right-of-way, park, bench,
or any other publicly-owned property, nor on or under any bridge or viaduct, at
any time.
      (2)   No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in public camping, in any
pedestrian or vehicular entrance to public or private property abutting a
public right-of-way.
      (3)   No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in public camping, on any
real property owned or otherwise maintained by the village.
      (4)   No person may park a vehicle overnight within the village for the
purpose of sleeping or otherwise engaging in public camping in said vehicle.
      (5)   For the purposes of this section, the act of parking or leaving a
vehicle parked for two consecutive hours, and/or remaining within a public
vehicle on any property under the jurisdiction of the village for the purpose
of public camping, for two consecutive hours without permission from the
Village Mayor and the Board of Commissioners, between the hours of midnight and
6:00 a.m., shall be considered a violation of this section.
   (F)   Exceptions to prohibition. Notwithstanding the foregoing, it shall not
be a violation to engage in public camping when done (i) in a manner
specifically authorized by this code; (ii) after a formal declaration of the
village in emergency circumstances; or (iii) upon resolution of the Village
Mayor and the Board of Commissioners, the same may exempt a special event from
the prohibitions of this section, if the Village Mayor and the Board of
Commissioners finds such exemption to be in the public interest and consistent
with the goals and objectives of the Village Mayor and the Board of
Commissioners, and with such conditions imposed as the Village Mayor and the
Board of Commissioners deems necessary. Any conditions imposed will include a
condition requiring that the applicant provide evidence of adequate insurance
coverage and agree to indemnify the village for any liability, damage or
expense incurred by the Village as a result of the activities of the applicant.
Any findings by the Village Mayor and the Board of Commissioners shall specify
the exact dates and location covered by the exemption.
   (G)   Removal of campsite. Removal of a campsite in violation of this
section may occur under the following circumstances:
      (1)   Prior to removing a campsite, the village shall post a notice, 24
hours in advance of the removal, unless immediate removal of the campsite is
deemed to be necessary for one of the reasons in divisions (G)(1)(a) through
(G)(1)(d), below. If such immediate removal is undertaken, the basis for
causing the immediate removal of such campsite should be adequately documented
by the appropriate person(s).
         (a)   Immediate removal of the campsite is necessary to maintain
access to a property;
         (b)   Immediate removal of the campsite is necessary to maintain the
sanitary condition of a property;
         (c)   Immediate removal of the campsite is necessary because the
campsite is an obstruction to any public right-of-way; or
         (d)   Immediate removal of the campsite is necessary because the
campsite poses a risk to the health and safety of the village and its
residents.
      (2)   Upon any action pursuant to division (G)(1), above, the person
causing such action to be taken shall inform an appropriate agency delivering
social services to homeless individuals in the village or in the county, of the
location of the campsite and the persons found to be in violation of this
section, so said agency may determine whether or not it would be appropriate to
offer its services to those persons.
      (3)   If a 24-hour notice has been posted, and the 24-hour notice period
has passed, then the campsite, as well as all personal property thereon, shall
be removed by the appropriate person(s) acting on behalf of the village.
      (4)   No portion of this section shall be construed to prohibit any
person found to be engaging in public camping from removing their personal
property from the campsite; however, such personal property that constitutes
exempt personal property and which a reasonably prudent law enforcement
officer, exercising the applicable constitutional standard, would conclude that
said exempt personal property constitutes items appearing to be stolen or
otherwise appearing to be evidence of a crime, and/or items which the person
cannot demonstrate the requisite lawful authority to possess, may be retained
and stored as evidence.
   (H)   Disposition and release of personal property.
      (1)   All personal property removed from any campsite which is not exempt
personal property shall be stored by the appropriate law enforcement agency of
the village, for a minimum of 30 days, during which time it shall be reasonably
available for and released to an individual confirming ownership.
      (2)   All exempt personal property may be disposed of or retained as
evidence by the appropriate law enforcement agency of the village.
   (I)   Penalty; mitigation.
      (1)   The penalty for any person's first violation of this section within
a rolling 24- month period shall be $75.
      (2)   The penalty for any person's second violation of this section
within a rolling 24- month period shall be $150.
      (3)   The penalty for any person's third violation of this section within
a rolling 24- month period shall be $350.
      (4)   The penalty for any person's fourth violation of this section
within a rolling 24- month period shall be $500.
      (5)   The penalty for any person's fifth violation of this section within
a rolling 24- month period shall be $750.
      (6)   The penalty for any person's sixth or subsequent violation of this
section within a rolling 24-month period may be a monetary penalty of $750 or
incarceration for a period not exceeding the maximum time allowed pursuant to §
1-2-9 of the Illinois Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-9).
      (7)   As a substitute for any monetary penalty assessed pursuant to
divisions (I)(1) through (I)(6), and if consented to by the village, the
penalty assessed to any person found in violation of this section may be that
said person must engage in public service by cleaning the rights-of-way and
other public facilities of the village for an amount of time that, if the
person found to have violated this section was being paid the minimum wage
under Illinois law, the amount paid for that person's labors would have been
equal to the monetary penalty assessed under this section.
      (8)   The village is hereby empowered to exercise all powers afforded to
it, at law or in equity, to collect any fines assessed against a person
pursuant to this section, including but not limited to seeking incarceration of
said person for a period of time that conforms with § 1-2-9 of the Illinois
Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-9).
      (9)   In the imposition of any penalty pursuant to this section, the
penalty shall be mitigated by whether or not the person immediately removed all
personal property and litter, including but not limited to bottles, cans, and
garbage, from the campsite after the person was informed that the person was in
violation of this section.
      (10)   A separate offense of this section shall be deemed committed on
each day on which a violation occurs or continues.
      (11)   In addition to any other remedy provided by law or this section,
any person found in violation of this section may be immediately removed from
the premises where the campsite is located.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating §
90.03 or any of the provisions therewith shall be fined in a sum not less than
$5 nor more than $50 for each offense, and each day or fraction of a day that §
90.03 is violated shall constitute and be considered separate and distinct
offenses.
      (2)   Provided, that the offender shall in every case under §
90.03 be notified by some officer of the village to remove or abate the
nuisance and shall be allowed a reasonable time, to be fixed by the officer in
the notice, according to the nature of the nuisance, to so remove and abate the
same and upon so doing within the time fixed by the officer, the offender shall
not be subject to the fine aforesaid, unless the commission of the nuisance was
willful or resulted in the actual damage to the person or property of some
person or corporation.
(Ord. 12, passed 10-2-1950; Am. Ord. 2009-04, passed 3-10-2009)
   (B)   Any person who shall be convicted of violating §§
90.15 through
90.21 shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $750 for each offense.
   (C)   Any person who violates the provisions of §§
90.30 through
90.32 shall be fined in an amount not less than $50 nor more than $750 for each
such violation, with each day on which any violation exists constituting a
separate and independent violation.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1983; Am. Ord. 2007-19, passed 8-28-2007; Am. Ord. 2009-04,
passed 3-10-2009)
CHAPTER 91: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Open storage of certain vehicles and refuse prohibited
   
91.03   Impoundment of vehicles
   
91.04   Expense of removal and impounding
   
91.05   Effective date
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any motor vehicle or trailer as defined herein, which for a period
of 7 successive days is in a state of disrepair such that it cannot be used in
a manner substantially as designed.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle shall be considered inoperable if it cannot move
under its own power without repairs.
      (3)   Also, any vehicle which would have to be registered pursuant to
Illinois statute if used on a public highway shall be considered inoperable if
it has missing or defective equipment required for the vehicle by Illinois
statutes.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any machine propelled by power other than human power
designed to travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or
slides, and transport persons or property, or pull machinery, and shall
include, but not be limited to any vehicle which would have to be registered
pursuant to Illinois statute if used upon a public highway, any construction
implement such as a backhoe, bulldozer, fork truck, scraper or the like, any
farm implement, such as a tractor, combine, or the like.
   OPEN PRIVATE LAND. Any area of private property not enclosed by a garage,
barn, carport, or similar fully enclosed structure.
   PERSON. Any natural person, partnership, corporation, or any other entity
empowered to own property in this state.
   TRAILER. Any vehicle without motive power in operation, designed for
carrying persons or property and designed to be drawn by a motor vehicle.
   UNREGISTERED VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle or trailer designed for the purpose
of conveying persons or property on public highways which does not display
current valid registration tags.
(Ord. 2002-04A, passed - -2002)
§ 91.02 OPEN STORAGE OF CERTAIN VEHICLES AND REFUSE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No inoperable vehicle, or unregistered vehicle shall be stored on open
private land, or on any public street or alley, within the corporate limits of
the Village of Diamond. Further, no person shall for a period of 7 successive
days store or allow to be stored on any open private land, or public street or
alley, within the corporate limits of the Village of Diamond any other
accumulation of trash or refuse, including, but not limited to, household
appliances or furnishings, such as stoves, washers, dryers, refrigerators,
freezers, dishwashers, microwave ovens, couches, chairs, tables, mattresses,
bed frames, chests, dressers, or similar appliances or furnishings, or any
household garbage or trash.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any junk yard, motor vehicle repair
facility, or landfill operating with all required licenses and in conformance
with all applicable zoning regulations for the storage.
(Ord. 2002-04A, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.03 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The Grundy County Sheriff, his or her deputies, or the other person
designated by the Sheriff, is authorized to enter onto public or private lands
and to remove therefrom any motor vehicle or trailer stored in a manner which
is in violation of this chapter. The Grundy County Sheriff, his or her
deputies, or the other person designated by the Sheriff or the other person
designated by the village, is authorized to enter onto public or private lands
and to remove therefrom any trash, refuse, appliance, or furniture as described
herein.
   (B)   Any vehicle or trailer so removed shall be impounded until lawfully
claimed or disposed of as provided for by law, and the provisions of this
chapter, provided, however, that no vehicle shall be so removed and impounded
unless notice as required herein is first provided 10 days prior to removing
the vehicle, provided, however, that for notices which are mailed the notice
will be deemed given on the date the notice is actually postmarked.
   (C)   The notice required in division (B) above shall be given by any duly
designated representative of the village as follows:
      (1)   Affixing a notice of removal of the vehicle, or in the case of
other property by affixing notice to the property, or if the notice cannot
reasonably be attached thereto by posting notice on the premises;
      (2)   Sending notice of removal via U.S. mail to the owner of the
vehicle, or other property, where the identity and location of the person can
be reasonably ascertained; and
      (3)   Where the vehicle or other property is located on private property
by sending notice of removal to the owner thereof as shown by the records of
the assessor of the county in which the property is located.
   (D)   Owners may request a pre-removal hearing:
      (1)   Prior to removing any property under this chapter the owner shall
be given the right to a pre-removal hearing to determine whether probable cause
exists to find the property is being stored in violation of this chapter. The
request shall be in writing to the Village Clerk, and must be received by the
Clerk prior to the expiration of the 10-day notice period. If such a request is
received the property shall not be removed until the hearing is actually held
and a determination of probable cause made;
      (2)   Where no request for hearing is received prior to the expiration of
the 10-day notice period this right shall be deemed waived;
      (3)   Pre-removal probable cause hearings shall be held at the Village
Hall at a reasonable time prior to removal of the property. The hearing officer
shall be the Village Building Inspector and the person is hereby appointed as
administrative hearing officer for that purpose, and the hearing officer shall
hear relevant evidence from the property owner, and may also consider evidence
from other persons with relevant information, or in the form of a written
report or photographs provided by a city employee or the Sheriff; and
      (4)   Where the hearing officer determines that no probable cause exists
to find a violation of this chapter the property shall not be removed. Where
the hearing officer determines that probable cause does exist to find a
violation of this chapter the property may be removed after the expiration of
the notice period.
   (E)   The Village Building Inspector, or Grundy County Sheriff, may enter
upon private property at any reasonable hour for the purpose of inspecting
property to determine if a violation of this chapter exists where reasonable
suspicion exists to believe the violation will be found thereon, or for the
purpose of posting notices as required by this chapter
(Ord. 2002-04A, passed - -2002)
§ 91.04 EXPENSE OF REMOVAL AND IMPOUNDING.
   The owner of any property removed under this chapter shall be charged a fee
in a sum sufficient to cover the costs of removal of the property.
(Ord. 2002-04A, passed - -2002)
§ 91.05 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
and approval as provided by law and shall be published in pamphlet form.
(Ord. 2002-04A, passed - -2002)
CHAPTER 92: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Encroachment on public rights-of-way
   
92.02   Complete Streets Policy adopted
Building Numbers
   
92.15   Duty to comply
   
92.16   Assignment
   
92.17   Placement and size of numbers
   
92.18   Removing or defacing
   
92.19   Filing
   
92.20   Effective date
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 ENCROACHMENT ON PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CONSTRUCTION EASEMENT AREA. Area lying between the project right-of-way
limits and the platted street limits within which the village, by concurrence
in the establishment of the project right-of-way lines, will permit the state
to enter to perform all necessary construction operations.
      ENCROACHMENT. Any building, fence, sign, or any other structure or object
of any kind (with the exception of utilities and public road signs) which is
placed, located, or maintained in, on, under, or over any portion of the
project right-of-way or the roadway right-of-way where no project right-of-way
line has been established.
      PERMISSIBLE ENCROACHMENT.  
         (a)   Any existing awning, marquee, advertising sign, or similar
overhanging structure supported from a building immediately adjacent to the
limits of the platted street where there is a sidewalk extending to the
building lane and which does not impair the free and safe flow of pedestrian
traffic and traffic on the highway.
         (b)   The permissive retention of overhanging signs is not to be
construed as being applicable to those signs supported from poles constructed
outside the project right-of-way line and not confined by adjacent buildings.
      PROJECT RIGHT-OF-WAY. Those areas within the project right-of-way lines
established jointly by the village, state, and the Federal Highway
Administration which will be free of encroachments except as hereinafter
defined.
      ROADWAY RIGHT-OF-WAY. Those areas existing or acquired by dedication or
by fee simple for highway purposes; also, the areas acquired by temporary
easement during the time the easement is in effect.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to erect or
cause to be erected, to retain or cause to be retained, any encroachment,
within the limits of the project right-of-way or roadway right-of-way where no
project right-of-way lines have been established.
   (C)   This section is intended to and shall be in addition to all other
ordinances, rules, and regulations concerning encroachments and shall not be
construed as repealing or rescinding any other ordinance or part of any
ordinance unless in direct conflict therewith.
   (D)   This section shall be published 1 time within 10 days after its
passage in a newspaper having a general circulation in the Village of Diamond,
Illinois, and shall be in full force and effect after its passage, publication,
and approval as provided by law.
(Ord. 1993-20, passed 12-14-1993) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 COMPLETE STREETS POLICY ADOPTED.
   The village adopts by reference the Complete Streets Policy attached as
Exhibit A to Res. 2019-04. Copies of the Policy are available for public
inspection in the office of the Village Clerk during normal business hours.
(Res. 2019-04, passed 2-12-2019)
BUILDING NUMBERS
§ 92.15 DUTY TO COMPLY.
   It is hereby made the duty of the owner, agent, or person in possession of
any building in the city to number it in the manner provided by this
subchapter.
(Ord. 1990-004, passed 3-27-1990) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.16 ASSIGNMENT.
   The Village Clerk or Village Collector shall assign or cause to be assigned
to each frontage its proper number, which shall be the number assigned to the
frontage nearest to the entrance of a building and no number shall be used to
designate any building unless it has been assigned.
(Ord. 1990-004, passed 3-27-1990) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 PLACEMENT AND SIZE OF NUMBERS.
   (A)   Numbers assigned shall be placed on the fronts of buildings or on
porches, in a prominent position, conspicuous when viewed from the property
line in front of a building.
   (B)   Each of the figures or letters of each number assigned to any
residence shall be no less than 3 inches high.
(Ord. 1990-004, passed 3-27-1990) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18 REMOVING OR DEFACING.
   No person shall willfully deface or remove any number required by this
subchapter which has been placed upon any building.
(Ord. 1990-004, passed 3-27-1990) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.19 FILING.
   A copy of this subchapter, properly certified by the Village Clerk, shall be
filed in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of Grundy and Will Counties,
Illinois, and shall be deemed notice to all owners of real estate of their
liability to number their buildings.
(Ord. 1990-004, passed 3-27-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Administration, see Title III
§ 92.20 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect upon its passage,
approval, and publication and shall be published in pamphlet form as provided
by law.
(Ord. 1990-004, passed 3-27-1990)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating §
92.01 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $750 for each offense, and
a separate offense shall be deemed committed for each and every day during
which a violation continues or exists.
(Ord. 1993-20, passed 12-14-1993)
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating the terms of §§
92.15 et seq. is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than
$750 for each offense and if they violate or fail to comply with the terms and
provisions of §§
92.15 et seq., each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense. In
the event the fines are not paid within 60 days after the rendition of a bill,
they shall be deemed and are hereby declared to be delinquent, and thereafter
the delinquencies shall constitute liens upon the real estate for which the
fines, and the Village Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to file sworn
statements showing the delinquencies in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of
Grundy and Will Counties, Illinois, and the filing of the statements shall be
deemed notice for the payment of the fines.
(Ord. 1990-004, passed 3-27-1990)
CHAPTER 93: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
93.01   Declaration of policy
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Prohibited acts
   
93.04   Effective date
   
93.05   Compliance with the requirements of federal and state programs of
assistance
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Land Usage, see Title XV
§ 93.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   In furthering the policy of the State of Illinois as expressed in its
Constitution and other laws; in order that the safety and general welfare,
peace, and health of all the inhabitants of the village may be ensured; it is
hereby declared the policy of the Village of Diamond, Illinois, to assure equal
opportunity to all resident, regardless of race, color, religion, national
origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or physical or mental handicap to live in
decent, sanitary, healthful, standard living quarters.
   (B)   It is the policy of the Village of Diamond that no owner, lessee, sub-
lessee, assignee, managing agent, or other person, firm, or corporation having
the right to sell, rent, lease (or otherwise control), any housing
accommodation and/or real property with the village, or any agent of these
shall refuse to sell, rent, lease, or otherwise deny to or withhold form any
person or group of persons the housing accommodations and/or real property
because of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or
physical or mental handicap of the person or persons or discriminate against
any person or persons because of race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, or physical or mental handicap in the conditions, terms,
privileges of the sale, rental or lease of any housing accommodation and/or
real property or in the furnishing of facilities and/or services in connection
therewith.
   (C)   Relocation shall be carried out in a manner that will promote maximum
choice within the community’s total housing supply; lessen racial, ethnic, and
economic concentrations; and facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive
patterns of occupancy and use of public and private facilities.
(Ord. 1991-21, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Freedom from unlawful discrimination, see ILCS Ch. 775, Act 5, § 1-102
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL, STANDARD LIVING QUARTERS. Housing which is in
sound, clean, and weather-tight condition in conformance with applicable local,
state, and national codes.
   DISCRIMINATE or DISCRIMINATION. Any difference expressed in any way toward a
person or persons in the terms of the sale, exchange, lease, rental or
financing for, housing accommodation and/or real property in regard to the
sale, exchange, rental, lease or finance because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or physical or mental handicap of the
person.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Any person, institution, or business entity of any
kind which loans money to persons and receives as security for the loans a
secured interest of any kind in the real property of the borrower.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION. Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is
used or occupied, maintained, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied as a
home, residence, or sleeping place of 1 or more human beings, or any real
estate so used, designed, or intended for the use.
   OWNER. Any person/persons who hold legal or equitable title to, or owns any
beneficial interest in any real property or who hold legal or equitable title
to shares of, or hold any beneficial interest in any real estate cooperative
which owns any real property and/or housing accommodations.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER. Any person, partnership, association, corporation, and/
or agent thereof who for a fee or other valuable consideration offers, sells,
purchases, exchanges, or rents, or negotiates for the sale, purchase, exchange,
or rental of a housing accommodation and/or real property of another, or
collects rental for the use of a housing accommodation and/or real property of
another.
   REAL PROPERTY. Any real estate, vacant land, building, structure, or housing
accommodations within the corporate limits of the Village of Diamond, Illinois.
(Ord. 1991-21, passed - -)
§ 93.03 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sub-lessee,
real estate broker or salesperson, financial institution or employee of the
financial institution, advertiser, or agent of any or all of the foregoing, to
discriminate against any person or persons because of their race, color,
religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or physical or mental
handicap with regard to the sale, exchange or rental, or any dealing concerning
any housing accommodation and/or real property.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing, it shall also be unlawful for any real
estate broker or employee thereof, owner or other person, or financial
institution dealing with housing or real property in the Village of Diamond,
Illinois:
      (1)   To discriminate against any person in the availability of or the
price, terms, conditions, or privileges of any kind relating to the sale,
rental, lease, or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in
the village or in furnishing of any facilities or services in connection
therewith;
      (2)   To publish or circulate, or cause to be published or circulated,
any notice, statement, or advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to use any
form of application, for the purchase, lease, rental, or financing of real
property, or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective
purchase, rental, or lease of the real estate, which expresses directly or
indirectly any discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, or physical or mental handicap of any person;
      (3)   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing
loans, accepting mortgages, or otherwise obtaining or making available funds
for the purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair, or
maintenance of any housing accommodation and/or real property;
      (4)   To solicit for sale, lease, or listing for the sale or lease, of
any housing accommodation and/or real property on the ground of loss of value
because of the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, or physical or mental handicap;
      (5)   To distribute or cause to be distributed, written material or
statements designed to induce any owner or any housing accommodation and/or
real property to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective change in the race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed, or physical or mental handicap of persons in the neighborhood;
      (6)   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or
the anticipated listing for sale or the sale of any housing accommodation and/
or real property for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale
or listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or
physical or mental handicap in the area will or may result in the lowering of
property values in the block, neighborhood or area in which the property is
located;
      (7)   For an owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent, or
otherwise deal with the owner’s housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry, sex, creed, physical or mental handicap; and/or
      (8)   For an owner to refuse to sell, rent, or otherwise deal with any
housing accommodation and/or real property because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or physical or mental handicap of the
proposed buyer or tenant.
(Ord. 1991-21, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be known as Ordinance No. 1991-21 of the Village of
Diamond, Illinois, and shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage, approval, recording, and publication in pamphlet form in accordance
with law.
(Ord. 1991-21, passed - -)
§ 93.05 COMPLIANCE WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF FEDERAL AND STATE PROGRAMS OF
ASSISTANCE.
   (A)    Recitals.
      (1)   Whereas, the village is authorized under ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-
11.1-1 et seq. to adopt fair housing regulations; and
      (2)   Whereas, the corporate authorities find that establishing a fair
housing policy enhances the health, morals, safety and welfare of the residents
of the village; and
      (3)   Whereas, the village is a grantee municipality under and a
participant in the Community Development Block Grant (“CDBG”) Disaster Recovery
“IKE” Public Infrastructure Program (“Illinois Disaster Recovery Public
Infrastructure Program”), administered by the Illinois Department of Commerce
and Economic Opportunity; and
      (4)   Whereas, the grant of federal monies distributed by the State of
Illinois requires the village and other participating communities to establish
certain programs and policies consistent with federal and state laws,
regulations and grantee requirements, and the village has assured Illinois
Disaster Recovery Public Infrastructure Program administrators that it will
comply with all program requirements; and
      (5)   Whereas, the village desires to continue to be an eligible Illinois
Disaster Recovery Public Infrastructure Program grantee municipality by
amending its fair housing regulations to ensure that the village affirmatively
furthers fair housing consistent with the requirements of Executive Order 11063
on equal opportunity in housing and nondiscrimination in the sale or rental of
housing built with federal assistance, and with Title VIII of the Civil Rights
Act of 1968, as amended, which prohibits discrimination in the provision of
housing because of race, color, creed, religion, sex, national origin,
disability or familial status.
   (B)   Enactment.
      (1)   It is declared to be the public policy of the village and the
purpose of this section, in the exercise of its power to regulate for the
protection of the public health, safety, morals and welfare, and to maintain
and promote commerce and good government in the village and to acknowledge the
value of diversity within the village, to assure fair housing and freedom from
the effects of residential segregation by race, color, creed, sex, age,
religion, disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, marital
status, parental status, military discharge status, source of income, gender
identity or housing status, to promote population diversity in a free and open
community, to secure for all persons in the village equal opportunities to
view, purchase, lease, rent or otherwise occupy real estate without
discrimination, and to secure for its citizens the economic, social and
professional benefits of living in an integrated society.
      (2)   To that end, the village hereby advises the public that it will
administer its assisted programs and activities relating to housing and
community development in a manner to affirmatively further fair housing in the
sale or rental of housing, the financing of housing, and the provision of
brokerage services.
      (3)   The village shall assist individuals who believe they have been
subject to discrimination in housing through the resources of the Illinois
Department of Human Rights or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development.
      (4)   The village has designated the Village Board as the contact to
coordinate efforts to comply with this policy. Inquiries should be directed,
during regular business hours of the village, to:
         Village Clerk
         Village of Diamond
         1750 East Division Street
         Diamond, IL 60416
         815-634-8149
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 1-24-2012)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be punished by a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $750. Each day a
violation continues shall constitute a separate violation. This section shall
in no way abrogate or impair the right of the Village of Diamond, Illinois, to
specifically enforce, by any legal means, any of the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1991-21, passed - -)
CHAPTER 94: PARK RULES AND REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Construction, scope, and severability
General Rules
   
94.20   Violation of local, state, or federal laws
   
94.21   Park
   
94.22   Restricted areas
   
94.23   Interference with other users
   
94.24   Alcoholic beverages
   
94.25   Weapons, fireworks, explosives, rockets
   
94.26   Smoking
   
94.27   Public indecency
   
94.28   Disorderly conduct
   
94.29   Gambling
   
94.30   Controlled substances
   
94.31   Battery
   
94.32   Posting printed or written material on public places and objects
   
94.33   Sleeping on village park property
   
94.34   Dumping and littering
Permits
   
94.45   Display upon request
   
94.46   Revocation of privileges
   
94.47   Activities requiring a permit
   
94.48   Application for permits
   
94.49   Processing of application
   
94.50   Permit violations; fines; notice
Enforcement
   
94.60   Ordinance enforcement
   
94.61   Penalties not exclusive
   
94.62   Police force
   
94.63   Parental responsibility
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words, terms, phrases and
their derivatives shall have the meanings set forth in this section. When not
inconsistent with the context, the present tense shall include the future
tense; the plural shall include the singular number and the singular number
shall include the plural number. Additionally, this chapter shall be called and
may be cited as the "Park Rules and Regulations Ordinance of the Village of
Diamond, Illinois," and is referred to herein as "this chapter."
   BOARD. The Village Board of the Village of Diamond, Illinois.
   MAYOR. The Village Mayor of the Village of Diamond.
   PERMIT. Written authorization issued by, or under the authority of, the
village to a person or persons to engage in a particular act or acts on village
park property, subject to the terms and conditions specified in the permit.
   PERSON. Any natural person and every firm, partnership, limited liability
company, association, corporation or entity of any kind or any employee, agent,
or officer thereof, except the village and any authorized officer, employee
(full or part-time, regular or temporary) or agent of the village when acting
within the scope of his authority. When PERSON is used in conjunction with a
restriction on age, it means a natural person.
   PUBLIC ASSEMBLY. Any meeting, demonstration, picket line, or congregation of
persons on the public right-of-way or on village park property for a common
purpose. This does not include picnics, athletic or sporting events.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Diamond, Illinois.
   VILLAGE PARK PROPERTY or VILLAGE PARK. Any property within the boundaries of
Diamond designated as a municipal park by the Village Board of the Village of
Diamond, Illinois.
   VILLAGE PROPERTY. All the property, real and personal, of every kind and
description owned, leased or licensed by, or otherwise in possession or under
the control of the village.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-26-2015)
§ 94.02 CONSTRUCTION, SCOPE, AND SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   Construction. In the interpretation of this chapter, its provisions
shall be construed as listed below:
      (1)   Where context permits, words in the masculine gender shall include
the feminine and neuter genders. Words in the singular number shall include the
plural number.
      (2)   The word SHALL is always mandatory.
      (3)   No provision hereof shall make unlawful any act necessarily
performed by an officer, employee or agent of the village, when acting within
the scope of his authority or in his line of duty or work as such or any other
person summoned by any such person to assist him in such endeavor.
      (4)   This chapter is in addition to and supplemental to all applicable
local, state and federal laws and ordinances including, and without limitation,
to the Illinois Municipal Code, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-1-1 et seq. The
meaning of any term, phrase or word not otherwise defined in this chapter shall
be construed and interpreted to mean the same as said term, phrase or word as
otherwise defined, construed or interpreted in such applicable local, state,
and/or federal law or ordinance.
      (5)   The descriptive headings of the various sections or parts of this
chapter are for convenience only and shall not affect the meaning,
construction, or interpretation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
      (6)   An attempt to commit an act or engage in an activity that is
prohibited herein, shall be treated in the same manner as the commission of
such act and subject to the same penalties, unless otherwise required by local,
state, or federal law.
   (B)   Scope. This chapter shall apply to and be enforceable within and upon
all village park property and shall regulate the use thereof by all persons.
   (C)   Severability. If any provision of this chapter or application thereof
to any person or circumstance is held to be invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter and the application of such
provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby. The
village reserves the power to amend or repeal this chapter at any time, and all
rights, privileges and immunities conferred by this chapter, or by acts done
pursuant hereto, shall exist subject to such power.
   (D)   Repeal. All ordinances establishing park rules and regulations are
hereby repealed.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-26-2015)
GENERAL RULES
§ 94.20 VIOLATION OF LOCAL, STATE, OR FEDERAL LAWS.
   No person shall commit a violation of local, state, or federal laws or
regulations while on village park property.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-26-2015)
§ 94.21 PARK.
   (A)   Hours of operation. All village parks shall open at dawn. All village
parks shall close at dusk. The Mayor is authorized to make extensions to these
hours as necessary to the daily operations of the village parks.
   (B)   Special closings. The Mayor may close village park property or any
parts thereof to the public at any time and for any interval of time, entirely
or merely for certain uses, as deemed reasonably necessary and in the best
interest of the village.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-26-2015)
§ 94.22 RESTRICTED AREAS.
   (A)   Entering prohibited areas. No person shall enter upon any portion of
the village park property where persons are prohibited from going by direction
of the Board or Mayor, as indicated by sign or notice.
   (B)   Entering areas under construction or repair. No person, except as is
authorized by the village, shall enter upon any part of the village park
property that is under construction or closed for the purpose of repair or
maintenance.
   (C)   Entering areas closed to public or scheduled for specific group or
activity. No person shall enter any area of village park property when it is
closed to the public. No person shall enter any area in any village park which
is reserved or scheduled for a specific group or activity, unless such person
is invited by the person responsible for such activity.
   (D)   Playgrounds designated for persons under 12 years of age. No person
over the age of 12 years or older shall use playground equipment designed for
persons under the age of 12 years.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-26-2015)
§ 94.23 INTERFERENCE WITH OTHER USERS.
   No person shall walk, act, or behave on any portion of village park property
designated for a particular game, sport, event, activity, or amusement in such
a way as to interfere with the use of such portion by other persons who are
properly using the same portion for the particular sport, event, activity, game
or amusement for which it has been designated, nor shall any person
unreasonably disturb or interfere with any person occupying any area or
participating in any activity under the authority of a permit. No person shall
limit or block access to village park property. No person shall engage in any
activity on village park property in a manner intended or likely to endanger,
injure, or damage persons or property in any way.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-26-2015)
§ 94.24 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   No alcoholic beverages shall be sold, possessed, given away, delivered, or
consumed on village park property, except pursuant to a permit or as otherwise
authorized by the Mayor and Board.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-26-2015)
§ 94.25 WEAPONS, FIREWORKS, EXPLOSIVES, ROCKETS.
   No person shall at any time bring onto, carry, have in his actual or
constructive possession, or on or about his person, or use, fire, set off,
cause to explode, discharge, burn, or throw onto village park, any knife,
firearm, pistol, revolver, rifle, air gun, pellet gun, bow and arrow,
slingshot, blackjack, billy club, any weapon capable of discharging a
projectile by air, gas, or explosive substance, rocket, firecracker or other
firework, missile, liquid or gaseous substance or any other dangerous weapon.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-26-2015)
§ 94.26 SMOKING.
   Smoking or any use of any tobacco product is prohibited in all facilities
owned, administered, leased, licensed by, or otherwise in the possession or
control of the village. Smoking is prohibited in all areas on village park
property, and in or at all other locations where signs are posted prohibiting
smoking. Smoking in any area not prohibited by this section shall, in all
respects, comply with state law.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-26-2015)
§ 94.27 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   No person on village park property shall commit an act of public indecency
as defined in the Illinois Criminal Code of 1961.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-26-2015)
§ 94.28 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No person on village park property shall commit disorderly conduct as
defined in the Illinois Criminal Code of 1961.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-26-2015)
§ 94.29 GAMBLING.
   No person on village park property shall commit gambling as defined in the
Illinois Criminal Code of 1961.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-26-2015)
§ 94.30 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   No person on village park property shall commit a violation of the Illinois
Controlled Substance Act.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-26-2015)
§ 94.31 BATTERY.
   No person on village park property shall commit a battery against another
person, as defined in the Illinois Criminal Code of 1961.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-26-2015)
§ 94.32 POSTING PRINTED OR WRITTEN MATERIAL ON PUBLIC PLACES AND OBJECTS.
   (A)   No person shall paint, write on, mark, deface, post, or otherwise
affix, any printed or written words, symbols, materials or other marks upon
village park property, or any object located on village park property, unless a
permit has first been obtained from the Board or Mayor.
   (B)   No person may erect or place any sign on village park property unless
a permit has first been obtained from the village. This prohibition shall
apply, without limitation, to signs promoting or opposing any candidate for
public office or any public question, and signs advertising real or personal
property for sale or employment opportunities.
   (C)   The village may remove any printed or written word, symbol, material,
sign or other mark found posted or otherwise affixed upon any village park
property or any object located on village park property in violation of the
provisions of this section. Any item removed by the village will be considered
abandoned property and will be disposed of immediately by the village. The
person responsible for any such defacing, writing or posting shall be liable
for the cost incurred in the removal thereof, in addition to and including any
fines levied for the offense.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-26-2015)
§ 94.33 SLEEPING ON VILLAGE PARK PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall sleep on benches, sidewalks, parking lots, tables,
playgrounds or playground equipment on village park property, in a manner which
unreasonably obstructs, interferes with or impedes the movement of other
persons or their access to or use of any such location, equipment or facility.
   (B)   No person shall remain overnight on village park property unless a
permit has first been obtained from the village.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-26-2015)
§ 94.34 DUMPING AND LITTERING.
   (A)   No person shall litter, cast, throw, drop, place, lay or otherwise
deposit, leave or scatter any placard, handbill, pamphlet, circular, book,
notice or paper of any kind, or place, pile or otherwise dump, leave or deposit
in any manner any kind of dirt, rubbish, refuse, ashes, garbage, waste
material, snow, ice, or other substance or material of any kind, whether
liquid, solid or gas, on, over or in any village park property except as
specifically permitted by the village. Paper, glass, cans, garbage and other
refuse resulting from picnics or other lawful use of village park property
shall be deposited in receptacles provided by the village for that purpose.
Where receptacles are not so provided, are missing, or are full to capacity,
all such garbage, refuse or other material shall be carried away from the
village property by the person or persons responsible for the presence of such
material and properly disposed of elsewhere.
   (B)   Any person violating this section may be assessed the cost to the
village of removing any such improperly deposited substance or material and
such charge shall be in addition to and not in lieu of any other penalties
provided for violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-26-2015)
PERMITS
§ 94.45 DISPLAY UPON REQUEST.
   No person shall fail to produce or display any permit or pass required in
order to engage in any activity on village park property that requires said
permit, upon request of any authorized person who shall desire to inspect the
same for the purpose of enforcing compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-26-2015)
§ 94.46 REVOCATION OF PRIVILEGES.
   Any person violating or disobeying any section or part thereof of this
chapter, or any other ordinance, rule or regulation of the village, may be
forthwith evicted from village park property, and may have admission rights to
village park property terminated, revoked, forfeited or suspended for any
reasonable period of time including, but not limited to, the remainder of the
relevant program or playing season (days, weeks, months or years) as determined
by the Mayor.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-26-2015)
§ 94.47 ACTIVITIES REQUIRING A PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall, without a permit:
      (1)   Conduct a public assembly or parade;
      (2)   Circulate or distribute any leaflets, handbills, notices,
pamphlets, books, documents or papers of any kind in any outdoor facility or
parking lot;
      (3)   Conduct any exhibit, music or dramatic performance, fair, circus,
concert, play, radio, or television broadcast, other than a news transmission;
      (4)   Exhibit or display any motion picture, television program or
similar event;
      (5)   Create or emit any amplified sound, except from a radio, recorder
or other device possessed and used by an individual for his own enjoyment and
operated in such a manner so as not to interfere with the use and enjoyment by
any other person;
      (6)   Place, station, or erect any building, stand, bandstand, stage,
tower, scaffold, sound stage, platform, hammock, swing, tent, shelter or other
structure or camping equipment;
      (7)   Station or use any electrical or electronic device or equipment
that would require outdoor auxiliary power;
      (8)   Sell, lease, advertise, or offer for sale or lease any goods or
services;
      (9)   Display, post, or distribute any placard, handbill, pamphlet,
circular, book, or other writing containing commercial advertising matter on
village property;
      (10)   Bring, land, or cause to ascend or descend or land on village
property, any airplane, helicopter, flying machine, piloted balloon, parachute,
motorized model aircraft, model rocket or other motorized apparatus for
aviation;
      (11)   Use village property for day camps, day care or school outings,
instructional classes or organized groups not sponsored by the village,
including but not limited to, baseball leagues, soccer leagues, football
leagues and all other athletic leagues or camps;
      (12)   Create, light, or make use of a fire, including fires in
fireplaces, stoves and pits;
      (13)   Sell, bring within, give away, deliver, or consume alcoholic
beverages on village property; or
      (14)   Construct, maintain, or use any canopy or tent upon village
property.
   (B)   Any corporation, business, organization or individual who assembles
minors at a village park property for the purpose of instructing them in any
physical, mental or spiritual activity shall submit to a criminal background
check on the applicant as well as provide proof that a criminal background
check has been conducted on all individuals who will be providing instruction,
supervising, or having contact of any kind with the minors.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-26-2015)
§ 94.48 APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
   (A)   Filing written application. Any person seeking the issuance of a
permit shall apply for a permit by filing a written application for permit on a
form that shall be prescribed by the Mayor. Except as otherwise provided,
applications for permits shall be filed with the Mayor, or designated
alternate, at Village Hall.
   (B)   Indemnification and reimbursement agreement. No application for permit
shall be granted unless the applicant shall have executed an agreement with the
village, on a form to be prescribed by the Mayor, in which the applicant shall
promise to defend and indemnify the village and hold the village harmless from
any liability to any person resulting from any damage or injury occurring in
connection with the permitted event proximately caused by the action of the
permittee, the sponsoring organization, its officers, employees or agents or
any person under their control in so far as permitted by law.
   (C)   Insurance. The applicant shall procure and maintain at all times
during its use of village property, insurance in such amounts and with such
coverage as shall reasonably be required by the village and shall name the
village as an additional insured thereunder. The amounts and type of insurance
requested shall be determined by the Mayor, based upon the nature of the
activity and the risk involved. Applicant shall provide the village with a
certificate from its insurer evidencing such coverage prior to applicant's use
of village property.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-26-2015)
§ 94.49 PROCESSING OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   Order. Applications for permits shall be processed and scheduled
giving preference in the following order to the following activities and
groups, regardless of the order of receipt of fully executed applications:
      (1)   Village sponsored and supervised programs and activities;
      (2)   Village resident-based not-for-profit community, athletic and
social organizations;
      (3)   Other units of local government located in the village;
      (4)   Village approved activities sponsored by an individual or group of
village residents; and
      (5)   All others in the order the applications were received.
   (B)   Approval. Applications for permits shall be approved or denied within
7 business days of the filing of a complete application. If no written denial
is issued within 7 days of the date on which the application is fully
completed, executed and filed with the Mayor or designated alternate, the
village may extend the period of review for an additional 7 business days by
issuance of a written notice of extension. If, prior to the expiration of the
extended review period, no written denial is issued, the application for permit
shall be deemed approved.
   (C)   Notice of extended review or denial or issuance of permit. Written
notice of denial or notice of extension shall be served on the applicant by
personal delivery, or by deposit in United States mail, with proper postage
prepaid, to the name and address set forth on the application for permit.
   (D)   Contents of notice; grounds for denial. Notice of denial of an
application for permit shall clearly set forth the grounds upon which the
permit was denied and, where feasible, shall contain a proposal by the village
for measures by which the applicant may cure any defects in the application for
permit or otherwise procure a permit. Where an application for permit has been
denied because a fully executed prior application for the same time and place
has been received, and a permit has been or will be granted to the prior
applicant authorizing uses or activities which do not reasonably permit
multiple occupancy of the particular area, the village shall propose an
alternate place, if available for the same time, or an alternate time, if
available for the same place. The village may deny an application for permit on
any of the following grounds:
      (1)   The application for permit is not fully completed and executed;
      (2)   The applicant has not tendered the indemnification agreement or the
indemnification agreement has not been tendered in a timely manner;
      (3)   The application for permit contains a material falsehood or
misrepresentation;
      (4)   The applicant or the person on whose behalf the application for
permit was made has, on prior occasions, damaged village property and has not
paid in full for such damage, or has other outstanding and unpaid debts to the
village;
      (5)   A fully executed prior application for permit for the same time and
place has been received, and a permit has been or will be granted to a prior
applicant authorizing uses or activities which do not reasonably permit
multiple occupancy of the particular park or part thereof;
      (6)   The use or activity intended by the applicant would conflict with
previously planned programs organized and conducted by the village;
      (7)   The proposed use or activity is prohibited by or inconsistent with
the recognized and accepted uses of village park or part thereof;
      (8)   The applicant has not complied or cannot comply with applicable
licensure requirements, ordinances or regulations of the village concerning the
sale or offering for sale of any goods or services;
      (9)   The use or activity intended by the applicant is prohibited by law,
by this chapter, or by another ordinance of the village establishing park rules
and regulations;
      (10)   The applicant has not secured the requisite insurance;
      (11)   The applicant or others who will be present at the event have an
unacceptable criminal background and/or are registered sex offender;
      (12)   The applicant or the person on whose behalf the application for
permit was made, has on prior occasions made material misrepresentations
regarding the nature or scope of the event or activity previously permitted or
has violated the terms of prior permits issued to the applicant; or
      (13)   The use of a village park property by applicant would conflict
with the use of the village park property by a person or persons given a higher
priority pursuant to this chapter.
   (E)   Amendment or revision of applications. Any amendment or revision of an
application for permit shall, for purposes of determining the priority of the
application for permit, relate back to the original filing thereof, but the
time in which the village shall grant or deny the application for permit and
serve notice of such granting or denial shall be computed from the date of the
amendment or revision.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-26-2015)
§ 94.50 PERMIT VIOLATIONS; FINES; NOTICE.
   The violation by a permittee of the terms of a permit or the ordinances and
regulations of the village shall subject the permittee upon a finding of
liability for the violation to the maximum amount of fine permitted by this
chapter. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
violation. The Mayor shall provide the permittee prompt written notice of any
fines to be assessed against the permittee. Such notice shall be served on the
permittee by personal delivery, or by deposit in the United States mail, with
proper postage prepaid to the name and address set forth on the application for
permit.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-26-2015)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 94.60 ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT.
   Proceedings to enforce violations of this chapter may be initiated and
conducted in accordance with the provisions of the village ordinances for code
violations or by any other means provided by law.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-26-2015)
§ 94.61 PENALTIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The penalties provided for in this chapter are in addition to and not
exclusive of any other remedies available to the village as provided by
applicable law. The penalties provided for in any section of this chapter may
be imposed or assessed in addition to and not necessarily in lieu of the
penalties provided for in other sections of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-26-2015)
§ 94.62 POLICE FORCE.
   Village Police: Representatives from the Grundy and Will County, Illinois,
Sheriffs’ Departments are hereby authorized to enter upon the property owned,
leased, or controlled by the village for the purpose of enforcing the
ordinances of the village of Diamond.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-26-2015)
§ 94.63 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      LEGAL GUARDIAN. A person appointed guardian, or given custody, of a minor
by a circuit court of the state, but does not include a person appointed
guardian, or given custody, of a minor under the Juvenile Court Act or the
Juvenile Court Act of 1987.
      MINOR. A person who is not yet 18 years of age.
   (B)   The parent or legal guardian of a minor who resides with such parent
shall be responsible for the care, supervision, actions and conduct of such
minor when the minor is on or using village property or village park property.
   (C)   Liability. The parent or legal guardian of a minor who resides with
such parent or legal guardian is liable for actual damages for the willful or
malicious acts of such minor which cause injury to a person or any village
property.
   (D)   The village may seek to recover actual damages to village property
caused by the willful or malicious acts of a minor from the parent or legal
guardian pursuant to the provisions of the Illinois Parental Responsibility
Act, ILCS Ch. 740, Act 115, §§ 1 et seq. This remedy is non-exclusive and shall
not affect the recovery of damages in any other cause of action where the
liability of the parent or legal guardian is predicated on a common law basis.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-26-2015)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of any section of this chapter shall,
upon a finding of liability for said violation, be subject to a fine of not
less than $50 and not more than $750. Each day that a violation continues and
every violation of each separate section of this chapter shall be deemed a
separate violation.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-26-2015)
CHAPTER 95: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Open Burning
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Prohibited acts
   
95.03   Exemptions
   
95.04   Restrictions
 
   
95.99   Penalty
OPEN BURNING
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CEREMONIAL FIRE. An outdoor fire larger than 5 feet by 5 feet by 5 feet
which is used for entertainment purposes as part of a specifically scheduled
public or private event and excludes the burning of leaves, grass or shrubbery
clippings or cuttings.
   CONTROLLED BURNING. The burning, pursuant to an IEPA permit, of unharvested
ground cover or vegetation for the restoration or active management of a native
prairie.
   DOMICILE WASTE. Any refuse generated on single-family domiciliary property
as a result of domiciliary activities.
   GARBAGE. Refuse resulting from the handling, processing, preparation,
cooling, and consumption of food or food products.
   LANDSCAPE WASTE. Any vegetable or plant refuse, except garbage. The term
includes, but is not limited to, trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps,
brush, weeds, leaves, grass, shrubbery, yard trimmings, and crop residues.
   NATIVE PRAIRIE. A vegetative landscape state that features either preserved
or restored grasses and other ecosystems as they existed prior to agricultural,
residential or industrial development in this area.
   OPEN BURNING. The combustion of any matter in such a way that the products
of the combustion are emitted to the open air.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. An outdoor fire for warmth, cooking for human consumption
or temporary non-ceremonial purposes where the fire is not larger than 5 feet
by 5 feet by 5 feet and excludes the burning of leaves, grass, or shrubbery
clippings or cuttings.
   REFUSE. Any discarded matter, including but not limited to paper, cardboard,
lumber, metal, plastic, cloth, glass, rubber, ceramics, synthetic material,
discarded household items or any matter which is to be reduced in volume, or
otherwise changed in chemical or physical properties, in order to facilitate
its discard, removal or disposal.
   TRADE WASTE. Any refuse, resulting from the prosecution of any trade,
business, industry, commercial venture, utility or service activity, and any
governmental or institutional activity, whether or not for profit. The term
includes landscape waste.
(Ord. 2013-09, passed 7-23-2013; Am. Ord. 2023-02, passed 2-14-2023)
§ 95.02 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter:
   (A)   No person shall cause or allow open burning of any garbage, domicile
waste, trade waste or refuse without having obtained a permit from the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency.
   (B)   No person shall cause or allow within the boundaries of the village
open burning of landscape waste as defined to include leaves, trees, tree
trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds, grass, shrubbery and yard trimmings.
   (C)   No person shall cause or allow within the boundary of the village any
outside burning of any unharvested ground cover or vegetation.
   (D)   No person shall cause or allow the burning of grass clippings.
   (E)   No person shall cause or allow any open burning on or within any
sidewalk, right-of-way, or the paved or improved portion of any street or
roadway.
(Ord. 2013-09, passed 7-23-2013) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   The terms and provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to the
following:
   (A)   The setting of fires to combat or limit existing fires, when
reasonably necessary in the judgment of the local fire protection district.
   (B)   Recreational fires.
      (1)   Fires for the express purpose to cook food for human consumption,
such fires shall be contained in grills, charcoal burners, or the like.
      (2)   Fires within a dry stacked stone, masonry, or metal fire pit or
ring or within commercially manufactured portable fireplaces, but only if:
         (a)   Location. The location of the stone, masonry, or metal fire pit
or ring or commercially manufactured portable fireplace shall be at a safe and
reasonable distance from any building, structure, or vehicle and from any
container or other source of flammable liquids or vapors. A metal fire ring or
commercially manufactured portable fireplace shall not be placed on any
combustible surface.
         (b)   Fuel. No garbage, domicile waste or refuse shall be burned. Fuel
for such fires shall consist only of dry seasoned wood and a small quantity of
paper and lighter fluid for ignition purposes.
         (c)   Attendance. No burning shall take place on private property
without the presence and oversight of an adult over 18 years of age. No fires
shall be left unattended until entirely extinguished.
   (C)   The controlled burning of ground vegetation for the purpose of
establishing, restoring, sustaining or nurturing native prairies.
   (D)   The open burning of brush for purposes of creating a ceremonial fire
provided notice of the time, place and location of the proposed ceremonial fire
has been given to the village and the local fire protection district. The
failure to notify the village and the local fire protection district prior to
creating a ceremonial fire shall be deemed to be a violation of this
subchapter.
   (E)   The setting of fires in connection with firefighter training.
   (F)   The use of highway flares for roadway improvement purposes or safety
purposes.
   (G)   To any property zoned A-1, Agricultural District.
   (H)   The open burning of leaves, tree trimmings, and branches shall be
permitted from October 1 to November 30, provided such open burning shall be
subject to the following restrictions:
      (1)   Open burning shall occur only on the property upon which the
leaves, tree trimmings, and branches waste was generated.
      (2)   Open burning of leaves, tree trimmings, and branches is permitted
only on weekdays between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. and weekend days
between 9:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
      (3)   There shall be no open burning of leaves, tree trimmings, and
branches within 48 hours after any rainfall of more than one-half inch
precipitation.
(Ord. 2013-09, passed 7-23-2013; Am. Ord. 2019-06, passed 2-12-2019; Am. Ord.
2023-02, passed 2-14-2023)
§ 95.04 RESTRICTIONS.
   All burning permitted hereunder shall be subject to the following
restrictions:
   (A)   Burning shall not occur within 20 feet of any property line or
structure.
   (B)   All burning must be attended until the fire is completely extinguished
by a competent person at least 18 years of age. For purposes of this
subchapter, COMPLETELY EXTINGUISHED shall mean that there are no burning or
smoldering embers and no smoke is being produced.
   (C)   The person responsible for the open burning shall have a water supply,
a hose connected to a water supply, or other fire extinguishing equipment
available for prevention and suppression of the spread of fire.
   (D)   All burning conducted pursuant to authority under a permit issued by
the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency shall be commenced only after the
permitee has filed a copy of such permit with the village and the local fire
protection district, which permit shall be filed with the village and the local
fire protection district not less than 10 business days prior to the scheduled
burn date.
   (E)   Burning shall not create a visibility hazard on streets or roadways.
   (F)   Open burning is not permitted when the wind is in excess of 10 miles
per hour as determined by the closest office of the National Weather Service or
other recognized weather reporting agency.
(Ord. 2013-09, passed 7-23-2013) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of §§
95.01 through
95.04 shall be guilty of petty offense and shall be fined by the court as
provided in §
10.99 of this Code of Ordinances, plus the costs of the action. A separate and
distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each day upon which said person
shall continue any such violations. Other actions may be taken by law or in
equity to prevent any violation of §§
95.01 through
95.04, and these remedies shall be in additional to any other penalties.
(Ord. 2013-09, passed 7-23-2013)
CHAPTER 96: ANIMALS
Section
   
96.01   Adoption
§ 96.01 ADOPTION.
   The Animal_Control_Ordinance passed by the Grundy County Board on 4-14-1998
is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
Cross-reference:
   Keeping and Maintaining of Chickens, see
Ch. 97
CHAPTER 97: KEEPING AND MAINTAINING OF CHICKENS
Section
   
97.01   Keeping and maintaining of chickens permitted
   
97.02   Licensing
   
97.03   Backyard chicken regulations
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 KEEPING AND MAINTAINING OF CHICKENS PERMITTED.
   The Board of Commissioners hereby permits chickens to be kept on property in
the village pursuant to the following regulations.
(Ord. 2019-26, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 97.02 LICENSING.
   (A)   Purpose. Chicken licenses are established to provide a mechanism for
the lawful keeping of chickens that are uncommon in residential areas and that,
if kept improperly, would injure the public health, safety, comfort,
convenience, and general welfare. These regulations may be modified or
terminated by the Village Board of Commissioners and no license shall be
construed as a vested right to otherwise keep the permitted chickens except in
conformance with the requirements set forth herein.
   (B)   License required. No person shall own, keep, possess, harbor or offer
refuge to or for chickens in residential zoning districts without first
applying to and receiving a chicken license. Licenses are not required in the
A-1, Agricultural Zoning District.
   (C)   Eligibility. Only residents living in the R-1, 1-Family Residence
Zoning District may apply for and receive a chicken license.
   (D)   License term. Chicken licenses issued shall be valid from the date of
issuance until the current license holder sells or moves from the property that
the license was issued for unless the license is terminated pursuant to these
regulations.
   (E)   License fee. A non-refundable license fee of $150 shall accompany each
application. Said fee is imposed to defray the costs and expenses of the
village’s consideration of the application, regardless of the ultimate approval
or disapproval of the license sought. Application forms shall be provided by
the village.
   (F)   Transfer of license. Licenses issued shall only be valid for the
applicant listed on the application. A new license and application fee shall be
required in the event that an applicant or licensee moves to a new address or
transfers the chickens to a person not already possessing the appropriate
license.
   (G)   Responsible officer. The Village Zoning Officer or his or her designee
shall be responsible for the review, issuance, enforcement, and revocation of
chicken licenses.
   (H)   Inspection.
      (1)   Initial inspection. An on-site inspection shall be performed prior
to first issuance of a chicken license, and from time to time as described
herein. The applicant or licensee shall permit such inspection at reasonable
times and upon reasonable notice. Said consent to inspection is a condition of
any chicken license, and refusal shall be cause for rejection of an application
or revocation of a chicken license.
      (2)   Additional inspections. The Village Zoning Officer may perform an
inspection of the property of an applicant or licensee for any of the following
reasons:
         (a)   The village has received a documented complaint concerning the
conditions of the license, including the chickens permitted or the manner in
which the chickens are kept in; or
         (b)   The village has probable cause to believe a violation of this
chapter or the Village of Diamond Municipal Code related to chicken-keeping
exists.
      (3)   Inspection criteria. The inspection shall verify that the applicant
or licensee provides adequate shelter, food, water, yard condition, yard
security, and other necessary conditions to preserve the health of the
chickens, and complies with the requirements of this chapter. If any deficiency
of these conditions is found, the applicant or licensee must correct such
violation within such period of time as the village shall direct.
   (I)   Protective conditions. At the time of issuance, the Village Zoning
Officer may impose specific conditions upon the recipient of a chicken license
to prevent or minimize adverse effects upon other property in the vicinity of
the permitted activity. Such conditions shall be expressly set forth in the
license. Violation of any such condition or limitation shall be a violation of
the regulations contained in this chapter and shall constitute grounds for
revocation of the license.
   (J)   Revocation. Any license issued under the provisions of this chapter
may be revoked by the Village Zoning Officer for a violation of any condition
imposed upon a license, any provision hereof, or upon satisfactory proof that
the permitted activity was conducted in a manner detrimental to the public
safety, health, or morals. Such revocation may be in addition to the imposition
of a fine or other penalty for a violation of any provision of the Village of
Diamond Municipal Code, and shall be no defense to a prosecution for such
violation.
   (K)   Appeal. In the event any applicant or licensee shall be refused a
license by the Village Zoning Officer, have their license revoked, or shall
feel otherwise aggrieved, he or she shall have the right to appeal from the
decision of the Village Zoning Officer to the Board of Commissioners, which
Board shall have the power to reverse or otherwise modify the decision of the
Village Zoning Officer. Such appeal shall be in writing, addressed to the Mayor
and Board of Commissioners setting forth in detail the grounds of such appeal.
(Ord. 2019-26, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.03 BACKYARD CHICKEN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Limit upon number. No more than 8 chickens may be owned by any
licensee at any 1 time.
   (B)   Female chickens. Only female chickens (hens) may be owned or
maintained on a licensee’s property. It shall be unlawful to keep or maintain
roosters on the property.
   (C)   Slaughtering. No slaughtering of chickens shall occur in public view.
Any slaughtering shall be conducted in a humane fashion.
   (D)   Chicken enclosure.
      (1)   Chickens shall be kept in a coop or run at all times.
      (2)   No chicken enclosure shall be erected or maintained within 10 feet
of any occupied residence other than that of the licensee. Chicken enclosures
shall not be located within any recorded easement area nor within the minimum
setback areas for the R-1 Zoning District.
      (3)   Chicken enclosures shall only be erected or maintained in the rear
yard and behind the principal structure on the licensee’s lot.
      (4)   Chicken enclosures shall provide at least 4 square feet of area for
each chicken housed. Construction plans and a site plan must be approved by the
Diamond Planning and Zoning Office. There is no permit fee for chicken
enclosures of 100 square feet or less. Chicken enclosures of more than 100
square feet shall be the same fee as for a shed permit.
      (5)   Chicken enclosures must be maintained in a sound and useable
condition and shall comply with the village’s property maintenance code.
      (6)   Chicken enclosures must be constructed of sturdy and weather-
resistant materials, such as, without limitation: sturdy wire, wood, hardware
cloth. Chicken enclosures must include a covered top.
      (7)   Chicken enclosures shall be resistant to predators. All access
doors must be able to shut and locked. All opening windows and vents must be
covered with predator-proof wire with less than 1-inch openings.
      (8)   Chickens shall be provided with adequate open space in the form of
an enclosed chicken run. The run must be attached to the coop and be covered on
all sides, including the top.
      (9)   Electrical service to enclosures shall comply with all village
building and electrical codes, rules and regulations. Under no circumstances
shall electrical service be provided to an enclosure and/or shelter by using
extension cords or other temporary means.
      (10)   Licensee must remove the chicken enclosure prior to selling or
moving from the property that the license was issued for.
   (E)   Rear yard fence. The entire rear yard must be enclosed by a 6-foot
privacy fence. All fences must be approved by the Diamond Planning and Zoning
office. The licensee shall be required to complete and submit a fence permit
application and pay the required fence permit fees.
   (F)   Sanitation. The enclosure and open space must be kept clean and
sanitary at all times.
   (G)   Rodent protection. All feed and other items associated with the
keeping of chickens shall be protected from or to prevent rats, mice, or other
rodents from gaining access to or coming into contact with the feed.
   (H)   Nuisances. No licensee shall permit:
      (1)   Noxious or offensive odors from chicken-keeping, including the odor
of chickens or manure, to be perceptible at or beyond the boundary of the
licensee’s property;
      (2)   Offensive noise from chickens that disturbs the peace at any time;
or
      (3)   Any other public or private nuisance resulting from the permitted
activity, whether by litter, droppings, feathers, waste, or attraction of pests
or rodents.
   (I)   State registration. The licensee’s premises upon which chickens are
kept shall be registered with the Illinois Department of Agriculture, and proof
of registration shall be maintained on site.
   (J)   Covenants and Health Code. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed
to permit the keeping of chickens when such activity is prohibited by private
covenants, conditions or restrictions governing the use of property, or by
rules, regulations or orders issued by the Illinois Department of Health or the
Grundy County or Will County Health Departments.
   (K)   Accessory building. All chicken enclosures shall be considered an
accessory building under the Diamond Zoning Code and therefore are subject to
the maximum lot coverage and percentage of required rear yard occupied
requirements.
   (L)   Compliance. All persons keeping chickens as of the effective date of
this chapter shall have until December 31, 2020 to bring their property into
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-26, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found to be in violation of this Chapter shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $750 for each offense. Each day a person fails to comply
with this Chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2019-26, passed 12-10-2019)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS
      
111.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
112.   CABLE TELEVISION REGULATIONS
      
113.   VENDING MACHINES
      
114.   SALE OF TOBACCO, TOBACCO PRODUCTS, ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE OR ELECTRONIC
CIGARETTES
      
115.   HOME KITCHEN AND COTTAGE FOOD OPERATIONS
      
116.   RAFFLES
      
117.   CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED
      
118.   MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Local Liquor Control Commissioner; powers, duties and functions;
compensation
   
110.03   License required
   
110.04   Application for local liquor license/permit
   
110.05   Restrictions on issuance of liquor license/permit
   
110.06   Term; prorating application fee
   
110.07   License classifications; permits
   
110.08   Number of licenses
   
110.09   Disposition of license fees
   
110.10   BASSET certification required
   
110.11   Hearings before the Local Liquor Control Commissioner
   
110.12   Appeals from an order of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner
   
110.13   Transfer of license/permit
   
110.14   Renewal of license/permit; availability of licenses/permits
   
110.15   Change of location
   
110.16   Licensed premises; restrictions
   
110.17   Hours of operation
   
110.18   Peddling
   
110.19   Compliance with building, sanitary, safety and other regulations of
the village
   
110.20   Applicability of other laws
   
110.21   Service restrictions
   
110.22   Prohibited conduct; licensees conduct
   
110.23   Dram shop insurance
   
110.24   Conduct of employees and agents
   
110.25   Sales to minors; intoxicated persons; others
   
110.26   Regulations with respect to underage persons
   
110.27   Identification
   
110.28   Responsibility of owner or occupant of premises
   
110.29   Parental responsibility
   
110.30   Notices; signage
   
110.31   View from street
   
110.32   Recordkeeping
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
All words and phrases used in this chapter, not otherwise defined herein, and
which are defined in the Liquor Control Act of 1934 ("Act"), 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et
seq., shall have the meanings accorded to such words and phrases in the Act.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms, as used in this
chapter, shall be construed according to the definitions given below:
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Any alcohol, spirits, wine, beer, ale or other liquid
manufactured, produced or distilled for or fit for beverage purposes that
contains any amount of alcohol, including beverages commonly known as “near
beer,” “nonalcoholic beer,” or “nonalcoholic wine” whose taste, color, odor and
consistency are similar to the alcoholic beverages known as beer and wine and,
except for the reduced alcohol content, are marketed as being similar to beer
or wine.
   BAR. A barrier or counter at and over which alcoholic liquor and foods are
passed or served.
   BEER. A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt, and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
   BEER GARDEN.  A privately owned outdoor location adjacent to a premise
licensed for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the
licensed premises, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   BREWER. A person who is engaged in the manufacture of beer.
   CATERER, CATERING ESTABLISHMENT, CATERING SERVICE.  A person or business
that for compensation processes, prepares, and serves meals or food items for
immediate offpremises consumption at banquets, dinners, or other special
occasions, where the recipients of the food or service are specifically invited
to each particular event. This definition shall not include any business
location where on-premises over-the-counter retail sale of food items occurs.
   CIDER. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by alcohol fermentation of the juice
of apples or pears including, but not limited to, flavored, sparkling or
carbonated cider.
   CONTROL OF PREMISES.  The legal or beneficial ownership, rental, lease or
holding of a license shall constitute control of property. Control may also
exist where none of the aforesaid legal relationships apply, but where an adult
is otherwise in charge of, or charged with, controlling a particular premise.
   CONVENIENCE STORE.  A building less than 3,000 square feet in size, in which
the primary business conducted is the sale of food products, beverages,
household products, cosmetic items, reading materials and other goods for the
convenience of the public.
   CRAFT BEER. Beer from a craft brewery that:
      (1)   Produces less than 2,000,000 barrels of beer annually;
      (2)   Is less than 25% owned or controlled by an alcoholic beverage
industry member that is not a craft brewer; and
      (3)   Produces a significant volume of either malt beers or beers that
use adjuncts to enhance, rather than to lighten, flavor.
   DELIVERY OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.  The sale, giving or exchange of alcoholic
liquor from one person to another. DELIVERY is meant to include the act of
providing alcoholic liquor, by any means, to one person from another.
   DISTILLED SPIRITS. An alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation of grains,
fruits, or vegetables through alcoholic fermentation.
   DISTILLER.  A person who distills, ferments, brews, makes, mixes, concocts,
processes, blends, bottles or fills an original package with any alcoholic
liquor.
   DRINK.  Any alcoholic liquor served in a cup, glass, bottle or other
container measured as follows:
      (1)   A serving of not more than 26 ounces of beer.
      (2)   A serving of not more than seven ounces of wine.
      (3)   A serving of not more than three ounces of distilled spirits; or
      (4)   A serving of not more than 16 ounces of beer accompanied by a
separate serving of not more than 1.5 ounces of distilled spirits.
   DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT. A food service establishment with or without interior
facilities for eating, which caters to and permits the consumption of food
either in customers' automobiles parked on the premises or in other designated
areas on the premises outside the establishment where the food is prepared. For
purposes of this chapter, DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT shall not be included in the
definition of “Restaurant”.
   EMPLOYEE.  Any individual hired to regularly provide services related to a
licensee’s sale or offer for sale of alcoholic liquor pursuant to the
licensee’s license classification, in exchange for compensation from which
applicable taxes are withheld, and over whom the licensee maintains control for
employment purposes. This definition does not include individuals who provide
services as an independent contractor.
   ENTERTAINMENT.  Any live act or live performance whether or not using sound
amplification, and/or any playing of pre-recorded music or voices by use of a
juke box or music vending machine or device which, upon insertion of a coin,
slug, token, plate, disc or key into any slot or other opening, or by the
payment of any other consideration, operates or may be operated for the
emission of songs, music or similar amusement.
   FALSE IDENTIFICATION. Any document used for identification or proof of age
that is altered or defaced, or contains false or misleading information, or a
name that is not the actual name of the person using the subject
identification.
   FIGHTING.  Any threatening or touching of another person which provokes or
tends to provoke a breach of the peace.
   GAMBLING. Any act in violation of section 5/28-1 (a)(l) --(a)(12), 5/28-1.1,
5/28-2 or 5/283 of the Illinois Criminal Code of 1961 (720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.),
as amended.
   GENERAL PUBLIC.  The whole body politic, including residents of the village,
the State of Illinois and the United States of America, and/or persons at large
traveling through the village, as different from the designation of a
particular person or group of persons.
   GROWLER.  A refillable, sealed container sold on a licensed premise by a
licensee, containing craft beer for consumption off the licensed premises.
   IMPAIRMENT. Any diminution or compromise of a person's physical, mental or
perceptual abilities due to the consumption of alcoholic liquor. IMPAIRMENT
does not require that the blood alcohol content be in excess of any particular
gram of alcohol to milliliters of blood or breath ratio.
   LICENSE or LOCAL LIQUOR LICENSE. The specific grant of the privilege and
authority to sell or offer for sale alcoholic liquor at retail in the manner
set forth in the text of a particular license classification.
   LICENSED PREMISES. The building, portion of the building, place or location
described in a local liquor license/permit where alcoholic liquor may be
stored, displayed, or offered for sale by the licensee, pursuant to the terms
of their license/permit. Not included in this definition are sidewalks,
streets, parking areas and grounds adjacent to any such building, place or
location unless specified in the license/permit.
   LICENSEE. That person who by issuance of a license/permit pursuant to this
chapter, has been given the privilege by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner
to engage in the retail sale, production and/or storage of alcoholic liquor in
the village, pursuant to the terms of the license/permit. This shall include
the holder of a local liquor license/permit, or any officer, principal,
employee or agent of the licensee.
   LIQUOR CONTROL ACT. The Liquor Control of Act of 1934, as amended (235 ILCS
5/1-1 et seq.).
   LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION.  The office of the Village Mayor as
assisted by appropriate legal counsel; this may include such other persons as
the mayor may appoint to aid in the exercise of the powers and the performance
of the duties of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
   LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER.  The Mayor of the village.
   LOUNGE.  That portion of a licensed premises kept, used, maintained,
advertised, and held out to the public as a place where alcoholic liquor is
offered for retail sale for consumption on the licensed premises only, and not
necessarily in conjunction with the full service of meals. This definition may
also include the terms “cocktail lounges” or “bars”.
   MAINTENANCE OF ORDER STANDARD.  That standard by which it shall be
determined whether a licensee has maintained order on the licensed premises.
Adherence to this standard shall be a duty of the licensee and shall generally
be stated as the establishment and maintenance of the optimum precautions and
actions that are practical for deterring and preventing fighting as defined in
this chapter.
   MANUFACTURER. Every brewer, fermenter, distiller, rectifier, wine maker,
blender, processor, bottler or person who fills or refills an original package,
whether for himself or for another, and others engaged in brewing, fermenting,
distilling, rectifying or bottling alcoholic liquors as above defined.
   MEAD (MEADERIES).  Mead or honey wine is an alcoholic beverage created by
fermenting honey with water sometimes with various fruits, species, grains, or
hops. The alcoholic content ranges from about 3.5% ABV to more than 18%.
   MEAL PACKAGE.  A food and beverage package, which may or may not include
entertainment, where the service of alcoholic liquor is an accompaniment to
food, including but not limited to a meal, tour, tasting, or any combination
thereof for a fixed price by a licensee operating within a sports facility,
restaurant, winery, brewery, or distillery.
   MINOR.  Any person who has not attained the age of 21 years.
      ORIGINAL PACKAGE. A bottle, flask, jug, can, barrel, keg or other
receptacle or container used, corked, or capped, sealed, and labeled by the
manufacturer of alcoholic liquor to contain and convey or distribute any
alcoholic liquor.
   PARENT.  A natural or adoptive parent or a court-designated guardian.
   PARTY PACKAGE. A private party, function, or event for a specific social or
business occasion, either arranged by invitation or reservation for a defined
number of individuals, that is not open to the general public and where
attendees are served both food and alcohol for a fixed price in a dedicated
space.
   PATRON. A customer of, or visitor to, a licensed premises.
   PERMIT.  The specific grant of a privilege and authority to a person to act
in the manner proscribed by the text of a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter.
   RESTAURANT. Any public place, without sleeping accommodations, maintained
and held out to the public as a place primarily devoted to full-service, sit-
down dining, including dinner and/or luncheon menus at which the service of
alcoholic liquor is incidental and complementary to the service of such meals,
and where not less than 75% of the retail floor area is devoted to the service
of complete sit-down meals from a menu and not more than 25% of the retail
floor area is devoted to lounge, bar and/or banquet purposes. Limited food
service, as typically provided by drive-in restaurants, diners, coffee shops,
fast food operations and similar uses, does not satisfy the requirements of
this definition.
   RETAIL SALE. The transfer, sale, delivery, exchange, or barter in any manner
of alcoholic liquor to a consumer, private club member, or general public by
any person, whether principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee of a
licensee, as distinguished from the sale or delivery for legal resale.
   SALON (FULL-SERVICE).  A non-home-based business that offers hair, nail and
skin care services, but does not provide full body massages or similar services
in private rooms.
   SCHOOL. Educational institutions, including preschools and daycare centers,
but not including undergraduate or postgraduate colleges or universities, that
have a formal and recognized academic curriculum.
   SERVICE STATION.  A non-home-based business where the primary service
offered is the sale of gasoline for motor vehicles.
   SHOT.  A serving of not more than one and one-half ounces of distilled
spirits.
   SPIRITS.  Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin, or other spiritous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
   STATE COMMISSION.  The State of Illinois Liquor Control Commission, as
defined under the Liquor Control of Act of 1934, as amended (235 ILCS 5/1-1, et
seq.).
   UNDERAGE PERSON.  Any person under 21 years of age.
   VIDEO GAMING.  Any electronic video game machine that, upon insertion of
cash, electronic cards or vouchers, or any combination thereof, is available to
play or simulate the play of a video game, including but not limited to video
poker, line up, and blackjack, utilizing a video display and microprocessors in
which the player may receive free games or credits that can be redeemed for
cash. The term does not include a machine that directly dispenses coins, cash,
or tokens or is for amusement purposes only.
   VILLAGE CODE (LOCAL ORDINANCE). The Village of Diamond Code of Ordinances,
as amended.
   VILLAGE POLICE AGENCY. The Will County Sheriff Department for license
premises in Will County, IL and the Grundy County Sheriff Department for
license premises in Grundy County, IL.
   WINE.  Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits, or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits, as above defined.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 110.02 LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER; POWERS, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS;
COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Commissioner. The Village Mayor shall, in accordance with local and
state law, serve as the Local Liquor Control Commissioner of the village, and
shall be charged with the administration of the provisions of the Act and of
such ordinances and resolutions relating to alcoholic liquor as may be enacted.
The Village Mayor may appoint a person or persons to assist him in the exercise
of the powers and the performance of the duties provided for such local liquor
control commissioner. Any person so appointed by the local liquor control
commissioner shall have the powers granted to the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner by this section.
   (B)   Powers, duties and functions. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner
shall have all of the powers, functions and duties delegated to that office by
the Act and the resolutions and ordinances of the village, including but not
limited to the following powers, duties and functions with respect to local
liquor licenses/permits:
      (1)   To grant and/or suspend for not more than 30 days or revoke for
cause, any local liquor license/permit issued by the village to persons or
entities for premises within the Local Liquor Control Commissioner’s
jurisdiction, and to impose fines as authorized by this chapter.
      (2)   To adopt rules and regulations for the conduct and operation of a
licensee's business which are not inconsistent with state law or the
resolutions and ordinances of the village.
      (3)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer(s) to enter,
at any time and with notice as required pursuant to state law, upon any
licensed premises to determine whether the provisions of applicable state law,
Village Code or the rules or regulations adopted by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner or by the state commission, have been or are being violated, and
to examine the licensed premises in connection therewith.
      (4)   To receive complaints from any citizen within his jurisdiction that
any of the provisions of state law or the Village Code have been or are being
violated and to act upon such complaint in the manner provided by law.
      (5)   To order local liquor license/permit fees be paid to the village.
      (6)   To examine, or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for
a local liquor license/permit, or as applicable for a renewal thereof, or any
licensee upon whom notice of revocation or suspension has been served, or any
licensee against whom a citation proceeding has been instituted by the state
commission; to examine, or cause to be examined, the books and records of any
such applicant, licensee or respondent; to hear testimony and take proof for
his or her information in the performance of his or her duties; and for such
purpose to issue subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of this state.
For the purpose of obtaining any of the information desired by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner under this section, he or she may authorize his or her
agent to act on his or her behalf.
      (7)   To order, upon the issuance of a written order, the licensed
premises closed for not more than seven days, giving the licensee an
opportunity to be heard during that period, if the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner has reason to believe that any continued operation of a particular
licensed premises will immediately threaten the welfare of the community;
except that if such licensee shall also be engaged in the conduct of another
business or businesses on the licensed premises unrelated to the local liquor
license, such order shall not be applicable to the other business or
businesses.
      (8)   To suspend, pending a hearing within 15 days of service of a notice
of suspension, the privilege of delivering alcoholic liquor by any licensee who
does not display a currently valid state and local liquor license, or who in
the judgment of the Local Liquor Commissioner is operating a business in such a
manner as to endanger the health or safety of patrons of the premises or of the
community.
      (9)   Duty to report. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall, upon
entering an order or ruling relative to a local liquor commissioner hearing,
report to the Village Board at its next regularly schedule meet, his or her
findings and the penalties, if any, initiated against the licensee.
      (10)   Compensation. The Local Liquor Commissioner's compensation is
included in the Mayoral pay.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 110.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to sell at retail, deliver, give away, or
dispense in any fashion in the village, any alcoholic liquor without first
obtaining a local liquor license/permit pursuant to this chapter, for each
location, place or premises where the retailer is located, or to do so in
violation of the terms of such license/permit.
   (B)   Where two or more such locations, places or premises are under the
same roof or at the same street address, a separate license/permit shall be
obtained for each such location, place or premises, unless otherwise authorized
by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
   (C)   The issuance to, or possession by, any person of a retail liquor
dealer tax stamp issued for a current tax period by the United States
Government or any of its agencies, shall constitute prima facie evidence that
such person is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Within 15 days after obtaining a local liquor license permit pursuant
to this chapter, the licensee shall, as applicable, obtain a similar liquor
license required by the State of Illinois for the sale at retail of any
alcoholic liquor. No alcoholic liquor may be purveyed by the licensee under a
license/permit issued pursuant to this chapter until the applicable state
license is obtained by the licensee and proof of same is provided to the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner. The licensee must maintain its state license in
good standing for the term of its local liquor license/permit.
   (E)   All licensees shall cause the license issued pursuant to this chapter,
the similar state license, and the signage requirements set forth in §
110.30 below, to be framed and displayed at all times on the licensed premises
in a conspicuous location, prominently visible to all patrons. Permits issued
pursuant to this chapter shall be produced to the village upon demand.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 110.04 APPLICATION FOR LOCAL LIQUOR LICENSE/PERMIT.
   (A) Application for a license/permit shall be made to the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner. The application shall be in writing on forms provided by
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, signed by the applicant if an
individual, or by a duly authorized agent if a club or corporation, verified by
oath or affidavit, and shall require such information as determined by the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner, including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   The full name, age, address, date of birth and citizenship of the
applicant in the case of an individual; and if a naturalized citizen, also the
date and place of naturalization.
      (2)   In the case of a partnership, the name(s), age(s), date(s) of birth
and citizenship of the persons entitled to share in the profits thereof; in the
case of a corporation or limited liability company, the date of incorporation
if an Illinois corporation, the date of organization if an Illinois limited
liability company or the date of becoming qualified under the Illinois Business
Corporation Act (805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq.) or the Illinois Limited Liability
Company Act (805 ILCS 180/ et seq.) to transact business in Illinois if a
foreign corporation; and the name(s), address(es) and date(s) of birth of each
officer, director, manager, member, persons owning directly or beneficially
more than 5% of the stock of such corporation or more than 5% of the membership
interest of such limited liability company, and of the person to act as manager
of the licensed premises.
      (3)   The purpose and character of the applicant's business.
      (4)   The length of time the applicant has been in business of that
character.
      (5)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license/permit.
      (6)   If a leased premises, a copy of the lease shall be provided and
shall be for a term of sufficient length to encompass the period of the
license/permit sought; and the name(s) and address(es) of the owner(s) of the
premises or of the owner(s) of the beneficial interest of any trust if the
premises is held in trust, along with a statement from such owner(s)
authorizing the use of the premises for such purpose if the owner(s) is
different from the applicant.
      (7)   A statement that the applicant has never been convicted of a felony
and is not disqualified to receive a license/permit by reason of any matter or
thing contained in this chapter, or pursuant to the laws of the State of
Illinois or Village Code.
      (8)   Whether a previous license/permit by any state or subdivision
thereof, or by the federal government has been applied for or issued; if so
where and when, or if any such license/permit was revoked and the reason(s) for
the revocation.
      (9)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any laws of the
United States, the State of Illinois, or Village Code in the conduct of his or
her business.
      (10)   A statement that the applicant has not received or borrowed money
or anything of value, and that he or she will not receive or borrow money or
anything of value (other than merchandising credit in the ordinary course of
business for a period not to exceed 90 days, as provided by statute), directly
or indirectly from any manufacturer, importing distributor or distributor
representative of any such manufacturer, importing distributor or distributor
of alcoholic liquor and has not been a party in any way, directly or
indirectly, to any violation by a manufacturer, distributor or importing
distributor as prescribed by statute.
      (11)   A statement that the person eligible to be issued, and to sign the
application for the local liquor license, is 21 years of age or older (e.g.,
officer, director, stockholder, member, manager, agent or partner).
   (B)   Only completed and fully executed applications will be consider by the
Local Liquor Commissioner. Applications that are incomplete, inaccurate or fail
to contain the statements or information required by this section will not be
considered.
   (C)   Applications for a new local liquor license/permit shall also require
a criminal background check of the application/owner(s) of the prospective
licensee. At the discretion of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner,
background checks of the manager(s) of a prospective licensee may also be
required. The applicant's background check shall be without charge.
   (D)   All local liquor licenses/permits shall be conditioned on the
acquisition and maintenance in good standing by the applicant and licensee of
general liability insurance in the amount of at least $1,000,000 for injury or
death to any person and $1,000,000 for damage to property and dram shop
liability insurance at least to the maximum amount recoverable under applicable
state statutes and as required under §
110.23 of this chapter. Before any local liquor license/permit may be issued,
the applicant shall furnish the Local Liquor Control Commissioner with a
certificate from an insurance company authorized to do business in this state
certifying the applicant has such insurance policies in force for the full
period for which the local liquor license is to be issued.
   (E)   No license/permit may be issued by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner until all information and documentation required in the
application or required by this section have been provided, all of the reports
from the various departments and agencies with respect to background checks
have been completed and all fees due from the applicant have been paid in full.
   (F)   Upon issuance of any license/permit under this chapter, the licensee
shall keep the information contained in the application current by furnishing
to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, within 30 days of any change in such
information, written notice of the change in information.
   (G)   During the term of a local liquor license/permit, a licensee shall
have available a manger or owner who is identified in the licensee's liquor
license application, as a member of the licensee's managerial staff. Any change
to the licensee's managerial staff must be reported to the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner within 30 days of the change. Each manager, at the discretion of
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, may be subject to a criminal background
check.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 110.05 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF LIQUOR LICENSE/PERMIT.
   (A)   No license/permit under this chapter shall be issued to the following:
      (1)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides.
      (2)   A person who is not a citizen or a legal resident of the United
States.
      (3)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or
state law, or of a violation of Village Code under this chapter.
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime opposed
to decency and morality.
      (5)   A person whose license/permit issued under this chapter was
previously revoked for cause.
      (6)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license/
permit issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license/permit under a
first application.
      (7)   A partnership, if any general partner, limited partner or other
member of such partnership owning more than 5% of the aggregate partner
interest in such partnership would not be eligible to receive a license/permit
under this chapter for any reason other than citizenship and/or residency.
      (8)   A corporation or limited liability company, if any officer,
manager, or director thereof, or any stockholder(s) owning in the aggregate
more than 5% of the stock of such corporation, or any member(s) owning in the
aggregate more than 5% of the membership interest of such limited liability
company would not be eligible to receive a license/permit hereunder for any
reason other than citizenship and/or residency.
      (9)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee.
      (10)   A person who is a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee on the premises for which the license/permit is sought or does
not have a lease for that premises for the full term of the subject license/
permit.
      (11)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or
state law concerning the manufacture, possession, or sale of alcoholic liquor,
or who shall have forfeited his or her bond to appear in court to answer
charges for any such violation.
      (12)    Any law-enforcing public official, including the Mayor, any
member of the Village Board, and any member of the corporate authorities within
their own community; and no such official shall have a direct interest in the
manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor, except that a license/
permit may be granted to such official in relation to premises which are not
located within the territory subject to the jurisdiction of that official if
the issuance of such license/permit is approved by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner and as applicable the state commission; and except that a license/
permit may be granted to a member of the Village Board in relation to premises
that are located within the territory subject to the jurisdiction of that
official if (i) the sale of alcoholic liquor pursuant to the license/permit is
incidental to the selling of food; (ii) the issuance of the license/permit is
approved by the state commission, if applicable; (iii) the issuance of the
license/permit is in accordance with all applicable local ordinances in effect
where the premises are located; and (iv) the official granted a license/permit
does not vote on alcoholic liquor issues before the Board to which the license
holder is elected. Notwithstanding any provision of this paragraph to the
contrary, a member of the Village Board may have a direct interest in the
manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor provided he is not a law
enforcing public official or president of the Village Board. To prevent any
conflict of interest, the elected official with the direct interest in the
manufacture, sale, or distribution of alcoholic liquor cannot participate in
any meetings, hearings or decisions on matters impacting the manufacture, sale
or distribution of alcoholic liquor.
      (13)   Any person not eligible for a state retail liquor dealer's
license.
      (14)   Any other person where prohibited by state statute.
      (15)   A corporation or limited liability company unless it is
incorporated or organized in Illinois, or unless it is a foreign corporation or
a limited liability company qualified and registered under the Business
Corporation Act of 1983 (805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq.) or the Limited Liability
Company Act (805 ILCS 180/1-1 et seq.) to transact business in Illinois.
      (16)   A member or manager of a partnership if any such member or manager
is not a citizen or legal resident of the United States.
      (17)   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as
proscribed by 720 ILCS 5/28-1 (a)(l)--(a)(11), as amended, or as proscribed by
720 ILCS 5/28-1.1 or 5/28-3, as amended, or any other applicable state statute.
      (18)   A person or entity to whom a federal wagering stamp has been
issued by the federal government, unless the person or entity is eligible to be
issued a license under the Raffles Act (230 ILCS 15/0/01 et seq.) or the
Illinois Pull Tabs and Jar Games Act (235 ILCS 20/1 et seq.).
   (B)   Corporate and Limited Liability Company exception. A criminal
conviction of a corporation or a limited liability company is not grounds for
the denial, suspension or revocation of a license/permit applied for or held by
the corporation or a limited liability company if the criminal conviction was
not the result of a violation of any federal or state law concerning the
manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor; or if the offense that led
to the conviction did not result in any financial gain to the corporation or
the limited liability company and the corporation or the limited liability
company has terminated its relationship with each director, officer, manager,
employee and/or controlling shareholder or member whose actions directly
contributed to the conviction. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall
determine if all provisions of this division (B) have been met before any
action on the corporation's or limited liability company's license/permit is
initiated.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 110.06 TERM; PRORATING APPLICATION FEE.
   (A)   Each license issued under this chapter shall commence on January 1 and
shall terminate on December 31 next following the date of issuance.
   (B)   License fees shall not be prorated except in the following instances:
      (1)   Where the license is obtained after July 1 of any license year, the
fee shall be reduced in proportion to the number of full calendar months that
have expired in the license term.
      (2)   Where the license is returned by the license holder upon the
permanent closing of the business, and not upon the sale or transfer of the
business or assets thereof, the fee paid shall be returned in proportion to the
number of full calendar months which have not expired in the license term.
   (C)   Each permit issued under this chapter shall commence and terminate on
the dates identified in the permit. Permit fees shall not be prorated.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 110.07 LICENSE CLASSIFICATIONS; PERMITS.
   (A)   License classifications. Every person engaged in the retail sale and
delivery of alcoholic liquor in the village must first obtain the appropriate
license authorizing the sale and delivery of alcoholic liquor at the business
at which it may be sold. No license shall be issued unless the applicant has
met all qualifications for the requested license. All new, transferred or
renewed licenses issued after the date of passage of this chapter (August 8,
2023) shall be divided into the following classifications:
      (1)   (a)   Class A - Retail Sale License (Consumption On/Off Licensed
Premises). Class A license shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor
for consumption on and off the licensed premises. A Class A license shall
authorize a bar to sell alcoholic liquor in its original package. No sale of
alcoholic liquor shall be permitted in a drive-up or drivethrough or other
similar facility. The annual fee for such license shall be $900.
         (b)   Class A-1 - Retail Sale License (Consumption on Licensed
Premises Only). Class A-1 license shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the licensed premises only, where the primary
business is not that of a bar or restaurant. The annual fee for such license
shall be $600.
      (2)   Class B - Grocery Store/Supermarket; Service Station License. Class
B license shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor not for
consumption on the licensed premises where sold, by retail food establishments
commonly referred to as grocery stores or supermarkets, and the retail sale of
beer and/or wine by a service station, as that term is defined above. No sale
of alcoholic liquor shall be permitted in a drive-up or drive-through or other
similar facility. This license classification requires that (a) the retail
floor area devoted to the display of alcoholic liquor shall not exceed 10% of
the total retail floor area of the licensed premises; (b) all alcoholic liquor
sales and storage shall occur in a location physically separate from the sale
and storage of all other merchandise offered for retail sale at the licensed
premises; and (c) the licensee maintain a separate cash register and full-time
cashier located in the separated area dedicated solely to the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor. Licensees holding a Class B license and operating a grocery
store/supermarket shall also be permitted, in conjunction with their business
operations, to conduct sampling on the licensed premises of alcoholic liquor
sold by the licensee. All sampling shall be attended and supervised by a BASSET
certified manager and must occur in a single designated location at the
licensed premises as approved by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
Licensees shall not provide more than three free samples to any patron in a
single day. Sample sizes shall not exceed one-half fluid ounces for distilled
spirits, five fluid ounces for wine and 12 fluid ounces for beer. Sampling
shall be subject to any additional regulations deemed necessary by the local
liquor control commissioner. Sampling shall not be permitted at service
stations. The annual fee for such license shall be $600.
      (3)   Class C - Package Store License. Class C license shall authorize
the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, only in the original package and not for
consumption on the licensed premises where sold, by establishments commonly
known as package stores; provided the licensee dedicates substantially all of
the retail floor space of the licensed premises to the display of alcoholic
liquor. No sale of alcoholic liquor shall be permitted in a driveup or drive-
through or other similar facility. Licensees holding a Class C license shall
also be permitted, in conjunction with their business operations, to conduct
sampling on the licensed premises of alcoholic liquor sold by the licensee. All
sampling shall be attended and supervised by a BASSET certified manager and
must occur in a single designated location at the licensed premises as approved
by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. Licensees shall not provide more than
three free samples, each of which shall not exceed one-quarter fluid ounce, to
any patron in a single day. Sampling shall be subject to any additional
regulations deemed necessary by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. Video
gaming on the licensed premises is prohibited. The annual fee for such license
shall be $600.
      (4)   Class D - Convenience Store License. Class D license shall
authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor only in the original package, and
only for consumption off the licensed premises where sold, by retail
establishments commonly referred to as convenience stores, as that term is
defined in §
110.01 above. No sale of alcoholic liquor shall be permitted in a drive-up or
drive-through or other similar facility. This classification of license
requires that the retail floor space devoted to the display of alcoholic liquor
be confined to a liquor display area approved by the Local Liquor Commissioner
or his or her designee and shall not exceed 30% of the total retail floor area
of the licensed premises. Video gaming on the licensed premises is prohibited.
The annual fee for such license shall be $600.
      (5)   Class E - Limited-Service Dining License. Class E license shall
authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, as identified in the license, on
the licensed premises where sold, where no portion of the licensed premises
contains a lounge or bar, and the primary business conducted on the licensed
premises is a: (a) coffee shop; or (b) limited service dining establishment
where food is prepared for consumption on or off the licensed premises and the
service of alcoholic liquor is incidental to the sale of food prepared for
limited sit-down dining on the licensed premises. The retail sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption off the licensed premises is prohibited. No sale of
alcoholic liquor shall be permitted in a drive-up or drive-through or other
similar facility. Video gaming on the licensed premises is prohibited. The
annual fee for such license shall be $600.
      (6)   Class F -Restaurant and Bar License. Class F license shall
authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor on the licensed premises for
consumption on the licensed premises, when the primary business conducted on
the licensed premises is that of a restaurant, as that term is defined in §
110.01 above. Service of alcoholic liquor shall be only during the time that
food is being served and a full menu is in effect. The retail sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption off the licensed premises is prohibited. No sale of
alcoholic liquor shall be permitted in a drive-up or drive-through or other
similar facility. The license shall only be available for premises defined as a
“restaurant” herein containing a minimum area of 1,200 square feet. The annual
fee for such license shall be $900.
      (7)   Class G - Bar and Grill License. Class G license shall authorize
the retail sale of alcoholic liquor on the licensed premises for consumption on
the licensed premises when the primary business conducted upon the licensed
premises is that of a bar and grill. For purposes of this section a bar and
grill must derive at least 40% of its annual gross revenue from the sale of
food. The determination of whether the 40% gross revenue standard is met shall
be made at the time of license renewal for the calendar year just ended based
upon records that shall include, but not be limited to, audited financial
statements, corporate financial reports, tax returns, state liquor license
reports or other information deemed acceptable by the local liquor control
commissioner or his or her designee. The retail sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption off the licensed premises is prohibited. No sale of alcoholic
liquor shall be permitted in a drive-up or drive-through or other similar
facility. The annual fee for such license shall be $800.
      (8)   Class H - Beer and Wine Retail Sales (Consumption On Licensed
Premises). A beer and wine retail sales license authorizes the retail sale of
beer and wine only for consumption on the premises where sold by the glass,
bottle, carafe or beer by the pitcher of a capacity not to exceed 60 ounces.
The license shall only be available for premises containing a minimum area of
1,200 square feet. No sale of alcoholic liquor shall be permitted in a drive-up
or drive-through or other similar facility. The retail sale of beer and wine
for consumption off the licensed premises is prohibited. The annual fee for a
Class H license shall be $1,500.
      (9)   Class I - Microbrewery License. A Class I License shall authorize
the retail sale of (a) alcoholic liquor by microbreweries for consumption on
the licensed premises; and (b) the retail and wholesale sale of beer brewed on
the licensed premises for consumption off the licensed premises when sold in
its original package, provided the licensee has a restaurant, as that term is
defined in §
110.01 above, on the licensed premises. Video gaming on the licensed premises
is prohibited. No sale of alcoholic liquor shall be permitted in a drive-up or
drive-through or other similar facility. The annual fee for such license shall
be $900.
      (10)   Class J: Craft Mead (Meaderies) Brewery License. A Class J License
shall authorize the retail sale of (a) alcoholic liquor for consumption on the
licensed premises; and (b) the retail and wholesale sale of mead brewed on the
license's premises for consumption off the licensed premises when sold in its
original package, provided the licensee has a restaurant, as that term is
defined in §
110.01 above, on the licensed premises. No sale of alcoholic liquor shall be
permitted in a drive-up or drive-through or other similar facility. Each Class
J licensee must, prior to the issuance of this license, comply with and adhere
to all applicable federal, state and local regulations, and any other requisite
license or permit for the manufacture, packaging, storing, sale and/or
distribution of craft mead. The volume of craft mead produced on the licensed
premises shall not exceed 465,000 gallons per year. The portion of the licensed
premises dedicated to the manufacture of craft mead shall be segregated from
the remainder of the licensed premises and shall not generally be accessible to
the public. The volume of mead distributed shall not exceed 232,500 gallons per
year of the licensee's craft mead to other retail licensees provided the
licensee has obtained the required State self-distribution exemption. The
licensee shall maintain accurate records as to the total volume of craft mead
manufactured on the licenses premises and the volume of craft mead sold for
consumption off the licensed premises. Upon demand, the licensee shall
immediately produce said records to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
Video gaming on the licensed premises is prohibited. The annual fee for such
license shall be $900.
      (11)   Class K - Social Club/FraternaI or Service Organization License.
Class K License shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor by a bona
fide social club, or fraternal or service organization, organized under the
laws of the State of Illinois, and not for pecuniary profit, solely for
promotion of a common objective other than the sale or consumption of alcoholic
liquor, to its members, their guests and/or at functions officially sanctioned
by the club or organization, for consumption on the licensed premises. No sale
of alcoholic liquor shall be permitted in a drive-up or drive-through or other
similar facility. The retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption off the
licensed premises is prohibited. A Class K license shall also allow live
entertainment on the licensed premises. The annual fee for such license shall
be $600.
      (12)   Class L - Craft Distiller License (Production, Storage and Retail
Sale).  
         (a)   Class L license shall authorize the (1) on-site production and
storage of specified types of alcoholic liquor, as determined by the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner, in quantities not to exceed 15,000 gallons per
year; (2) sale of such alcoholic liquor for consumption off the licensed
premises; and (3) on-site sampling of such alcoholic liquor. Each Class L
licensee must, prior to the issuance of this license, comply with and adhere to
all applicable federal, state and local regulations, and any other requisite
license or permit for the manufacture, packaging, storing, sale and/or
distribution of craft distillers. All products produced and stored on the
licensed premises must be registered with the state liquor commission. It shall
be unlawful for a Class L licensee to sell a container of alcoholic liquor for
off-premises consumption unless the container is greater than or equal to 375
ml in volume. The production and sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the licensed premises is expressly prohibited, except this class of license
shall allow the delivery of such alcoholic liquor, without a charge, by the
licensee in limited amounts for sampling purposes only, pursuant to the
following conditions:
            1.   Sampling is permitted only in conjunction with pre-scheduled
guided tours of the licensed premises. Such tours must be for the sole purpose
of promoting the sale of the alcoholic liquor produced and stored on the
licensed premises.
            2.   All sampling shall be attended and supervised by a BASSET
certified site manager and only in a designated on-site accessory tasting room.
            3.   Licensees shall not provide more than three free samples, each
of which shall not exceed one-quarter fluid ounce, to any person in a single
day.
            4.   Sampling shall be subject to such further regulations as
deemed necessary from time-to-time by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
         (b)   No sale of alcoholic liquor shall be permitted in a drive-up or
drive-through or other similar facility. Video gaming on the licensed premises
is prohibited. The annual fee for such license shall be $900.
      (14)   Class M - Craft Beer License (Production, Storage and Retail
Sale).  
         (a)   Class M license shall authorize the (1) production and storage
of craft beer for retail sale on the licensed premises; (2) storage of craft
beer produced by regional craft brewers other than the licensee, provided such
storage is for the sole purpose of on-site sampling of the craft beer pursuant
to the terms of this chapter; (3) in-person sales of craft beer to individuals
for consumption off the licensed premises; (4) distribution of not more than
232,500 gallons per year of the licensee's craft beer to other retail licensees
provided the licensee has obtained the required State self distribution
exemption; and (5) on-site sampling of craft beer. Craft beer sold to
individuals for consumption off the licensed premises shall only be sold in
pre-packaged bottle(s), can(s), keg(s) and/or growler(s). Each Class M licensee
must, prior to the issuance of this license, comply with and adhere to all
applicable federal, state and local regulations, and any other requisite
license or permit for the manufacture, packaging, storing, sale and/or
distribution of craft beer.
         (b)   The volume of craft beer produced on the licensed premises shall
not exceed 465,000 gallons per year. The portion of the licensed premises
dedicated to the manufacture of craft beer shall be segregated from the
remainder of the licensed premises and shall not generally be accessible to the
public. The licensee shall maintain accurate records as to the total volume of
craft beer manufactured on the licensed premises and the volume of craft beer
sold for consumption off the licensed premises. Upon demand, the licensee shall
immediately produce said records to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
         (c)   Not more than 75% of the total gross square footage area of the
licensed premises shall be designated to the retail sale of craft beer.
         (d)   The production and sale of craft beer for consumption on the
licensed premises is expressly prohibited, except this license classification
shall allow the delivery of craft beer by the licensee in limited amounts for
sampling purposes only to (1) licensee's customers; and/or (2) attendees at
certified educational or instructional classes related to the production of
craft beer and sponsored by the licensee on the licensed premises, pursuant to
the following conditions:
            1.   Sampling is permitted only during the licensee's authorized
retail sale hours and may only occur on that portion of the licensed premises
dedicated to offering sampling, which area shall be segregated from the
manufacturing area of the licensed premises.
            2.   Sampling by customers shall only occur from a single bar
located on the licensed premises, with seating at the bar available for such
sampling. No other customer seating on the licensed premises shall be
permitted. The provisions of this division 2. shall not apply to sampling
related to certified educational or instructional classes.
            3.   Craft beer may be served for sampling purposes provided the
total quantity of the craft beer sampling package served to a single person is
not more than 16 ounces of craft beer.
            4.   A price may be set for such sampling.
            5.   All applicable taxes including sales tax shall be collected
and paid on all revenue realized from such sampling.
            6.   All sampling shall be attended and supervised by a BASSET-
certified site manager.
            7.   Sampling shall be subject to all other terms and conditions
regulating this license classification and to such further regulations as
deemed necessary from time- to-time by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
         (e)   No sale of alcoholic liquor shall be permitted in a drive-up or
drive-through or other similar facility. Video gaming on the licensed premises
is prohibited. The annual fee for such license shall be $900.
      (15)   Class N - Caterer, Catering Establishment, Catering Service
License. Class N license shall authorize the sale of alcoholic liquor on the
licensed premises, for consumption off the licensed premises, by a caterer,
catering establishment or catering service, as defined in § 110.01 of this
chapter (collectively a “catering business”) conducting business in the
village. This classification of license shall only be issued to persons who
demonstrate they are operating a bona fide catering business. A licensee
holding a Class N license may only serve alcoholic liquor in conjunction with
the operation of a catering business serving prepared meals, and not in
conjunction with the service of snacks, and only for consumption on the
premises where the meals are served. This license shall only permit the service
of alcoholic liquor by employees of the licensee, and only to invited guests at
the catered event. This license shall be issued only for the premises owned,
operated, or maintained by the catering business, or for a location at which
the catering business shall serve prepared meals and alcoholic liquor. Video
gaming on the licensed premises is prohibited. The annual fee for such license
shall be $600.
      (16)   Class O - Business Site License. Class O License shall authorize
the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the licensed premises,
as specified in the respective license. The retail sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption off the licensed premises, and the possession of outside alcoholic
liquor on the licensed premises, is prohibited. Class O licenses shall not be
issued for locations where the primary business conducted at the premises is
the retail sale of food, food products or alcoholic liquor. Video gaming on the
licensed premises is prohibited. A Class O license shall permit the retail sale
of alcoholic liquor by the following businesses, subject to the conditions set
forth below:
         (a)   Art studio. Authorizes the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the licensed premises at an art studio, at which public and/or
private events are held. The sale of alcoholic liquor at an art studio shall
only be to persons attending an event at the licensed premises and for
consumption during attendance at the event. It shall be unlawful for the holder
of a Class O license operating an art studio to sell, offer for sale or serve,
any alcoholic liquor before the hour of 10:00 a.m. or after the hour of 9:00
p.m. on any day, or during a time when the art studio is not open for a public
or private event. The annual fee for such license shall be $300.
         (b)   Salon (Non-Home Based/Full Service). Authorizes the retail sale
of wine and/or beer only for consumption by patrons present at a salon and
receiving advertised salon services not in a private room. The sale of wine
and/or beer at a salon is limited to no more than two glasses of wine and/or
beer per patron in a 24 hour period. The serving size for each glass of wine
shall be no more than six ounces and for each glass of beer shall be no more
than 12 ounces. It shall be unlawful for the holder of a Class O license
operating a salon to sell, offer for sale or serve any alcoholic liquor before
the hour of 10:00 a.m. or after the hour of 9:00 p.m. on any day, or during a
time when the salon is not open to the public. The annual fee for such license
shall be $300.
   (B)   Permits. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may grant one or more
of the permits identified below, subject to the applicant meeting all
requirements for issuance of the requested permit(s). A permit shall not be
issued to an applicant not compliant with Village Code, and/or county and State
public health/safety and fire prevention ordinances, statutes and/or codes.
      (1)   Event permit.
         (a)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may grant an event permit
to:
            1.   A local organization, business or group promoting an
individual public event, authorizing the temporary sale of beer, craft beer
and/or wine only, for consumption on a designated premise, as identified in the
event permit; or
            2.   Eligible licensees for up to six events per year, allowing the
sale of alcoholic liquor, as permitted by the licensee's then-current local
liquor license, at a site adjacent to the licensee's then-current licensed
premises, for purposes of the event.
         (b)   An event permit shall be valid for 72 hours from commencement of
the event for which it is issued, and shall only apply to the event, location,
dates and hours authorized by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. The Local
Liquor Control Commissioner may, in his or her discretion, extend the term of
the event permit. It shall be unlawful to hold an event without first obtaining
an event permit, or to do so in violation of the terms of the event permit. The
fee for such a permit shall be $100.
      (2)   Beer garden permit. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may grant
a beer garden permit to eligible licensees allowing the licensee to sell
alcoholic liquor, as authorized by their respective primary liquor license
classification, in a beer garden. The fee for such a permit shall be $100.
      (3)   Outdoor dining area permit. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner
may grant an outdoor dining area permit to eligible licensees, allowing the
sale of alcoholic liquor by licensees, as authorized by their respective
primary liquor license classification, in an outdoor dining area designated by
the local liquor control commissioner, and subject to the terms and conditions
of the Village Code for outdoor dining. The fee for such a permit shall be
$100.
      (4)   Restrictions for an event permit, beer garden permit and outdoor
dining area permit issued pursuant to this chapter, shall include but not
limited to, the following:
         (a)   The issuance of an event permit requires written consent of the
village's Police Agency and the local fire department to confirm compliance
with applicable state and local public health and fire prevention ordinances
and statutes, and Village Code, including but not limited to the provisions of
this chapter.
         (b)   Identification of all patrons must be checked, as with normal
business operations, prior to entry into an event, beer garden or outdoor
dining area.
         (c)   The sale, delivery or service of any alcoholic liquor shall be
limited to the premises identified in the permit. All alcoholic liquor must
stay within the identified premises at all times and any outdoor area shall be
entirely enclosed with a fence demarcating the identified premises. The
licensee is responsible for ensuring patrons do not leave the premises with
alcoholic liquor or hand alcoholic liquor to persons outside the subject
premises.
         (d)   No alcoholic liquor may be brought onto, removed from or
consumed on the premises other than as permitted under the terms and conditions
of the permit.
         (e)   The service area must be clear of customers within 30 minutes
after stopping sales. Licensees are solely responsible for the timely clearance
of all customers from the service area.
         (f)   The licensee shall maintain the premises in a neat, orderly and
safe condition, shall provide traffic control and sanitation facilities as may
be required by the local liquor control commissioner to protect the public
health, safety, welfare and morals of the residents of the village, and shall
restore the premises after expiration of the permit to its prior condition,
including the removal of trash, rubbish and garbage in accordance with Village
Code. Refuse containers at each exit of the service area for garbage and/or
unconsumed liquor must be provided by the licensee.
         (g)   All persons selling, serving or dispensing any alcoholic liquor
must be readily identifiable and have attended the course of instruction
identified in §
110.10 of this chapter prior to the event for which the permit is issued.
         (h)   All operations at an event, beer garden or outdoor dining area
shall not disturb the lawful use and quiet enjoyment of nearby properties. The
Local Liquor Control Commissioner may, in his or her discretion, modify the
hours permitted for the sale of alcoholic liquor pursuant to a permit, as
deemed necessary to protect the peace and quiet of the surrounding area.
         (i)   Live music may be played at the premises identified in the event
permit on the dates and times when the event is open and operating but shall
not occur after 10:00 p.m. or before the hour of 11:00 a.m. of any day.
         (j)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may attach such other
conditions to an event permit, outdoor beer garden permit or outdoor dining
permit as he or she deems necessary to protect the peace and quiet of the
surrounding area. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner or his or her designee
shall have the absolute right, for cause and without the necessity of a
hearing, to order the immediate cessation of such live music.
         (k)   Each licensee shall comply with all other applicable provisions
of this chapter, including but not limited to, dram shop insurance.
         (l)   With respect to the sale of craft beer by individual craft
brewers, the licensee shall, upon request of the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner, produce to the village evidence satisfactory to the village of
the licensee's relationship to each individual craft brewer represented at the
subject event.
   (C)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may impose such other
restrictions on any permit issued pursuant to this chapter as deemed
appropriate in his or her discretion, including but not limited to requiring
the presence of uniformed police officer(s) at any location for which a permit
is issued. Violation(s) of this chapter may result in the suspension or
revocation of a local liquor license/permit issued pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-8-2023; Am. Ord. 2023-07, passed 11-14-2023; Am. Ord.
2024-15, passed 10-22-2024)
§ 110.08 NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   (A)   The corporate authorities shall determine, by ordinance, the number of
licenses available in each classification. Neither the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner nor any other person or entity may issue local liquor licenses in
a number that is in excess of the number authorized by the corporate
authorities. A current schedule of the authorized number of licenses available
in each classification shall be maintained by the Village Clerk for the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner.
   (B)   Upon the alienation, sale, transfer, assignment or donation of the
business that underlies the license, to any third party or person other than
the licensee, the license shall automatically become void and the number of
available licenses in that classification as authorized by the corporate
authorities shall automatically be reduced by one.
   (C)   Any licensed establishment that has discontinued the sale or service
of alcoholic liquor or has not been open for business at least four days per
week for a period of 30 days or more shall automatically forfeit its license.
Upon forfeiture of the license, the number of available licenses in that
classification as authorized by the corporate authorities shall automatically
be reduced by one. This forfeiture shall not apply in instances where the
licensee previously notified the Village Clerk in writing of the licensee's
intent to close the licensed premises temporarily for remodeling or other
similar purpose.
   (D)   All liquor licenses issued hereunder shall be designated by the
classification letter herein provided. There shall be such number of liquor
licenses as may be from time to time determined by the corporate authorities.
There shall be in force at any time no more than:
1 Class A - Retail Sale License (Consumption On/Off Licensed Premises)
2 Class A-1 - Retail Sale License (Consumption On Licensed Premises Only)
4 Class B - Grocery Store/Supermarket; Service Station License
0 Class C - Package Store License
1 Class D - Convenience Store License
0 Class E - Limited-Service Dining License
3 Class F -Restaurant and Bar License
0 Class G- Bar and Grill License
0 Class H - Beer and Wine Retail Sales (Consumption On Licensed Premises)
0 Class I - Microbrewery License
0 Class J: Craft Mead (Meaderies) Brewery License
0 Class K-Social Club/Fraternal or Service Organization License
0 Class L - Craft Distiller License (Production, Storage and Retail Sale)
0 Class M - Craft Beer License (Production, Storage and Retail Sale)
0 Class N - Caterer, Catering Establishment, Catering Service License
0 Class O -Business Site License
 
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-8-2023; Am. Ord. 2023-07, passed 11-14-2023; Am. Ord.
2024-02, passed 2-13-2024; Am. Ord. 2024-09, passed 5-14-2024; Am. Ord. 2024-
14, passed 9-24-2024)
§ 110.09 DISPOSITION OF LICENSE FEES.
   All license fees shall be made payable to the village and submitted to the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner at the time application is made. All fees
shall be immediately remitted to the Village Treasurer. In the event the
license/permit applied for is denied, then the fee shall be returned to the
applicant. If the license is granted, then the fee shall be deposited in the
general corporate fund or in the other fund as shall have been designated by
the Village Board.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 110.10 BASSET CERTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   For all original or renewal licenses/permits issued pursuant to this
chapter, the licensee shall cause those employees, agents or representatives
who sell or serve alcoholic liquor on the licensed premises, all management
personnel working on the licensed premises, and all other employees, agents or
representatives whose job description includes the checking of identification
for the purchase of alcoholic liquor pursuant to a license/permit issued under
this chapter, to complete a state certified Beverage Alcohol Sellers and
Servers Education and Training (BASSET) program. Each licensee shall be
responsible for causing training to be administered to as many of its employees
as necessary to assure that at least one trained employee is present at the
licensed premises at all times when alcoholic liquor is being sold for
consumption on the licensed premises.
   (B)   A state certified BASSET training program shall be defined as a BASSET
program licensed by the Illinois Liquor Control Commissions (ILCC) as required
by 235 ILCS 5 § 3-12(11.1) and § 6-27 and Title 77 of Illinois Administrative
Code, Chapter XVI, Section 3500. All licensed BASSET providers shall be
required to have on file all licenses and certificates to prove current
qualifications and provide a certificate of course completion and a card to
participants as proof of completion.
   (C)   Any new owner, manager, employee, agent or representative requiring
BASSET training, shall within 90 days from the commencement of their employment
with a licensee, complete an ILCC BASSET approved seller/server training
program and shall until completion of the BASSET program work under the direct
supervision of a person who has completed BASSET training. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, for an event permit all BASSET training shall be completed prior to
the commencement of the event that is the subject of the permit.
   (D)   The licensee shall maintain copies of the certificates of completion
for each of the licensee's certified employees, evidencing the licensee's
compliance with the BASSETT training requirements of this §
110.01 and shall, at the request of any village police agency and/or the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner or his or her designee, produce such copies for
inspection. The certificate of completion shall be maintained by the licensee
in a manner that will allow inspection, upon demand, by any designee of the
state and/or local liquor control authorities.
   (E)   All costs associated with a licensee's compliance with the BASSET
training required under this chapter shall be paid by the licensee.
   (F)   Any person found to be in violation of this section shall be subject
to a fine of not less than $250 for a first offense and for subsequent offenses
a fine of not less than $500. For each violation of this section, a licensee
shall also be subject to a possible suspension or revocation of any license/
permit issued under this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 110.11 HEARINGS BEFORE THE LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may suspend or revoke any
license/permit for any violation of any provision of this chapter, or for any
violation of state law pertaining to the sale of alcoholic liquor. Upon due
investigation of any claim of violation, the Village Mayor, upon his or her
motion or upon the motion of any five residents of the village, shall have the
right to file a complaint with the Local Liquor Control Commissioner stating a
licensee within the village has been or is violating the provisions of the
Liquor Control Act, provisions of Village Code, or the rules or regulations of
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. Such complaint shall be in writing and
shall be signed and sworn to by the parties complaining. The complaint shall
state the particular provision, rule or regulation believed to have been
violated and the facts upon which that belief is based. If the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner is satisfied the complaint substantially charges a
violation and from the facts alleged there is reasonable cause for such belief,
he or she shall, within 30 days of receipt of the complaint, set the matter for
hearing and shall serve notice upon the licensee of the time and place of such
hearing and of the particular charge in the complaint. If the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner is not satisfied there is a reasonable basis for the
complaint, he or she shall respond to the residents in writing explaining why a
hearing is not necessary.
   (B)   Notice, hearing and order. Except as provided in §
110.02(B)(7) of this chapter, no liquor license/permit shall be revoked or
suspended except after a public hearing before the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall give written notice
to the licensee not less than three days prior to the hearing, affording the
licensee an opportunity to appear and defend or otherwise answer. If after a
hearing on any alleged violation the Local Liquor Control Commissioner finds
there is any violation of village ordinances or statutes of the state, or that
there was any other activity or omission of the licensee for which a penalty
should be imposed, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may fine the licensee
and/or suspend or revoke his or her license. The Local Liquor Control
Commissioner shall, within five days after such hearing, make a determination
regarding suspension, revocation and/or the issuance of a fine to the licensee.
If the Local Liquor Control Commissioner determines the license/permit should
be revoked or suspended, he or she shall state the reason(s) for such
determination in a written order of revocation or suspension and shall serve a
copy of such order within the five days upon the licensee. If the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner decides to suspend the license/permit, the term of
suspension shall not be less than one day nor more than 30 days. If in addition
to or in lieu of a license suspension or revocation, the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner imposes a fine upon the licensee, the amount of the fine shall not
be less than $50 or more than $1,000. However, any failure of a licensee to
fulfill an affirmative duty set forth in this chapter shall subject the
licensee to a mandatory minimum penalty of $100. If the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner finds the licensee to be guilty of any charges, the licensee will
be responsible for all costs incurred for a hearing before the Local Liquor
Control Commission, including but not limited to court reporter fees, witness
fees, attorneys' fees and any other fees incurred by the village. This shall be
in addition to any other penalties assessed against the licensee. Failure to
pay such costs within 30 days of notification is a violation of this section.
The remedies afforded hereunder are not exclusive, and any such sums assessed
hereunder may be collected as any other debt.
   (C)   All proceedings before the Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall be
recorded and placed in a certified official record of such proceedings taken
and prepared by a certified court reporter.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 110.12 APPEALS FROM AN ORDER OF THE LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   Any order or action of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner granting
or refusing to grant a license/permit, revoking or suspending or refusing to
revoke or suspend a license/permit or refusing for more than 30 days to grant a
hearing upon a complaint to revoke or suspend a license, may within 20 days
after notice of such order or action be appealed to the state commission. In
the event of an appeal from an order or action of the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner, the appeal to the state commission shall be limited to a review
of the official record of the proceedings before the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner. The only evidence which shall be considered in the review by said
state commission shall be the evidence found in the certified official record
of the proceedings of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. At such time as
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner receives notice of an appeal, the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner shall file with the state commission the certified
official record of the proceedings.
   (B)   Order of the state commission. A copy of the order or decision of the
state commission shall be served upon each party of record to the proceeding
before the commission. It shall be the duty of the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner to take such action as may be necessary to conform to the terms of
any order or decision of the state commission properly served upon the village.
   (C)   Review under administrative review act. All final administrative
decisions of the state liquor control commission shall be subject to judicial
review pursuant to the provisions of the Illinois Administrative Procedure Act
(5 ILCS 100/1.1 et seq.).
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 110.13 TRANSFER OF LICENSE/PERMIT.
   (A)   A license/permit shall be purely a personal privilege, valid for the
term set forth on the license/permit, unless sooner revoked as set forth in
this chapter. The license/permit shall not constitute property, shall be non-
transferrable and inalienable, and shall not be subject to attachment,
garnishment, execution, or being encumbered or hypothecated. As to a closely
held corporation, an illegal transfer will be deemed to have been attempted and
the license/permit shall become null and void if any person owning 20% or more
of the stock, transfers the stock to another person who previously held less
than 50% of the stock. As to a public corporation, an illegal transfer will be
deemed to have been attempted and the license/permit shall become null and void
if there has been a buyout, a takeover or any other transaction involving the
sale or transfer of more than 50% of the stock or assets of the corporation.
   (B)   A license/permit issued to an individual or a partnership shall cease
upon the death of the licensee or a partner of a licensee and shall not descend
by the laws of testate or intestate devolution. However, the executors or
administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee, and the trustee of any
insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when the estate consists in part of alcoholic
liquor may, upon written notice to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner,
continue the business of the sale of alcoholic liquor under the order of the
appropriate court. In such cases, the executor, administrator or trustee may
exercise the privileges of the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after
the death of decedent, or such insolvency or bankruptcy until the expiration of
the license/permit, but not longer than six months after the death, bankruptcy
or insolvency of the licensee.
   (C)   If a corporation to whom a license/permit has been issued is ordered
into receivership or files for bankruptcy, the receiver or trustee may continue
the operation of the business under the existing license under order of the
appropriate court until the expiration of the license/permit or until the
passage of six months from the date of appointment of a receiver or trustee,
whichever comes first.
   (D)   Upon the death of any person owning 5% or more of the shares in a
closely held corporation, the Local Liquor Control Commission shall be notified
and if the shares are transferred to a person who is not currently named in the
application as a shareholder, then the licensee shall apply for a new license/
permit.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 110.14 RENEWAL OF LICENSE/PERMIT; AVAILABILITY OF LICENSES/PERMITS.
   Any licensee may apply to renew a license/permit upon expiration thereof,
provided the licensee is then qualified to receive a license/permit and the
premises for which the renewal is sought is suitable for that purpose. This
renewal privilege shall not be construed as a vested right, but shall be
subject solely to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner's right of review of
the licensee's background and history of operation in the vllage. Further, the
corporate authorities shall not be prevented from decreasing the number of
licenses available in any or all classifications within the village, or the
type of permits available. If the number of licenses in any or all
classifications is decreased, the licenses may be eliminated on the basis of
seniority, so the premises holding a license the least amount of time shall be
eliminated first. However, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may, with an
accompanying written statement, eliminate licenses in those instances, and/or
permits, on the basis of quality of operation of the premises, considering such
matters as charges before the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, the state
commission or other law enforcement issues and/or on the basis of articulable
benefit or lack of benefit to the village.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 110.15 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   A license/permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall permit the sale of
alcoholic liquor only on the premises described in the application and license/
permit. The location may be changed only upon written permission issued by the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner. A change of location is within the sole
discretion of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. No change of location
shall be permitted unless the proposed new location is in compliance with the
provisions and regulations of this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 110.16 LICENSED PREMISES; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for alcoholic liquor to be sold, offered for
sale, kept for sale, displayed or advertised for sale, or delivered to any
person, except at the licensed premises, as described in the license/permit,
unless otherwise authorized by this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for anyone not having a license/permit which
provides for consumption on the licensed premises, to offer for sale, deliver
or donate any alcoholic liquor for consumption on the licensed premises, or to
permit the same to be consumed on the licensed premises.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell and/or offer for retail
sale, alcoholic liquor in other than its original package, except as otherwise
authorized pursuant to this chapter.
   (D)   No license/permit shall be issued for the sale at retail of any
alcoholic liquor within 100 feet of any church, school, hospital, home for aged
or indigent persons or for veterans, their spouses orchildren or any military
or naval station or any undertaking establishment or mortuary. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may, in his or her sole
discretion, grant an exemption to this prohibition. This prohibition shall not
apply to, regularly organized clubs, restaurants, food shops or other places
where the sale of alcoholic liquor is not the principal business, to the
renewal of a license issued prior to the effective date of this chapter for the
sale at retail of alcoholic liquor on premises within 100 feet of any church or
school, or where such church or school was established within such 100 feet of
the licensed premises after the issuance of the licensee's original license.
The distance of 100 feet shall be measured to the nearest part of any building
used for worship services or educational programs and not to the property
boundaries.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 110.17 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Unless otherwise set forth in a license classification:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee holding a liquor license to
sell, offer for sale, or deliver any alcoholic liquor in the village or to
permit any person to consume any alcoholic liquor in or on any licensed
premises between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. Monday through Friday
inclusive; between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Saturday and Sunday.
If any persons other than the licensee or the licensee's employees are on the
licensed premises after the authorized hours and alcoholic liquor is present in
any form or container, other than one that is corked or re-closed and in a
place of display or storage, it shall be presumed that a violation of this
section has occurred. All unfinished drinks shall be cleared from the bar,
tables and any other serving areas within ten minutes after closing time.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any licensed premises to remain open for
business or to admit or permit to remain, any persons other than employees on
any licensed premises during the hours within which the sale of alcoholic
liquor is prohibited. Retail establishments, restaurants and clubs may be kept
open during such hours, but no alcoholic liquor may be sold, consumed by the
public, or remain on tables or a bar during such hours. Nothing contained in
this section shall be deemed to authorize any retail establishments, restaurant
or club to remain open for business or to admit the public to the premises at
or during any hour when that premises is required to be closed by virtue of the
regulations or restrictions imposed by any other provisions of Village Code,
including but not limited to, the provisions related to business registration/
licensing.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 110.18 PEDDLING.
   It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the Village.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 110.19 COMPLIANCE WITH BUILDING, SANITARY, SAFETY AND OTHER REGULATIONS OF
THE VILLAGE.
   All licensed premises shall be kept in full compliance with all Village
Codes and regulations and applicable county regulations, including but not
limited to those relating to the storage or sale of food and sanitary and
safety conditions. The sanitary regulations of the state commission also apply
to such licensed premises unless those regulations conflict with Village Code,
county and/or state building, public health and/or fire prevention ordinances
and statutes, in which case the most stringent regulations shall apply to the
licensed premises.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 110.20 APPLICABILITY OF OTHER LAWS.
   All provisions, including the words and phrases of the Act and rules and
regulations issued by the ILCC pertaining to local control of alcoholic liquor,
as the same may be amended from time to time, are hereby incorporated into and
declared to be a part of this chapter as if expressly set forth herein. Nothing
in this chapter shall excuse or release any person from compliance with any
other requirements of Village Code, or applicable county and/or state code,
statute, ordinance, regulation or rule.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 110.21 SERVICE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or officer, associate, member,
representative, agent or employee of such licensee to:
      (1)   Serve more than one drink of alcoholic liquor at one time to one
person for consumption by that person, except to sell or deliver wine by the
bottle or carafe as a compliment to a meal served to that person.
      (2)   Serve distilled spirits in an original container.
      (3)   Sell, offer to sell or serve to any person an unlimited number of
drinks of alcoholic liquor during any set period of time for a fixed price.
      (4)   Increase the volume of alcoholic liquor contained in a drink, or
the size of a drink of alcoholic liquor, without increasing proportionately the
price regularly charged for the drink on that day.
      (5)   Encourage or permit, on the licensed premises, any game or contest
which involves drinking alcoholic liquor or the awarding alcoholic liquor as
prizes for such games or contest.
      (6)   Advertise or promote, in any form, on or off the licensed premises,
the provisions set forth in this section.
   (B)   All licensees shall maintain a schedule of the prices charged for all
drinks of alcoholic liquor to be served and consumed on the licensed premises
or in any room or part thereof.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit a licensee
from:
      (1)   Offering free food or entertainment as permitted under this
chapter.
      (2)   Including drinks of alcoholic liquor as part of a meal package.
      (3)   Selling pitchers (or the equivalent, including but not limited to
buckets), carafes, or bottles of alcoholic liquor which are customarily sold in
such manner and delivered to two or more persons at one time.
      (4)   Except as allowed pursuant to division (A)(1) above, selling a
bottle or carafe of wine, when the bottle or carafe is delivered to two or more
persons at one time.
      (5)   Negotiating a price for the purchase of drinks of alcoholic liquor
as part of a contract between a caterer, catering establishment, catering
service, restaurant and a group holding a private function.
      (6)   Increasing prices of drinks of alcoholic liquor in lieu of, in
whole or in part, a cover charge to offset the cost of special entertainment
not regularly scheduled.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 110.22 PROHIBITED CONDUCT; LICENSEES CONDUCT.
   The following conduct is prohibited on the licensed premises:
   (A)   Nudity.
      (1)   No person, while on the licensed premises and in public view, shall
engage in the following conduct:
         (a)   Expose his or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, anus or anal
cleft;
         (b)   Employ any device or covering which is intended to give the
appearance of or simulate his or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, anus or
anal cleft; or
         (c)   Appear without a fully opaque covering of his or her genitals,
pubic hair, buttocks, anus or anal cleft.
      (2)   No female person, while on the licensed premises and in public
view, shall engage in the following conduct:
         (a)   Expose that area of the human breast below the top of the
areola, except for the purpose of breastfeeding an infant;
         (b)   Employ any device or covering which is intended to give the
appearance of or simulate that area of the human breast below the top of the
areola; or
         (c)   Appear without a fully opaque covering of that area of the human
breast below the top of the areola, except for the purpose of breastfeeding an
infant.
   (B)   Fighting.
      (1)   Fighting, by patrons, inside a licensed premises or any place
outside the premises owned or leased by and used as the licensed premises, or
on any public way adjacent to the licensed premises, is prohibited. For
purposes of this section, “fighting” shall mean any threatening or touching of
another person which provokes or tends to provoke a breach of the peace. If
self-defense is offered as a defense to a charge of fighting, that defense must
be established by the presentation of clear and convincing evidence.
      (2)   Each licensee shall maintain a peaceful and orderly business
premises. This shall be accomplished by establishing and maintaining the
optimum precautions and actions that are practical to deter and prevent
fighting. This is referred to as the “maintenance of order standard.” The duty
to prevent fighting shall be applicable both to precautionary and training
matters and to the steps taken once a fight breaks out or is in imminent danger
of breaking out. If a fight does occur, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner
shall have the right to conduct a hearing to consider the circumstances
surrounding the fight and to determine the extent to which the licensee failed
to adhere to the “maintenance of order standard.” At such hearing, the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner may consider all facts, including but not limited
to the following:
         (a)   Prior incidents of reported or unreported fighting.
         (b)   Whether any fight participant was intoxicated and the extent to
which the intoxication occurred on the licensed premises.
         (c)   Whether any participant was served by the licensee after the
participant’s intoxication should have been evident to the licensee.
         (d)   Whether any participant was intoxicated and whether the licensee
had an opportunity to effect that person’s removal from the premises.
         (e)   The degree of expediency the licensee observed in calling the
police when it should have been evident that a fight was imminent.
         (f)   The actions of the licensee in reacting to the fight.
         (g)   The extent and type of training given to the licensee's
employees in such matters as recognizing intoxication, over serving and
prevention of altercations.
         (h)   Whether minors were involved in the fighting.
         (i)   The sufficiency or number of persons on duty and employed by the
licensee at the time of the fight.
      (3)   Considering all circumstances brought into evidence at the hearing,
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall make a determination of whether the
licensee violated the “maintenance of order standard.” If it is determined that
a violation occurred, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may impose any
penalty set forth in §
110.99 of this chapter up to and including license revocation.
      (4)   The licensee, his or her agent or employee on the licensed
premises, shall notify the Village's Police Agency immediately when the
licensee knows or in the exercise of ordinary judgment should know that a fight
is occurring or imminent. In addition, within 48 hours of the occurrence, the
licensee shall file with the Local Liquor Control Commissioner a report on a
form provided by the village containing the following information:
         (a)   The number of the persons involved in the fight.
         (b)   The approximate amount of alcohol consumed at the licensed
premises by each person involved in the fight.
         (c)   What action, if any, was taken by the licensee to prevent the
fight.
         (d)   What action, if any, was taken by the licensee subsequent to the
start of the fight.
         (e)   The licensee’s opinion as to why the fight occurred.
      (5)   Failure of the licensee to give immediate notification to Village's
Police Agency of a fight on a licensed premises or to file a report as required
in division (B)(4) above with the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, shall
subject the licensee to a fine of not less than $100 for a first offense, and a
fine of not less than $200 for subsequent offenses, and a possible suspension
or revocation of the licensee's local liquor license. For purposes of this
section the word “immediate” shall refer to such time as one party threatens
another or actually commences fighting with another.
   (C)   Soliciting drinks. No person shall engage in the solicitation of
drinks from patrons other than to take orders for drinks and to mix or deliver
drinks as requested by patrons.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 110.23 DRAM SHOP INSURANCE.
   Every licensee shall be required to obtain and maintain dram shop insurance
coverage and every person who owns, rents, leases as lessor or permits the
occupation of any building or premises with knowledge that alcoholic liquors
are to be sold there, or, who leases the premises for other purposes but
knowingly permits the sale of any alcoholic liquors, shall be required to carry
host liability insurance coverage for such facility. Each shall carry coverage
in an amount at least equal to the maximum insurance limits of exposure set
forth in the Act, as amended. No license/permit shall be granted hereunder to
any applicant until the applicant furnishes evidence satisfactory to the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner that he or she is covered by the required insurance
policy issued by a responsible insurance company authorized and licensed to do
business in the State of Illinois insuring the applicant and the owner of the
premises. The insurance policy or certificate of insurance providing evidence
of insurance shall indicate that the term of the insurance is of sufficient
length to encompass the period of the license/permit sought. Such insurance
policy shall provide that no cancellation or modification of the policy shall
occur without at least 30 calendar days prior written notice given to the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner. In the event of cancellation of such insurance the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall be notified immediately of the
cancellation.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 110.24 CONDUCT OF EMPLOYEES AND AGENTS.
   The following shall apply to employees and agents of licensees:
   (A)   Any act or failure to act of any employee of either the licensee or a
management company with respect to the licensed business shall be deemed to be
the act of the licensee.
   (B)   No employee or other deliverer of alcohol may consume or be permitted
to consume any alcoholic liquor on the license premises while on duty or while
performing any duties of employment.
   (C)   No person, including any employee, manager, owner or agent of the
licensee may consume alcoholic liquor on the licensed premises before or after
the licensee's permitted hours of operation.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 110.25 SALES TO MINORS; INTOXICATED PERSONS; OTHERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or officer, associate, member,
representative, agent or employee of a licensee, while on the licensed premises
to sell, deliver or give any alcoholic liquor to any of the following:
   (A)   Any person under 21 years of age.
   (B)   An intoxicated person.
   (C)   A person known to the licensee, or officer, associate, member,
representative, agent or employee of the licensee, to have been involved in a
fight at the licensed premises within the immediately preceding 48-hour period.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 110.26 REGULATIONS WITH RESPECT TO UNDERAGE PERSONS.
   (A)   Employment. Nothing in this section shall prohibit any persons under
the age of 21, but at least 18 years of age, from serving or delivering
alcoholic liquor at dining tables for consumption on the licensed premises. It
shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 to draw, pour, mix or sell
any alcoholic liquor to patrons of establishments licensed pursuant to this
chapter. Persons under the age of 21 may however deliver or carry out alcoholic
liquor in the original package and not for consumption on the licensed premises
to the vehicles of patrons after the alcoholic liquor has been properly
purchased. This section shall not be interpreted as prohibiting the employment
of persons under the age of 21 as stock persons or in other positions of a
similar character. A person at least 18 years of age, employed at a convenience
store, grocery store/supermarket or service station, may sell alcoholic liquor
in the original package and not for consumption on the licensed premises if
another employee at least 21 years of age registers the sale on the cash
register or other similar device.
   (B)   Bars and lounges. It shall be unlawful for any licensee to allow any
person under the age of 21 to be seated at a bar or remain in or be seated in a
lounge. It shall also be unlawful for a licensee to allow any person under the
age of 18, who is not an employee of the licensee, to remain on the licensed
premises between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and the opening hour(s) permitted
pursuant to §
110.17 for the respective license classification held by the licensee. This
division (B) shall apply only to lounges where seating at tables with the full
service of the establishment’s food menu is not available.
   (C)   Consumption, purchase, acceptance or possession prohibited. It shall
be unlawful for any person to whom the sale, gift or delivery of any alcoholic
liquor is prohibited because of age, to consume, purchase, accept a gift of or
have alcoholic liquor in his or her possession in the village. No person after
purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor shall sell, give or deliver
such alcoholic liquor to a person under the age of 21.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 110.27 IDENTIFICATION.
   If a licensee, in the exercise of ordinary judgment, should have reason to
believe that a sale or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is prohibited because
of the age of the prospective recipient, the licensee shall, before making such
sale or delivery, demand presentation of a form of positive identification,
containing proof of age, issued by a public officer in the performance of his
or her official duties. No person shall transfer, alter or deface any
identification card; use any identification card of another; carry or use a
false or forged identification card; obtain an identification card by means of
false information; or otherwise misrepresent his/her age for the purpose of
purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor in the village.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 110.28 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT OF PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of any premises located in
the village to knowingly allow any person under the age of 21 to remain on the
premises while in the possession of alcoholic liquor or while consuming
alcoholic liquor.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 110.29 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to allow or permit a minor
child of whom he or she is the parent or guardian to violate any provision of
this chapter. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the possession, dispensing and/or
consumption by a person under the age of 21, of alcoholic liquor in the
performance of a religious service/ceremony, or the possession and delivery of
alcoholic liquor as part of a person’s employment by a licensee under this
chapter as allowed in §
110.26 above is not prohibited.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 110.30 NOTICES; SIGNAGE.
   In addition to the signage required pursuant to §§
110.03 and
110.22 of this chapter, all licensees shall cause the following notices/signs
to be framed and displayed at all times on the licensed premises in a
conspicuous location, prominently visible to all patrons:
   (A)   Underage drinking card. A printed card approximately 8" x 10" bearing
an underage drinking warning which reads substantially as follows:
   UNDERAGE DRINKING
   IF YOU ARE UNDER 21, YOU ARE SUBJECT TO A MANDATORY FINE OF UP TO $750.00 IF
YOU PURCHASE AND/OR CONSUME ANY ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR ON THIS PREMISES. IF YOU BUY
FOR OR DELIVER AN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE TO AN UNDERAGE PERSON, YOU WILL ALSO BE
SUBJECT TO A FINE OF UP TO $750.00.
   (B)   Governmental Warning Card/Surgeon General's Warning. A printed card
approximately 8" x 10" bearing the following governmental warning which shall
read substantially as follows:
   "GOVERNMENT WARNING: ACCORDING TO THE SURGEON GENERAL, WOMEN SHOULD NOT
DRINK ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES DURING PREGNANCY BECAUSE OF THE RISK OF BIRTH
DEFECTS. IF YOU NEED ASSISTANCE FOR SUBSTANCE ABUSE, PLEASE CALL THE OFFICE OF
ALCOHOLISM AND SUBSTANCE ABUSE (OASA) AT 1-800-843-6154"
   On any licensed premises where cigarettes are offered for retail sale, a
white card bearing red letters at least 1/2 inch in height the following
Surgeon General's Warning which shall read substantially as follows:
   "SURGEON GENERAL'S WARNING: SMOKING BY PREGNANT WOMEN MAY RESULT IN FETAL
INJURY, PREMATURE BIRTH, AND LOW BIRTH WEIGHT. "
   (C)   Illinois Liquor Control Commission age verification sign. A printed
card/paper approximately 8" x 10" , which substantially states "BE PREPARED TO
SHOW PROOF OF AGE."
   (D)   Health Department Certificate. A copy of the certificate issued by the
applicable county health department evidencing the licensee’s current
compliance with all applicable regulations of that department.
   (E)   Business License. A copy of the current business license issued to the
licensee by the village.
   (F)   Occupancy restrictions. A printed card approximately 5" x 7" bearing
the occupancy restrictions applicable to the licensed premises pursuant to
state and/or local fire code regulations, codes and ordinances.
   (G)   Price list. A copy of the current price list for all alcoholic liquor
sold at the licensed premises, as required to be maintained pursuant to §
110.21(B) of this Chapter.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 110.31 VIEW FROM STREET.
   In premises upon which the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on or
off the premises is licensed, no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or
thing shall be permitted in the windows or upon the doors of the licensed
premises or inside such premises, that prevents a clear view of the interior of
the licensed premises from the street, road or sidewalk at all times; and no
booth, screen, partition, or other obstruction nor any arrangement of lights or
lighting shall be permitted in or about the interior of the premises which
shall prevent a clear view of the entire interior from the street, road or
sidewalk. All rooms where liquor is sold for consumption on the premises shall
be continuously lit during business hours by natural light or artificial white
light so all parts of the interior of the premises are clearly visible. All
window signs displayed on the licensed premises shall comply with the village's
then-current sign ordinance.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 110.32 RECORDKEEPING.
   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall keep, or cause to be kept, a
complete record of all licenses/permits issued pursuant to this chapter and
shall furnish the Village Clerk with a copy. Upon the issuance of any new
license/permit, or the suspension or revocation of any issued license/permit,
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall give written notice of such action
to the Village Clerk within 48 hours of the action.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalties to licensee. In addition to any other penalty set forth in
this chapter, every licensee upon pleading guilty or being found guilty of a
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine
of $250 for a first offense, $500 for a second offense, and $750 for a third or
subsequent offense. A separate offense shall be deemed to have been committed
on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. Each violation
of any provision of this chapter may, in addition to the imposition of a fine,
also result in the suspension and/or revocation of the license/permit issued
pursuant to this chapter. Any fines set forth in this chapter shall be assessed
regardless of the disposition by a court, and are in addition to any criminal
or civil penalties which may be sought by the village.
   (B)   Penalties to non-licensee. Unless another penalty is expressly set
forth in this chapter, any non-licensee found guilty of a violation of any
provision of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of $100 for a first
offense, $250 for a second offense and $500 for a third or subsequent offense.
A separate offense shall be deemed to have been committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues. Any fines set forth in this chapter
shall be assessed regardless of the disposition by a court, and are in addition
to any criminal or civil penalties which may be sought by the village.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-8-2023)
CHAPTER 111: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Simplified municipal telecommunications tax rate change
   
111.02   Municipal retailers occupation tax
   
111.03   Municipal service occupation tax
Contractor Registration
   
111.15   Intent
   
111.16   Definition
   
111.17   Exemption
   
111.18   Certificate of registration required
   
111.19   Application
   
111.20   Fee; bond
   
111.21   Registration; insurance
   
111.22   Registration; violation
   
111.23   Contractors (trades) licensed by the State of Illinois
Solicitation Regulations
   
111.30   Definitions
   
111.31   General prohibition
   
111.32   Specific prohibitions
   
111.33   Registration required
   
111.34   Exceptions
Hotel and Motel Tax
   
111.40   Definitions
   
111.41   Tax
   
111.42   Rules and regulations
   
111.43   Books and records
   
111.44   Tax returns
   
111.45   Collection
   
111.46   Proceeds of tax and fines
   
111.47   Suspension or revocation of license
   
111.48   Effective date
Musical Entertainment
   
111.60   License required
   
111.61   Application for license; fee
   
111.62   Place to be kept in clean condition
   
111.63   Fire exits
   
111.64   Inspection for fire hazards
   
111.65   Private anniversaries, receptions, and the like
   
111.66   Effective date
Commercial Establishment Registration
   
111.75   Intent
   
111.76   Application
   
111.77   Forms
   
111.78   Signatures
   
111.79   Fees
   
111.80   Term of business registration
   
111.81   Business registration required
   
111.82   Inspection
   
111.83   Report
   
111.84   Corrections
   
111.85   Registration suspension; revocation
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 90
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX RATE CHANGE.
   (A)   The rate of the simplified municipal telecommunications tax imposed
under the provisions of §§ 5-25 and 5-30 of the Simplified Municipal
Telecommunications Tax Act (ILCS Ch. 35, Act 636, §§ 5-25 and 5-30) is hereby
changed to 6%.
   (B)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and approval and publication in pamphlet form as required by law,
provided, however, that division (A) above shall effect for all gross charges
billed by telecommunications retailers on and after 1-1-2003. The Village Clerk
is hereby directed to file a certified copy of this section with the Illinois
Department of Revenue on or before September 2002.
(Ord. 2002-06, passed 8-27-2002)
§ 111.02 MUNICIPAL RETAILERS OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling tangible personal property at retail in this village at the rate of 3/
4 of 1% of the gross receipts from the sales made in the course of the business
while this section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5, § 8-11-1.
   (B)   Every person engaged in the business of selling tangible personal
property at retail in the village shall file all reports as required by ILCS
Ch. 35, Act 120, § 3, as amended.
   (C)   At the time the report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month.
   (D)   The Village Clerk is hereby directed to transmit to the State
Department of Revenue a certified copy of this section no later than 5 days
after the effective date of this section.
   (E)   This section shall be published within 10 days of its enactment as
provided in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-4, and shall be effective from and after
the first day of the calendar month next following the expiration of the 10-day
publication period.
   (F)   This section shall take effect on 8-1-1967.
(Ord. passed 7-16-1967)
§ 111.03 MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this municipality
in the business of making sales of service at the rate of 3/4 of 1% of the
gross receipts from any such business in accordance with the provisions of ILCS
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-5.
   (B)   Every person required to account for municipal service occupation tax
for the benefit of this municipality shall file all reports to the State
Department of Revenue required by ILCS Ch. 35, Act 115, § 9, the Service
Occupation Tax Act.
   (C)   At the time the report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed.
   (D)   The Village Clerk is hereby directed to transmit to the State
Department of Revenue a certified copy of this section no later than 5 days
after the effective date of this section.
   (E)   This section shall be published within 10 days of its enactment as
provided in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-4, and shall be effective from and after
the first day of the calendar month next following the expiration of the 10-day
publication period.
   (F)   This section shall take effect on 9-1-1967.
(Ord. passed 4-20-1967)
CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION
§ 111.15 INTENT.
   It is in the intent of this subchapter to provide for an effective means for
the village to register and regulate contractors who operate within the
village.
(Ord. M2000-8, passed 4-25-1999; Am. Ord. 2006-11, passed 4-25-2006)
§ 111.16 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRACTOR. Any person, including any corporation, joint venture,
partnership, or other legal entity, engaged in the business constructing,
altering, or repairing buildings or other structures or sidewalks, street,
pavements, and curbing, including, but not limited to: general building
contractors, cement or concrete contractors; masonry contractors; carpentry
contractors; acoustical contractors; electrical contractors; drywall
contractors; excavating contractors; fencing contractors; flooring contractors;
garage contractors; glazing contractors; heating, air conditioning and
refrigeration contractors; painting contractors; plastering contractors;
plumbing contractors; porch and deck contractors; roofing contractors; sewer
and drain contractors; sheet metal contractors; tuck pointing and cleaning
contractors; window contractors; wrecking contractors; black top sealer
contractors; landscaping contractors; swimming pool contractors; insulation
contractors; water and damp proofing contractors; elevator contractors; siding
contractors; sign contractors; but does not include any person performing as a
contractor for or on behalf of a governmental entity.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A brother, sister, mother, father, aunt, uncle, step-brother,
step-mother, step-father, half-brother, half-sister, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, brother-in-law and sister-in-law.
   GENERAL CONTRACTOR. A contractor who uses 1 or more tradesmen or
subcontractors to perform the required construction to complete any project for
which a building permit is required and has general supervisory authority such
work.
(Ord. M2000-8, passed 4-25-1999; Am. Ord. 2006-11, passed 4-25-2006)
§ 111.17 EXEMPTION.
   The following persons shall not be considered a “contractor”:
   (A)   An owner of property or his or her family member performing
construction, repair or alteration on a building or structure containing no
more than 2 residential units and who agrees to occupy the building or
structure as his or her principal residence at least 1 year from issuance of an
occupancy certificate; and
   (B)   An owner of property or his or her family member performing
construction, repairs or alterations of fences, accessory buildings, decks,
pools, roofs and other minor repairs not effecting the structural components of
the accessory building, deck, pool or roof.
(Ord. M2000-8, passed 4-25-1999; Am. Ord. 2006-11, passed 4-25-2006)
§ 111.18 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person, including any corporation, joint venture, or
partnership, to act as a contractor without having first obtained a certificate
of registration. A new certificate must be obtained upon expiration to continue
contracting work in the village.
(Ord. M2000-8, passed 4-25-1999; Am. Ord. 2006-11, passed 4-25-2006) Penalty,
see §
111.99
§ 111.19 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for the certificate of registration shall be made to the
Village Clerk.
   (B)   The application shall contain the following:
      (1)   Name of person, joint venture, partnership, corporation, or other
legal entity making the application;
      (2)   Address of the applicant, the telephone number of the applicant,
and, if a corporation, the name of the corporate officer responsible for the
daily operation of the business;
      (3)   A statement whether the applicant is a general contractor or
primarily a subcontractor, and, if the latter, the trade or trades involved. If
applicant is a general contractor with tradesmen, a list of trades and
tradesmen performing each trade will be required at the time of registration;
      (4)   A statement that the applicant is familiar with all the pertinent
Village of Diamond ordinances, codes, and regulations, including building code
applicable to the business that the applicant is engage in, and that the
applicant agrees to fully comply with the same;
      (5)   (a)   Certificate of general liability insurance in the following
amounts and manner:
            1.   Bodily injury liability - $1,00,000;
            2.   Property damage liability - $1,000,000;
            3.   Workman’s compensation as required by the Industrial
Commission of the State of Illinois; and
            4.    Business auto bodily injury liability business auto property
damage liability - $500,000 combined limit.
         (b)   If insurance expires, is cancelled, or otherwise lapses, during
term of the registration, a renewal certificate must be mailed to the Village
Clerk of the Village of Diamond, or the registration will be suspended. Any and
all insurance companies used by contractors or subcontractors to comply with
the provisions of this subchapter be a company approved and authorized to issue
such insurance by the state and must maintain a minimum A rating.
         (c)   The certificate of insurance shall contain a statement that it
cannot be terminated during the registration period except upon 60 days written
notice to the Village Clerk.
         (d)   The general contractor or subcontractor must immediately notify
the Village Clerk if his or her insurance is cancelled.
      (6)   A bond payable to the Village of Diamond in the penal sum as
outlined in §
111.20 with sureties to be approved by the Mayor and the Village Board and
filed with the Village Clerk and conditioned upon the applicant faithfully
observing all of the provisions of the building code and other ordinances and
regulations of the Village of Diamond relating to the business conducted by the
contractor and conditioned further to indemnify and hold harmless the Village
of Diamond against any cause or act upon which it may suffer or which may occur
against it; any cause of action that may be charged to or recovered by the
Village of Diamond from or by reason of any act by any such person or by any
agent or employee thereof.
(Ord. M2000-8, passed 4-25-1999; Am. Ord. 2006-11, passed 4-25-2006)
§ 111.20 FEE; BOND.
   The fee for registration shall be as provided below. The fee shall be an
annual fee which shall be paid to the Village of Diamond by the applicant in
advance of the filing of the application. The certificates of registration
issued hereunder shall be valid for 1 year from date of registration.
Class Fee Bond
Class                            Fee                          Bond
General contractor               $200                         $20,000
Electrical contractor            $100
HVAC contractor                  $100
Plumbing contractor              0 (with valid state license)
Concrete contractor              $100
Carpentry contractor             $100
Drywall/plaster contractor       $100
Excavation contractor            $100
Garage door contractor           $100
Glazing contractor               $100
Gutter contractor                $100
Insulation contractor            $100
Landscaping contractor           $100
Masonry contractor               $100
Roofing contractor               0 (with valid state license)
Sewer contractor                 $100
Swimming pool/hot tub contractor $100
Steel erection contractor        $100
Water proofing contractor        $100
Floor covering contractor        $100
Siding covering contractor       $100
Wrecking contractor              $100
Sign contractor                  $100
Satellite/antenna contractor     $100
Fence contractor                 $100
Paving contractor                $100
All other contractors            $100
 
(Ord. M2000-8, passed 4-25-1999; Am. Ord. 2006-11, passed 4-25-2006)
§ 111.21 REGISTRATION; INSURANCE.
   When it appears to the Village Clerk that an applicant is in compliance with
the requirements of §§
111.19 and
111.20, the Village Clerk shall issue the registration certificate forthwith.
(Ord. M2000-8, passed 4-25-1999; Am. Ord. 2006-11, passed 4-25-2006)
§ 111.22 REGISTRATION; VIOLATION.
   (A)    The Mayor at his or her discretion may revoke a contractor’s
registration if the contractor violates the building codes or other applicable
ordinances of the Village of Diamond. The contractor must be notified of the
intent to revoke the contractor’s registration and of the alleged violations
and the contractor will then be given 10 days from the date that notice is
given to correct the violations, to show cause why there is no violation or to
otherwise appeal in writing to the Mayor and the Village Board of the Village
of Diamond who shall conduct a hearing on the revocation.
   (B)   Notice shall be given by any of the following manners:
      (1)   Certified mail at the address provided on the contractor’s
registration;
      (2)   Personal delivery; and/or
      (3)   Posting on the site within which the contractor is working.
(Ord. M2000-8, passed 4-25-1999; Am. Ord. 2006-11, passed 4-25-2006)
§ 111.23 CONTRACTORS (TRADES) LICENSED BY THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
   Contractors licensed by the State of Illinois are exempt from the village
registration fee requirement but are subject to all other requirements set
forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. M2000-8, passed 4-25-1999; Am. Ord. 2006-11, passed 4-25-2006)
SOLICITATION REGULATIONS
§ 111.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHARITABLE. Means and includes patriotic, philanthropic, social services,
welfare, benevolent, educational, civic or fraternal, either actual or
purported.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. As defined in ILCS Ch. 225, Act 460, § 1, or a not-
for-profit organization incorporated pursuant to ILCS Ch. 805, Act 105, §
101.01 and ILCS Ch. 805, Act 110. § .01, or any other organization that has
been granted tax exempt status from the State of Illinois or the Internal
Revenue Service.
   CHARITABLE PURPOSE. As defined in ILCS Ch. 225, Act 460, § 1, and as
construed by the Illinois courts under that statute. For the purpose of this
subchapter, solicitation for a CHARITABLE PURPOSE shall include solicitation
for or on behalf of a charitable organization, as that term is defined in this
section.
   COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION. Any 1 or more of the following:
      (1)   The sale of, or seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods,
wares, merchandise, food items or services of any kind, character or
description, for any kind of consideration whatever;
      (2)   The sale of, or seeking to obtain prospective customers for any
application or purchase of insurance of any type or kind or character; or
      (3)   The sale of, or seeking to obtain subscriptions to books,
magazines, periodicals, newspapers or any other type or kind of publication.
   NONCOMMERCIAL SOLICITATION. The request, by a person directly or indirectly,
of money, credit, property, financial assistance or other thing of value on the
plea or representation that such money, credit, property, financial assistance
or other thing of value will be used for a religious or charitable purpose as
those purposes are defined in this subchapter. NONCOMMERCIAL SOLICITATION shall
also mean and include the following methods of securing money, credit,
property, financial assistance or other thing of value on the plea or
representation that it will be used for a religious or charitable purpose as
herein defined:
      (1)   Any oral or written request or exchange of religious literature for
money or other thing of value;
      (2)   The distribution, circulation, posting or publishing of any
handbill, written advertisement or publication;
      (3)   The public making of any announcement concerning an appeal,
assemblage, athletic or sports event, bazaar benefit, campaign, contest, dance,
drive, entertainment, exhibition, exposition, party, performance, picnic, sale
or social gathering to be held within the village which the public is requested
to patronize or to which the public is requested to make a contribution for any
religious or charitable purpose connected therewith;
      (4)   The sale of, offer of or attempt to sell, any advertisement,
advertising space, book, card, chance, coupon, device, magazine, membership,
merchandise, subscription, ticket or other thing in connection with which any
appeal is made for any religious or charitable purpose or where the name of any
religious or charitable person is used or referred to in any such appeal as an
inducement or reason for making any such sale, or when or where in connection
with any such sale, any statement is made that the whole or any part of the
proceeds from any such sale will go or be donated to any religious or
charitable purpose.
   NONRESIDENTIAL PREMISES. All buildings, structures, and units in the village
occupied for nonresidential purposes.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, co-partnership, corporation, company,
association or joint stock, association, church, religious sect, religious
denomination, society, organization or league, and includes any trustee,
receiver, assignee, agent or other similar representative thereof.
   POLITICAL PURPOSE. Any activity in support of bona fide candidates for
public office, or any matter related to the election, nomination, or
performance of public officials, or issues presented to the electorate at any
election.
   RESIDENCE. Every separate living unit in the village occupied for
residential purposes by 1 or more persons and contained within any type of
building or structure.
   RELIGIOUS and RELIGION. Mean and include the word “charitable” as defined
herein, but shall be given their commonly accepted definitions.
   SOLICITATION. Commercial solicitation and noncommercial solicitation, as
those terms are defined herein. A SOLICITATION shall be deemed completed when
made, whether or not the person making the same receives any contribution or
makes any sale or receives any order as contemplated herein.
(Ord. 1997-09, passed 1-7-1997; Am. Ord. 2007-20, passed 9-11-2007)
§ 111.31 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except those expressly excepted in §
113.34, to conduct solicitation within the village without having first
registered with the village to conduct commercial or noncommercial solicitation
as hereinafter provided and without having on his or her person a registration
acknowledgment executed by the Village Clerk or his or her designee during any
solicitation activities conducted within the village.
(Ord. 1997-09, passed 1-7-1997; Am. Ord. 2007-20, passed 9-11-2007)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.32 SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS.
   The following provisions shall apply to all solicitation within the village,
whether or not registration is required under the provisions of this
subchapter:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to go in or upon any residence or
nonresidential premises for the purpose of conducting solicitation if such
residence or nonresidential premises is posted with a sign bearing the words
“No Trespassing,” “No Peddlers,” “No Solicitors,” or any other similar notice
indicating in any manner that the occupants of such residence or nonresidential
premises desire not to be disturbed or to have their rights of privacy
disturbed, unless the occupant has specifically requested the solicitation.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to go in or upon any residence or
nonresidential premises for the purpose of conducting solicitation at any time
after 9:00 p.m. or before 9:00 a.m. on any day, Monday through Saturday, at any
time on Sunday or on any holiday recognized by the State of Illinois.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct solicitation on or in
any sidewalk, right-of-way, or other public property, way, or place at any time
before sunrise or after sunset on any day provided that the foregoing shall not
prohibit otherwise lawful travel.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, except those expressly excepted
in §
111.34, to conduct solicitation within the village without having registered
with the village for the commercial or noncommercial solicitation activity then
being conducted.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person conducting solicitation at any
residence or nonresidential premises to fail to leave, and to fail to cease
conducting solicitation at the residence or nonresidential premises immediately
upon receiving, from any person present at the residence or nonresidential
premises, a request to leave or cease conducting solicitation.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct solicitation in or on
any sidewalk, right-of-way, or other public property, way or place in a manner
that completely or substantially impedes the flow of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic in, on or around the sidewalk or public property, way or place. No
person conducting solicitation shall have the exclusive right to any sidewalk
or other public property, way or place, nor to establish a permanent stationary
location for such solicitation.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct solicitation from any
motor vehicle or trailer in or on any public right-of-way except as otherwise
permitted by village ordinance.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct commercial or
noncommercial solicitation with or from the occupant of any vehicle traveling
upon any street or highway within the village except as otherwise permitted
pursuant to the provisions of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1006.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any registrant to intentionally make false or
misleading statements on the registration form.
   (J)   A violation of any of the above divisions of this section is hereby
deemed to be a public nuisance.
(Ord. 1997–09, passed 1-7-1997; Am. Ord. 2007-20, passed 9-11-2007)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.33 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   The following provisions shall apply to commercial and noncommercial
solicitation:
   (A)   Registration.
      (1)   Any person intending to conduct commercial or noncommercial
solicitation activities within the village shall register with the Village
Clerk or his or her designee upon the form provided by the Village Clerk or his
or her designee. The registrant shall verify under oath all statements made by
the registrant upon or in connection with the registration. Upon submission of
a completed registration form, the Village Clerk or his or her designee shall
acknowledge receipt thereof by executing a registration acknowledgment and
giving a copy to the registrant. The registrant shall at all times during the
conduct of solicitation activities within the village carry on his or her
person a copy of the registration acknowledgment signed by the Village Clerk or
his or her designee. The registration shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The registrant’s name and current residence address, the length
of the registrant’s residence at that address, and the registrant’s business
address, if other than residence address;
         (b)   The registrant’s social security number, and the registrant’s
driver’s license number, or other official form of identification, if any;
         (c)   The name, address and telephone number of the registrant’s
current employer and the length of the registrant’s employment with that
employer, or in the case of registration for noncommercial solicitation, the
name, address and telephone number of the organization the registrant
represents, if any, and the name or names under which the registrant intends to
solicit contributions;
         (d)   A brief description of the subject matter and purpose of the
registrant’s solicitation;
         (e)   The dates for which the registrant seeks to conduct commercial
or noncommercial solicitation activities; and
         (f)   The methods by which the registrant and the organization the
registrant represents, if any, will conduct solicitation within the village.
      (2)   In addition, with respect to persons intending to conduct
commercial solicitation activities within the village, the registrant shall
provide the following information:
         (a)   The registrant’s residence address during the past 3 years, if
other than the current residence address;
         (b)   A brief physical description of the registrant, including
height, weight, and hair and eye color;
         (c)   The name and address of all the registrant’s employers during
the past 3 years, if other than the registrant’s present employer;
         (d)   The registrant or employer’s sales tax identification number;
         (e)   Information regarding the use or revocation of prior commercial
solicitation permits issued to the applicant by the village, if any, including
the date, or approximate date, of the last previous registration for commercial
solicitation permit from the village, if any;
         (f)   Information regarding prior or current violations, if any, by
the registrant of any of the provisions of this subchapter, or the solicitation
regulations of any other local, state or federal government; and
         (g)   Information regarding any prior conviction of the registrant of
a felony under the laws of the State of Illinois, any other state, or the
United States.
   (B)   Change in information. If during the pendency of any registration for,
or during the term of, any commercial or noncommercial solicitation there is
any change in any material information given in the registration information,
the registrant shall promptly notify the Village Clerk or his or her designee
in writing of the change.
   (C)   Application record. The Village Clerk or his or her designee shall
cause to be kept an accurate record of every registration for commercial and
noncommercial solicitation.
   (D)   Effective period. Registration to conduct commercial and noncommercial
solicitation activities shall be valid for a consecutive period not to exceed
10 calendar days.
   (E)   Registration fee. Each registrant shall pay to the village a non-
refundable fee in the amount of $50 prior to execution of the registration
acknowledgment by the Village Clerk or his or her designee. The registration
fee shall be paid in cash and shall be non-refundable. The registrant shall be
given a receipt upon payment of the registration fee. The registration fee
shall be waived for charitable organizations for 2 solicitation registrations
per calendar year.
(Ord. 1997-09, passed 1-7-1997; Am. Ord. 2007-20, passed 9-11-2007)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.34 EXCEPTIONS.
   Noncommercial solicitation (i) by or on behalf of a charitable organization
that is currently registered with the attorney general of the State of Illinois
and is in full compliance with the provisions of an Act to Regulate
Solicitation and Collection of Funds for Charitable Purposes, ILCS Ch. 225, Act
460, §§ 1 et seq., or (ii) for any noncommercial solicitation conducted or
sponsored by any federal, state, or local governmental unit or by any
organization conducting such noncommercial solicitation on behalf of or for the
direct benefit of the governmental unit shall be and is hereby exempt from the
requirements of §
111.32 regarding registration; provided, however, any charitable organization
expressly exempted by this section, or any person conducting solicitation on
behalf of such a charitable organization, shall give written notice of the
intent to conduct solicitation to the Village Clerk or his or her designee at
least 2 days before the charitable organization or person will conduct
solicitation within the village. Furthermore, notwithstanding anything herein
to the contrary, registration shall not be required hereunder for any
noncommercial activities or speech not involving any form of request for money
or other articles of value, or for any solicitation made on premises owned or
occupied by the person or organization on behalf of whom the solicitation is
made, or with respect to any solicitation directed solely to members of the
soliciting organization or to any solicitation made at any meeting of the
soliciting organization provided the solicitation is not made on public
property.
(Ord. 1997-09, passed 1-7-1997; Am. Ord. 2007-20, passed 9-11-2007)
Penalty, see § 111.99
HOTEL AND MOTEL TAX
§ 111.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOTEL ROOM or MOTEL ROOM. A room within a structure kept, used, or
maintained as or advertised or held out to the public to be in an inn, motel
hotel, apartment hotel, lodging house, dormitory, or place where sleeping,
rooming, office, conference, or exhibition accommodations are furnished for
lease or rent, whether with or without meals. One room offered for rental with
or without an adjoining bath shall be considered as a single hotel or motel
room. The number of hotel or motel rooms within a suite shall be computed on
the basis of those rooms utilized for the purpose of sleeping.
   OWNERS. Any person or persons having sufficient proprietary interest in
conducting the operation of a hotel or motel room or receiving the
consideration for the rental of the hotel or motel room so as to entitle the
person or persons to all or a portion of the net receipts thereof.
   PERSON. Any natural person, trustee, court-appointed representative,
syndicate, association, partnership, firm, club, company, corporation, business
trust, institution, agent, government corporation, municipal corporation,
district or other political subdivision, contractor, supplier, vendor, vendee,
operator, user of owner, or any officers, agents, employees, or other
representative acting either for himself or herself or for any other person in
any capacity, or any other entity recognized by law as the subject of rights
and duties. The masculine, feminine, singular, or plural is included in any
circumstances.
(Ord. 1994-02, passed 4-26-1994)
§ 111.41 TAX.
   (A) There is hereby levied and imposed upon the use and privilege of renting
a hotel or motel room within the Village of Diamond, Illinois, a tax of 4% of
the rental or leasing charge for each such hotel or motel room rented for each
24 hours or any portion thereof, provided, however, that the tax shall not be
levied and imposed upon any person who rents a hotel or motel room for more
than 7 consecutive days or to a person who works and lives in the same hotel or
motel.
   (B)   The ultimate incident of and liability for payment of the tax shall be
borne by the person who seeks the privilege of occupying any such hotel or
motel room, the person hereinafter referred to as a “renter.”
   (C)   The tax herein levied shall be paid in addition to any and all other
taxes and charges. It shall be the duty of the owner, manager, or operator of
every hotel or motel to act as trustee for and on account of the village, and
to secure the tax from the renter of the hotel or motel room and pay over to
the Village Treasurer the tax under procedures prescribed by the Village
Treasurer or as otherwise provided in this subchapter.
   (D)   Every person required to collect the tax levied by this subchapter
shall secure the tax from the renter at the time he or she collects the rental
payment for the hotel or motel room. Upon the invoice receipt or other
statement or memorandum if the rent given to the renter at the time of payment
the amount due under the tax provided in this subchapter shall be stated
separately on the documents.
(Ord. 1994-02, passed 4-26-1994)
§ 111.42 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Treasurer of the Village of Diamond may promulgate rules and regulations
not inconsistent with the provisions of this subchapter concerning enforcement
and application of this subchapter. The term “rules and regulations” includes,
but is not limited to, case by case determination of whether or not the tax
imposed by this subchapter applies.
(Ord. 1994-02, passed 4-26-1994)
§ 111.43 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer, or any person certified as his or her deputy or
representative, may enter the premises of any hotel or motel for inspection and
examination of books and records in order to effectuate the proper
administration of this subchapter and to assure the enforcement of the
collection of the tax imposed. It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent,
hinder, or interfere with the Village Treasurer or his or her duly authorized
deputy or representative in the discharge of his or her duties and the
performance of this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every owner to keep accurate and complete
books and records to which the Village Treasurer or his or her deputy or
authorized representative shall at all times have access, which records shall
include a daily sheet showing:
      (1)   The number of hotel or motel rooms rented during the 24-hour period
including multiple rentals of the same hotel moms where such shall occur; and
      (2)   The actual hotel or motel tax receipts collected for the date in
question.
(Ord. 1994-02, passed 4-26-1994) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.44 TAX RETURNS.
   (A)   The owner or owners of each hotel or motel mom within the Village of
Diamond shall file tax returns showing tax receipts received with respect to
each hotel and motel room during each month period commencing on 5-1-1994, and
continuing on the first day of every month thereafter on forms prescribed by
the Village Treasurer. The return shall be due on or before the thirtieth day
of the calendar month succeeding the end of the month filing period.
   (B)   (1)   The first taxing period for the purpose of this subchapter shall
commence on 5-1-1994, and the tax return and payment for the period shall be
due on or before 6-30-1994.
      (2)   Thereafter, reporting periods and tax payments shall be in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
      (3)   At the time of filing the tax returns, the owner shall pay to the
Village Treasurer all taxes due for the period to which the tax return applies.
   (C)   If for any reason any tax is not paid when due, a penalty at the rate
of 1 and 1/2 % per 36-day period, or portion thereof, from the day of
delinquency shall be added and collected.
(Ord. 1994-02, passed 4-26-1994) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.45 COLLECTION.
   Whenever any person shall fail to pay any tax as herein provided, the
corporation counsel shall, upon the request of the Village Treasurer, bring or
cause to be brought any action to enforce the payment of the tax on behalf of
the village in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1994-02, passed 4-26-1994)
§ 111.46 PROCEEDS OF TAX AND FINES.
   All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under this subchapter,
including penalties, shall be paid into the treasury of the Village of Diamond
and shall be credited to and deposited in the corporate fund of the village.
(Ord. 1994-02, passed 4-26-1994)
§ 111.47 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   If the Mayor, after a hearing held by or for him or her, shall find
any person has willfully avoided payment of the tax imposed by this subchapter,
he or she may spend or revoke all village licenses held by the tax evader.
   (B)   The owner, manager, or operator of the hotel or motel shall have an
opportunity to be heard at the hearing to be held not less than 5 days after
notice of the time and place of the hearing to be held addressed to him or her
at his or her last known place of business.
(Ord. 1994-02, passed 4-26-1994)
§ 111.48 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage, approval, and publication as provided by law.
(Ord. 1994-02, passed 4-26-1994)
MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT
§ 111.60 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any public place, kept, used, maintained, advertised, and held out to
the public as a restaurant, eating place, tavern, or any public place where
there is music, whether instrumental or by mechanical reproduction in the
place, or where there is vocal music, shall be required to have a license as
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Any premises upon which alcoholic liquor is sold or offered for sale
shall be required to state and disclose on the application for the liquor
license that instrumental, mechanical, or vocal music shall be presented on the
licensed premises and, in addition, shall state the type and nature of the
instrumental, vocal, or mechanical music. The issuance of a license, as
provided under this section, to any holder of a retail liquor dealer’s license
shall be issued at the sole discretion of the Liquor Commissioner of the
village. If he or she determines that such a license is to be issued he or she
shall so indicate in writing. Any retail liquor license shall on the face
thereof indicate whether instrumental, vocal, or mechanical music is permitted.
   (C)   In the case where there is music by mechanical reproduction, an
application shall be made as provided in §
111.61 and the license fee as provided in that section shall be paid.
   (D)   Where there is instrumental or vocal music, an application shall be
made as provided in §
111.61 and the license fee as provided in that section shall be paid.
   (E)   No license for instrumental or vocal music shall be valid except
between the hours of 12:00 p.m. on Friday until 2:00 a.m. the following
Saturday, between the hours of 12:00 p.m. on Saturday to 2:00 a.m. the
following Sunday, and between the hours of 12:00 p.m. on Sunday until 9:00 p.m.
on the same Sunday.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1983) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.61 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE.
   (A)   (1)   An application for a license permitting mechanical reproduction
of music shall be made to the Mayor and, on his or her approval of the
application, a license shall be issued and shall permit music in the place.
      (2)   The annual fee for the license shall be $25, payable with the
application for license. The failure to pay any license fee shall be cause for
automatic revocation thereof.
   (B)   An application for a license for instrumental or vocal music shall be
made to the Mayor, and on his or her approval of the application, a license
shall be issued and shall permit instrumental or vocal music on the premises.
The annual fee for the license shall be $500 payable in advance in 2
installments of $250 each. The first installment shall be due and payable with
the application for license and the second installment shall be due and payable
6 months thereafter. The failure to pay any license fee shall be cause for
automatic revocation thereof.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1983)
§ 111.62 PLACE TO BE KEPT IN CLEAN CONDITION.
   Every public place where music is furnished shall be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition for the health, safety, and comfort of its patrons and shall
provide adequate ventilation to afford clean, fresh air to its patrons at all
times.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1983) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.63 FIRE EXITS.
   Every public place where music is furnished shall provide adequate exits in
case of fire and shall at all times keep the exits free and unobstructed.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1983) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.64 INSPECTION FOR FIRE HAZARDS.
   Places shall be inspected from time to time by the Fire Marshal or any law
enforcement officer designated by the Village Commission who shall immediately
report to the Village Commission any conditions on the premises which render
the same hazardous in case of fire. The Village Commission shall thereupon by
appropriate resolution fix requirements necessary to remove the hazard. The
requirements shall immediately be communicated to and carried out by the
licensee.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1983)
§ 111.65 PRIVATE ANNIVERSARIES, RECEPTIONS, AND THE LIKE.
   This subchapter shall not apply to those places whose premises are offered
solely for the purpose of celebrating anniversaries, wedding receptions,
graduations, and similar private purposes, providing that the music, whether
mechanically reproduced or live, shall not be played of performed on the
premises earlier than 12:00 p.m. of the day of the occasion nor later than 12:
00 a.m. of the same day.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1983)
§ 111.66 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect and be in full force from and after is
passage and publication as provided by law.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1983)
COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT REGISTRATION
§ 111.75 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this subchapter to require that all businesses in the
village register to operate. The intent of the business registration program is
to provide the village with complete identifying information concerning
businesses and their owners and the owners of the premises upon which the
businesses are located in order to protect the business in case of emergency;
and to protect the public or other businesses in case of complaints alleging
code violations.
(Ord. 2003-01, passed 1-14-2003; Am. Ord. 2006-06, passed 2-14-2006)
§ 111.76 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Applicants for all registrations shall be made to the village in
writing on the form provided for that purpose: Each application shall contain:
      (1)   Business names.
      (2)   A description of the type of business.
      (3)   The location or proposed location of the business.
      (4)   Business telephone number.
      (5)   Business owner, manager, operator or responsible persons name,
residential address, and residential telephone number.
      (6)   Evidence that the required state retailer's tax, service occupation
tax, or appropriate use tax has been paid for the preceding year.
   (B)   Any person desiring to register a business shall file an application
with the village not less than 30 days prior to the time said person desires to
commence the business operation. Thereafter, prior to continued operation of
the business in subsequent years, a renewal application shall be filed not less
than 30 days prior to expiration of the registration term. In the event such
renewal application is not filed by this date, a late charge to be set by the
village shall be charged. Delinquency can result in suspension and/or
revocation of a business registration.
(Ord. 2003-01, passed 1-14-2003; Am. Ord. 2006-06, passed 2-14-2006)
§ 111.77 FORMS.
   Forms for business registration, and applications therefore, shall be
prepared and kept on file by the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 2003-01, passed 1-14-2003; Am. Ord. 2006-06, passed 2-14-2006)
§ 111.78 SIGNATURES.
   Each registration issued shall bear the signatures of the Mayor, the Village
Clerk and/or the Building Inspector in the absence of any provision to the
contrary.
(Ord. 2003-01, passed 1-14-2003; Am. Ord. 2006-06, passed 2-14-2006)
§ 111.79 FEES.
   The annual fee for a business registration shall be $25 and shall be paid in
advance to the Village Clerk at the time of filing of the application.
(Ord. 2003-01, passed 1-14-2003; Am. Ord. 2006-06, passed 2-14-2006)
§ 111.80 TERM OF BUSINESS REGISTRATION.
   A business registration shall be valid until December 31of the calendar year
in which the registration was issued.
(Ord. 2003-01, passed 1-14-2003; Am. Ord. 2006-06, passed 2-14-2006)
§ 111.81 BUSINESS REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in any business activity in the village without
having registered a business.
(Ord. 2003-01, passed 1-14-2003; Am. Ord. 2006-06, passed 2-14-2006) Penalty,
see §
111.99
§ 111.82 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a business registration, the
Building Inspector shall provide the applicant 5 days notice to schedule an
inspection of the new business premises.
   (B)   The Building Inspector will conduct an inspection and make a
determination whether the business premises complies with the provisions of the
Building Codes and Zoning Ordinance of the village as set forth for existing
structures.
      (1)   Continuation of existing use. The legal use and occupancy of any
structure existing on the date of adoption of this subchapter, or for which it
has been heretofore approved, shall be permitted to continue as is deemed
necessary by the Building Inspector for the general safety and welfare of the
occupants and the public.
      (2)   Change of use. It shall be unlawful to make any change in the use
or occupancy of any structure or portion thereof which would subject it to any
special provisions of this subchapter without the approval of the Building
Inspector, and in the Building Inspectors opinion that the structure meets the
intent of the provisions as of the law(s) governing building construction for
the proposed new use and occupancy, and that the change of use does not result
in any greater hazard to the general public safety or welfare.
(Ord. 2003-01, passed 1-14-2003; Am. Ord. 2006-06, passed 2-14-2006) Penalty,
see §
111.99
§ 111.83 REPORT.
   Following the inspection, the Building Inspector shall provide the applicant
a written report listing any code violations and establishing a timetable for
compliance and correction of each violation.
(Ord. 2003-01, passed 1-14-2003; Am. Ord. 2006-06, passed 2-14-2006)
§ 111.84 CORRECTIONS.
   No registration shall be issued unless and until any code violations that
constitute a danger to the public health, safety, and general welfare are
corrected. Registration may be issued if minor code violations exist and a
timetable for their correction is in place, which is acceptable to the village.
If the timetable established for correction of code violations has expired
without the corrections as determined by the Building Inspector during a
follow-up inspection, the respective business registration shall be subject to
suspension or revocation.
(Ord. 2003-01, passed 1-14-2003; Am. Ord. 2006-06, passed 2-14-2006)
§ 111.85 REGISTRATION SUSPENSION; REVOCATION.
   (A)   When the condition of any business premises constitutes a clear and
present danger to the public health, safety, or general welfare, the Mayor,
upon recommendations by the Building Inspector, shall be authorized to suspend
the business registration and/or close the premises until the danger no longer
exists.
   (B)   Within 7 days after a business registration is suspended and/or a
premises order closed, the Mayor and Village Board shall schedule a hearing for
the purpose of determining whether the registration should be revoked.
   (C)   The Mayor and Village Board shall conduct a hearing for the purpose of
determining whether a registration should be revoked in accordance with the
following guidelines:
      (1)   Notice of the hearing for a revocation of a registration shall be
given in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and
the time and place of the hearing. The notice may be hand-delivered or mailed
by certified mail return receipt requested to the registrant at his or her last
known address at least 5 days prior to the date of the hearing.
      (2)   An attorney designated by the Mayor and Village Board may represent
the village during the hearing. The registrant shall be permitted counsel and
have the right to submit evidence and cross-examine any witnesses. The Mayor
shall serve as the hearing officer and shall render the decision, with the
advice and counsel of the Village Board. The decision shall be final.
(Ord. 2003-01, passed 1-14-2003; Am. Ord. 2006-06, passed 2-14-2006)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provisions of §§
111.15 through
111.23 shall, for each offense, be subject to a fine of not less than $100 nor
more than $750. Each day that an offense occurs shall be deemed as a separate
incident for the purposes of assessing a fine. The village shall have the right
to file legal action to enjoin activities which are in violation of §§
111.15 through
111.23.
(Ord. M2000-8, passed 4-25-1999; Am. Ord. 2006-11, passed 4-25-2006)
   (C)   Any person found guilty of committing a violation of §§
111.30 through
111.34 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $750, and
each separate violation hereof shall be considered a separate offense
hereunder. Further, the village may seek and obtain injunctive relief against
persons violating the terms and conditions of §§
111.30 through
111.34 and shall not otherwise be limited in its remedies to enforce the
provisions hereof.
   (D)   (1)   Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting,
neglecting, or refusing to comply with, or resisting or opposing the
enforcement of, any of the provisions of §§
111.40 through
111.48, except when otherwise specifically provided, upon conviction thereof
shall be punished by a fine of not less than $200 nor more than $750 for the
first offense and not less than $300 nor more than $750 for the second and each
subsequent offense in any 180-day period. A separate and distinct offense shall
be regarded as committed each day upon which the period shall continued any
such violation, or permit any such violation to exist after notification
thereof
      (2)   The purpose of imposing the above penalties is to ensure the
integrity of the collection process established pursuant to §§
111.40 through
111.48.
(Ord. 1994-02, passed 4-26-1994)
   (E)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
111.60 through
111.66 shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $750 for each offense;
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1983)
   (F)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
111.75 through
111.85 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $100, nor more than $800.
Each day that a violation continues or occurs after due notice has been served,
in accordance with the terms and provisions hereof, shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Ord. 2003-01, passed 1-14-2003; Am. Ord. 2006-06, passed 2-14-2006; Am. Ord.
2007-20, passed 9-11-2007)
CHAPTER 112: CABLE TELEVISION REGULATIONS
Section
Cable and Video Customer Protection Law
   
112.01   Adoption; amendments
   
112.02   Customer credits
   
112.03   Enforcement
Cable/Video Service Provider Fee and PEG Access Support Fee
   
112.15   Definitions
   
112.16   Cable/video service provider fee imposed
   
112.17   PEG access support fee imposed
   
112.18   Applicable principles
   
112.19   No impact on other taxes due from holder
   
112.20   Audits of cable/video service provider
   
112.21   Late fees/payments
 
   
112.99   Penalty
CABLE AND VIDEO CUSTOMER PROTECTION LAW
§ 112.01 ADOPTION; AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Adoption. The regulations of ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 70-501 are hereby
adopted by reference and made applicable to the cable or video providers
offering services within the village’s boundaries.
   (B)   Amendments. Any amendment to the Cable and Video Customer Protection
Law (ILCS Ch.220, Act 5, § 70-501) that becomes effective after the effective
date of this subchapter shall be incorporated into this subchapter by reference
and shall be applicable to cable or video providers offering services within
the municipality’s boundaries. However, any amendment that makes its provisions
optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated into this
subchaper by reference without formal action by the corporate authorities of
the village.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 4-22-2008)
§ 112.02 CUSTOMER CREDITS.
   The village hereby adopts the schedule of customer credits for violations.
Those credits shall be as provided for in the provisions of ILCS Ch. 220, Act
5, § 70-501(s) and applied on the statement issued to the customer for the next
billing cycle following the violation or following the discovery of the
violation. The cable or video provider is responsible for providing the credits
and the customer is under no obligation to request the credit.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 4-22-2008)
§ 112.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   The village does hereby pursuant to law declare its intent to enforce all of
the customer service and privacy protection standards of the Cable and Video
Customer Protection Law with respect to complaints received from residents
within the village.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 4-22-2008)
CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE AND PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE
§ 112.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CABLE SERVICE. As defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6).
   COMMISSION. The Illinois Commerce Commission.
   GROSS REVENUES. 
      (1)   All consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property, and in-kind contributions received by the
holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable service or
video service within the holder’s cable service or video service area within
the village.
      (2)   Include the following:
         (a)   Recurring charges for cable or video service.
         (b)   Event-based charges for cable service or video service,
including, but not limited to, pay-per-view and video-on-demand charges.
         (c)   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment.
         (d)   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including but not limited to activation, installation, and
repair charges.
         (e)   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service
or video service, including but not limited to service order and service
termination charges.
         (f)   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges,
and other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent
payments.
         (g)   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder’s network to provide cable service or video service within the
village. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the
village divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant
regional or national compensation arrangement.
         (h)   Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the
operation of the holder’s network to provide cable service or video service
with respect to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the holder’s network,
such as a “home shopping” or similar channel, subject to division (2)(i) of
this definition.
         (i)   In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled
or integrated functionally with other services, capabilities, or applications,
the portion of the holder’s revenue attributable to the other services,
capabilities, or applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the
holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business.
         (j)   The service provider fee permitted by ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-
801(b).
      (3)   GROSS REVENUES do not include any of the following:
         (a)   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad
debt, subject to ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-801(c)(1)(vi).
         (b)   Refunds, discounts, or other price adjustments that reduce the
amount of gross revenues received by the holder of the state-issued
authorization to the extent the refund, rebate, credit, or discount is
attributable to cable service or video service.
         (c)   Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable service or video service,
including, without limitation, revenue received from telecommunication
services, information services, or the provision of directory or internet
advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement, and
electronic publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder to
noncable service or nonvideo service in accordance with the holder’s books and
records and records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable
laws, rules, regulations, standards, or orders.
         (d)   The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which
the purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the
purchaser’s subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that
it will resell the service within the village and pay the fee permitted by ILCS
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-801(b) with respect to the service.
         (e)   Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the
subscribers or the transaction by a city, state, federal, or any other
governmental entity and collected by the holder of the state-issued
authorization and required to be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales
and use taxes.
         (f)   Security deposits collected from subscribers.
         (g)   Amounts paid by subscribers to “home shopping” or similar
vendors for merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part
of the cable service or video service.
      (4)   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of gross revenues to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-801(b) which would
otherwise be paid by the cable service or video service.
   HOLDER. A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the Commission pursuant to ILCS Ch. 220,
Act 5, § 21-401.
   PEG. Public, education and governmental.
   PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE. The amount paid under this subchapter and ILCS Ch.
220, Act 5, § 21-801(d) by the holder to the village for the service areas
within its territorial jurisdiction.
   SERVICE. The provision of cable service or video service to subscribers and
the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the Commission
pursuant to ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-401.
   SERVICE PROVIDER FEE. The amount paid under this subchapter and ILCS Ch.
220, Act 5, § 21-801 by the holder to a village for the service areas within
its territorial jurisdiction.
   VIDEO SERVICE. Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and which
is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the public
right-of-way without regard to delivery technology, including internet protocol
technology. This definition does not include any video programming provided by
a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 U.S.C. § 332(d) or any video
programming provided solely as part  of, and via, service that enables users to
access content, information, electronic mail, or other services offered over
the public internet.
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 4-22-2008)
§ 112.16 CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE IMPOSED.
   (A)   Fee imposed. A fee is hereby imposed on any holder providing cable
service or video service in the village.
   (B)   Amount of fee. The amount of the fee imposed hereby shall be 5% of the
holder’s gross revenues. The fee can be no greater than the fee paid to the
village by an incumbent cable operator providing cable service.
   (C)   Notice to the village. The holder shall notify the village at least 10
days prior to the date on which the holder begins to offer cable service or
video service in the village.
   (D)   Holder’s liability. The holder shall be liable for and pay the service
provider fee to the village. The holder’s liability for the fee shall commence
on the first day of the calendar month following 30 days after receipt of the
ordinance adopting this subchapter by the holder. That ordinance shall be sent
by mail, postage prepaid, to the address listed on the holder’s application
notice sent pursuant to ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-401(b)(6) to the village.
   (E)   Payment date. The payment of the service provider fee shall be due on
a quarterly basis, 45 days after the close of the calendar quarter. If mailed,
the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each payment shall
include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of the fee.
   (F)   Exemption. The fee hereby imposed does not apply to existing cable
service or video service providers that have an existing franchise agreement
with the village in which a fee is paid.
   (G)   Credit for other payments. An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-301(c)
with credit for prepaid franchise fees under that agreement may deduct the
amount of such credit from the fees that operator owes under division (B)
above.
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 4-22-2008)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.17 PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE IMPOSED.
   (A)   PEG fee imposed. A PEG access support fee is hereby imposed on any
holder providing cable service or video service in the village in addition to
the fee imposed pursuant to §
112.16.
   (B)   Amount of fee. The amount of the PEG access support fee imposed hereby
shall be 1% of the holder’s gross revenues or, if greater, the percentage of
gross revenues that incumbent cable operators pay to the village or its
designee for PEG access support in the village.
   (C)   Payment. The holder shall pay the PEG access support fee to the
village or to the entity designated by the village to manage PEG access. The
holder’s liability for the PEG access support fee shall commence on the date
set forth in §
112.16(D).
   (D)   Payment due. The payment of the PEG access support fee shall be due on
a quarterly basis, 45 days after the close of the calendar quarter. If mailed,
the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each payment shall
include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of the fee.
   (E)   Credit for other payments. An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-301(c)
shall pay, at the time they would have been due, all monetary payments for PEG
access that would have been due during the remaining term of the agreement had
it not been terminated pursuant to that section. All payments made by an
incumbent cable operator pursuant to the previous sentence may be credited
against the fees that the operator owes under division (B) above.
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 4-22-2008)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.18 APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES.
   All determinations and calculations under this subchapter shall be made
pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles.
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 4-22-2008)
§ 112.19 NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to exempt a holder
from any tax that is or may later be imposed by the village including any tax
that is or may later be required to be paid by or through the holder with
respect to cable service or video service. A state-issued authorization shall
not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the
village’s simplified municipal telecommunications tax or any other tax as it
applies to any telephone service provided by the holder. A state-issued
authorization shall not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to
payment of the local unit of government’s 911 or E911 fees, taxes or charges.
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 4-22-2008)
§ 112.20 AUDITS OF CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER.
   (A)   Audit requirement. The village will notify the holder of the
requirements it imposes on other cable service or video service providers to
submit to an audit of its books and records. The holder shall comply with the
same requirements the village imposes on other cable service or video service
providers in its jurisdiction to audit the holder’s books and records and to
recompute any amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the
village. If all local franchises between the village and cable operator
terminate, the audit requirements shall be those adopted by the village
pursuant to the Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights Act, ILCS Ch. 50,
Act 45, §§ 1 et seq. No acceptance of amounts remitted should be construed as
an accord that the amounts are correct.
   (B)   Additional payments. Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid within 30 days after the village’s submission of an invoice for the sum.
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 4-22-2008)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.21 LATE FEES/PAYMENTS.
   All fees due and payments which are past due shall be governed by ordinances
adopted by this village pursuant to the Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of
Rights Act, ILCS Ch. 50, Act 45, §§ 1 et seq.
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 4-22-2008)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The village, pursuant to ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 70-501(r)(1), does
hereby provide for a schedule of penalties for any material breach of the Cable
and Video Customer Protection Law by cable or video providers in addition to
the penalties provided in the law. The monetary penalties shall apply on a
competitively neutral basis and shall not exceed $750 for each day of the
material breach, and shall not exceed $25,000 for each occurrence of a material
breach per customer.
   (B)   (1)   MATERIAL BREACH means any substantial failure of a cable or
video provider to comply with service quality and other standards specified in
any provision of the law.
      (2)   The village shall give the cable or video provider written notice
of any alleged material breaches of the law and allow the provider at least 30
days from the receipt of the notice to remedy the specified material breach.
      (3)   A material breach, for the purposes of assessing penalties, shall
be deemed to occur for each day that a material breach has not been remedied by
the cable or video service provider after the notice in division (A)(2)(b)
above.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 4-22-2008)
CHAPTER 113: VENDING MACHINES
Section
   
113.01   Vending machine defined
   
113.02   License required
   
113.03   Application; outdoor vending machines
   
113.04   License fee
   
113.05   Payment of license fee
   
113.06   License tag: issuance, contents, display
   
   
113.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Vending machine license application
§ 113.01 VENDING MACHINE DEFINED.
   As used in this chapter, the term VENDING MACHINE shall mean a device that
dispenses a product or service, either for sale, rent or free, and that is
activated entirely by the receiver of the product or service, including ice
machines, food/drink machines, and DVD kiosks. Newspaper racks, telephones,
coin-operated amusement devises, juke boxes and fixed automatic teller machines
are not regulated by this chapter.
(Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-23-2011)
§ 113.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate, install or maintain within the village any vending
machine without a license therefor; nor shall any person allow to be installed,
operated or maintained by one other than a licensee hereunder, any such vending
machine.
(Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-23-2011)
§ 113.03 APPLICATION; OUTDOOR VENDING MACHINES.
   (A)   Application. Application for a vending machine license shall be made
to the Village Building Department. Such application shall be in the form of
the vending machine license application provided in the
Appendix A to this chapter.
   (B)   Outdoor vending machines. The village prefers that vending machines be
located inside existing buildings. For approval, outdoor vending machine
applications must demonstrate the following:
      (1)   Vending machines shall be located to minimize visibility to the
street. The back of the vending machine shall be positioned against a building
wall or exterior masonry screen wall.
      (2)   Location shall be coordinated with the architecture of the building
so as to not cover up windows, landscape planters and/or decorative trim.
      (3)   No outdoor vending machines shall be placed in a location so as to
impede pedestrian access, block parking areas or create an unsafe condition. A
minimum of 36 inches of clearance is required for all pedestrian ways in front
of a vending machine.
      (4)   Public access to outdoor vending machines shall meet the state and
federal ADA accessibility requirements.
      (5)   Outdoor vending machines should be externally illuminated for
security. Internal illumination of the sign portion of the vending machine is
prohibited. The product display area of the vending machine may be internally
illuminated as long as it does not appear as advertising.
      (6)   Outdoor vending machine installations that require new electrical
or plumbing require a building permit.
      (7)   A maximum of 2 vending machines are permitted for businesses with
exterior property frontages of up to 100 feet. No more than 3 outdoor vending
machines are permitted per any location.
      (8)   Outdoor vending machines shall not be installed in public way or
immediately adjacent to public way so as to require customers to stand in
public way to use machine.
      (9)   Outdoor vending machines shall not be located adjacent to any wall
that is lower than the height of the machine.
      (10)   All outdoor vending machines selling entertainment media must
comply with adult use business and zoning regulations.
      If the applicant cannot comply with the above standards, an outdoor
vending machine license will not be issued.
(Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-23-2011)
§ 113.04 LICENSE FEE.
   An annual license fee of $50 is hereby imposed upon each vending machine.
(Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-23-2011)
§ 113.05 PAYMENT OF LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The license fee prescribed in this chapter shall be paid in advance at
the time of application for all machines then listed.
   (B)   Fees are payable by the owner or person in control of the premises on
which the machine is located.
(Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-23-2011)
§ 113.06 LICENSE TAG: ISSUANCE, CONTENTS, DISPLAY.
   At the time of original application, the Village Building Department shall
assign to each licensee a license number that the licensee shall display, in
addition to his or her name and address, on each machine. The tag shall bear
the words “Diamond License, Vending No.            ," and shall show the year
for which the license fee is paid.
(Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-23-2011)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall, for each offense,
be subject to a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $750. Each day that an
offense occurs shall be deemed as a separate incident for the purposes of
assessing a fine. The village shall have the right to file legal action to
enjoin activities that are in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-23-2011)
APPENDIX A: VENDING MACHINE LICENSE APPLICATION
Village of Diamond
1750 East Division Street
Diamond, Illinois 60416
                                                                                                                                                              
Vending Machine License Application
BUSINESS INFORMATION: (Where machines will be located)
Name:
                                                                                        
Phone #:                                           
Address:
                                                                                                                                              
City:
                                                                                     
State:             Zip Code:                        
VENDING MACHINE COMPANY INFORMATION:
Name:
                                                                                        
Phone #:                                           
Address:
                                                                                                                                              
City:
                                                                                     
State:             Zip Code:                        
                                                                                                                                                              
Vending Machines to be placed:              Indoors              Outdoors*
*See reverse side of application for regulations for outdoor vending machines.
Site plan showing location of vending machine(s) must be submitted with
application.
                                                                                                                                                              
Vending Machines: Number of vending machines               
                                                                                                                                                              
TOTAL FEES DUE $                          
                                                                              
                   Owner or Agent for Owner
                                                                                                                                                              
Per Ordinance No. 2011-08, vending machine fees are $50 per vending machine.
PAYMENT DUE IMMEDIATELY – ALL FEES ARE ANNUAL
Regulations of Village of Diamond for Outdoor Vending Machines
All outdoor vending machines should apply for a license through the Building
Department using the same process as existing vending machines.
Newspaper racks, telephones and automated teller machines (ATMs) are not
considered outdoor vending machines.
The Village of Diamond prefers that vending machines be located inside existing
buildings. For approval, outdoor vending machine applications must demonstrate
the following:
   1.   Vending machines shall be located to minimize visibility to the street.
The back of the vending machine shall be positioned against a building wall or
exterior masonry screen wall.
   2.   Location shall be coordinated with the architecture of the building so
as to not cover up windows, landscape planters and/or decorative trim.
   3.   No outdoor vending machines shall be placed in a location so as to
impede pedestrian access, block parking areas or create an unsafe condition. A
minimum of 36 inches of clearance is required for all pedestrian ways in front
of a vending machine.
   4.   Public access to outdoor vending machines shall meet the state and
federal ADA accessibility requirements.
   5.   Outdoor vending machines should be externally illuminated for security.
Internal illumination of the sign portion of the vending machine is prohibited.
The product display area of the vending machine may be internally illuminated
as long as it does not appear as advertising.
   6.   Outdoor vending machine installations that require new electrical or
plumbing require a building permit.
   7.   A maximum of 2 vending machines are permitted for businesses with
exterior property frontages of up to 100 feet. No more than 3 outdoor vending
machines are permitted per any location.
   8.   Outdoor vending machines shall not be installed in public way or
immediately adjacent to public way so as to require customers to stand in
public way to use machine.
   9.   Outdoor vending machines shall not be located adjacent to any wall that
is lower than the height of the machine.
   10.   All outdoor vending machines selling entertainment media must comply
with adult use business and zoning regulations.
If the petitioner cannot comply with the above standards, an outdoor vending
permit will not be issued.
(Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-23-2011)
CHAPTER 114: SALE OF TOBACCO, TOBACCO PRODUCTS, ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE OR
ELECTRONIC CIGARETTES
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   License type and requirements
   
114.03   Limitation on number of licenses
   
114.04   Application for license
   
114.05   Ineligible applicants
   
114.06   Term of license
   
114.07   Nontransferability of license
   
114.08   Proximity to certain institutions
   
114.09   License fee
   
114.10   Responsibility for agents and employees
   
114.11   Sales to and by minors
   
114.12   Possession of tobacco or tobacco products by minors
   
114.13   Vending machines
   
114.14   Certain free distributions prohibited
   
114.15   Delivery of tobacco or electronic smoking devices
   
114.16   Denial of license or renewal
   
114.17   Review
   
114.18   Renewal of license
   
114.19   Suspension and revocation of license
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS. 
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY TOBACCO SALES. A business establishment in which less than 25% of
the revenues of the establishment are generated from the sale of tobacco,
alternative nicotine products, e- cigarettes or vaping devices and smoking
devices.
   ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT. A product or device not consisting of or
containing tobacco that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting,
sniffing, or by any other means. ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS exclude
cigarettes, smokeless tobacco, or other tobacco products as these terms are
defined herein and any product approved by the United States Food and Drug
Administration as a non-tobacco product for sale as a tobacco cessation
product, as a tobacco dependence product, or for other medical purposes, and is
being marketed and sold solely for that approved purpose.
   E-CIGARETTE OR VAPING DEVICE.
      (1)   Any device that employs a battery or other mechanism to heat a
solution or substance to produce a vapor or aerosol intended for inhalation;
      (2)   Any cartridge or container of a solution or substance intended to
be used with or in the device or to refill the device;
      (3)   Any solution or substance, whether or not it contains nicotine
intended for use in the device;
      (4)   E-CIGARETTE OR VAPING DEVICE includes, but is not limited to, any
electronic smoking device, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic
pipe, electronic hookah pipe, vape pen, product vaporizer, atomizer or similar
product or device, any components or parts that can be used to build the
product or device, and any component, part, or accessory of a device used
during the operation of the device, even if the part or accessory was sold
separately. ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE does not include: cigarettes as defined in
Section 1 of the Cigarette Tax Act; tobacco product and alternative nicotine
product as defined in this section; any product approved by the United States
Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation product, as a
tobacco dependence product, or for other medical purposes, and is being
marketed and sold solely for that approved purpose; any asthma inhaler
prescribed by a physician for that condition and is being marketed and sold
solely for that approved purpose.
   LOCAL TOBACCO CONTROL COMMISSIONER. The Village Mayor shall service as the
Local Tobacco Control Commissioner and shall be charged with the administration
of this chapter.
   NICOTINE. Any form of the chemical nicotine, including any salt or complex,
regardless of whether the chemical is naturally or synthetically derived.
   PRIMARY TOBACCO SALES. A business in which 25% or more of the revenues of
the establishment are generated from the sale of tobacco, tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, e-cigarettes or tobacco accessories. The sale of
other products is incidental to the sale of tobacco, alternative nicotine
products, e-cigarettes or tobacco accessories.
   SMOKING DEVICE. Pipes, hookahs or other devices that can be used to smoke
tobacco or cannabis. Smoking devices do not include cigarettes or cigars.
   TOBACCO. Any product containing or made from tobacco that is intended for
human consumption, whether smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed, dissolved,
inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means, including, but not
limited to, cigarettes, cigars, little cigars, chewing tobacco, pipe tobacco,
snuff, snus, and any other smokeless tobacco product which contains tobacco
that is finely cut, ground, powdered, or leaf and intended to be placed in the
oral cavity. TOBACCO includes any component, part, or accessory of a tobacco
product, whether or not sold separately. TOBACCO does not include: an
alternative nicotine product as defined in this section; or any product that
has been approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as
a tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco dependence product, or for other
medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely for that approved
purpose.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic self-service device
operated by insertion of money, tokens or other form of consideration and
dispenses electronic cigarettes, tobacco products and/or tobacco accessories.
(Ord. 2024-17, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 114.02 LICENSE TYPE AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall sell, solicit, receive an order for, keep or offer for
sale, or keep with the intention of selling any tobacco, alternative nicotine
product, e-cigarette, vaping device or smoking device without first obtaining a
tobacco license from the village. A separate tobacco license shall be required
for each location where tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, electronic cigarettes, vaping devices or smoking devices are sold.
   (B)   Tobacco license classification. Tobacco licenses shall have two
classifications. It shall be at the sole discretion of the Local Tobacco
Control Commissioner to determine the classification licenses to issue based on
the operation of the business.
      (1)   Class A Tobacco license: Authorizes on-premises accessory tobacco
sales.
      (2)   Class B Tobacco license: Authorizes on-premises primary tobacco
sales.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of each licensee to be informed
regarding all laws, federal, state or local, applicable to tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products or e-cigarettes, vaping
devices or smoking device retailing.
      (1)   A license issued contrary to this chapter, contrary to any other
law, or on the basis of false or misleading information supplied by a
proprietor shall be revoked pursuant to the applicable provisions of this
chapter.
      (2)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to grant any person
obtaining and maintaining a tobacco license any status or right other than a
limited, conditional privilege to act as a tobacco, alternative nicotine
product, e-cigarette, vapor device or smoking device retailer at the location
identified on the face of the license. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to vest in any person obtaining and maintaining a tobacco license any
status or right to act as a tobacco, alternative nicotine product, e-
cigarette, vapor device or smoking device retailer in contravention of any
applicable law.
   (D)   Any licensee who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or
state law, any misdemeanor in which tobacco, alternative nicotine products,
vapor products or electronic smoking devices were involved or any violation
listed in §
114.05(F) below shall notify the Local Tobacco Control Commissioner of such
conviction. Such notification shall be made within 30 days after the sentencing
for the conviction.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any employee or agent of any
such licensee to sell, deliver, or distribute any product which contains
tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) or any synthetic cannabinoid.
   (F)   Establishments defined herein shall be subject to periodic inspections
by the Local Tobacco Control Commissioner to ensure continual compliance with
the terms of this chapter.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful to admit or to allow to remain on the premises
persons under 21 years of age. Signs shall be clearly posted and visible prior
to entry of the establishment and upon entry that minors are prohibited.
   (H)   Except as otherwise permitted by this chapter, or by the applicable
provisions of the Smoke Free Illinois Act, ILCS Ch. 410, Act 82, §§ 1 et seq.,
all licensees shall prohibit the use of tobacco products within any premises
licensed under this chapter. Licensees exempt from the preceding sentence
include licensees licensed and commencing operation after January 1, 2008, but
only when located in a freestanding structure occupied solely by the licensee,
and where smoke, vapors and like emissions are prevented from migrating into
other enclosed spaces or places where smoking is prohibited.
   (I)   No licensee shall operate any licensed business or be eligible for
licensure without demonstrating that the licensee owns the licensed premises or
holds the legal right to use and occupy the premises from which the licensed
business will operate for the entire license term.
   (J)   A license is valid only for the person(s) or business entity and
location specified in the license application. A license cannot be transferred
to a different location within the village.
   (K)   (1)   All license holders must require all employees and agents of the
licensed business to sign a document certifying that they are aware of the
following:
         (a)   It is illegal to sell tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products or electronic cigarettes to persons under the age of 21;
         (b)   Identification must be checked on all persons purchasing tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products or electronic cigarettes; and
         (c)   There is a $250 minimum fine for selling tobacco products to
persons under the age of 21.
      (2)   Copies of the executed document for all current employees of the
licensed business must be kept on the premises at all times and be available
for review and inspection by the Local Tobacco Control Commissioner and law
enforcement officers.
      (3)   Additionally, all licensees shall display signage on the licensed
premises reading as follows:
         THE SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS, ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS OR
ELECTRONIC CIGARETTES TO PERSONS UNDER TWENTY ONE YEARS OF AGE AND THE
POSSESSION OF THE SAME BY SUCH PERSONS IS PROHIBITED BY LAW
(Ord. 2024-17, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 114.03 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   (A)   A maximum of six Class A tobacco licenses shall be issued and in force
at any one time. Any establishment already in possession of a village Class A
tobacco license at the time of the adoption of this ordinance shall be
grandfathered with the ability to renew their existing licenses.
   (B)   A maximum of two Class B tobacco licenses shall be issued and in force
at any one time. Any establishment already in possession of a village Class B
tobacco license at the time of the adoption of this chapter shall be
grandfathered with the ability to renew their existing licenses.
(Ord. 2024-17, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 114.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Applications for a tobacco license shall be made to the Village Clerk and
shall be on a form prescribed by the village. The application shall be signed
by the applicant if an individual or by a duly authorized agent of the
applicant if the applicant is not a natural person. All information and
statements made in the application shall be made and verified by affidavit. The
Local Tobacco Control Commissioner shall review all applications, and shall
exercise his or her sole, exclusive discretion in considering whether to
approve all licenses defined in this chapter. All applications shall require
the approval of the Local Tobacco Control Commissioner. If the application is
not approved by the Local Tobacco Control Commissioner, the application for a
license shall be denied. The application shall contain the following
information:
   (A)   The name, address, date of birth, telephone number, and social
security number of the applicant if the applicant is an individual; or the
name, address, date of birth, telephone number, and social security number of:
      (1)   Each partner if the applicant is a partnership; or
      (2)   Each manager of the applicant, if the applicant is an entity or
other organization.
   (B)   The location and description of the premises or place of business for
which the license is being applied for.
   (C)   A statement whether applicant has made a similar application for a
license on any premises other than the premises described in the application.
   (D)   A statement that the applicant or any manager has never been convicted
of a felony or otherwise disqualified to receive a license by reason of any
matter or thing contained in the laws of Illinois or the ordinances of the
village.
   (E)   A statement as to whether any previous license issued to applicant by
any state or other governmental unit or agency has been suspended or revoked
and the reasons therefor.
   (F)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of the
state of Illinois or the provisions of this chapter in the conduct of business
at the location for which the license is proposed.
   (G)   A background check is required for all new tobacco licenses. The
following individuals are required to consent to a background check:
      (1)   All officers, managers, directors, partners, or persons holding
directly, beneficially or through any form or indirect or concealed ownership
or control, more than 5% of the stock or ownership interest. The Local Tobacco
Control Commissioner may, in his or her discretion, require any applicant for a
renewal of a tobacco license to consent to a background check.
      (2)   All such background checks shall be done by the village's
designated vendor. The cost of background checks shall be paid by the applicant
to the designated vendor.
(Ord. 2024-17, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 114.05 INELIGIBLE APPLICANTS.
   No license shall be issued or renewed to an applicant:
   (A)   Who is indebted to the village or other governmental entity for
payment of any fees, charges, bills or taxes which he is obligated to pay but
has remained unpaid for more than 30 days.
   (B)   Who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state law, or
any misdemeanor involving theft or dishonesty.
   (C)   Whose license under this chapter, or any similar regulatory ordinance
or statute, has been revoked for cause.
   (D)   Who provided false or misleading information as part of their license
application.
   (E)   Who at the time of application for renewal of any license issued
hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first application.
   (F)   Who within one year of application for a tobacco license has been
convicted of, plead guilty to, or been placed on supervision for any tobacco
license related offense.
   (G)   Whose place of business is conducted by a manager or assistant manager
or agent, unless said manager, assistant manager or agent possesses the same
qualifications required by the licensee.
   (H)   Who does not own the premises for which a license is sought or does
not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the license is issued.
   (I)   A person proposing to operate a licensed business at a location within
100 feet of any public or private school typically attended by persons under
the age of 18 years. The 100 feet distance shall be measured by a straight line
from nearest point of the licensed premises to nearest lot line of the school
property and shall include public right-of-way.
(Ord. 2024-17, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 114.06 TERM OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All tobacco licenses shall be for a term of one year and shall
terminate on the thirty- first day of December following the issuance of the
license, except that any license issued for a portion of the year shall have a
term of less than one year and the term thereof shall terminate on the thirty-
first day of December next following the issuance of the license.
   (B)   No licensee may assign, sell or transfer their license to any other
person, or entity, even if such other person intends to conduct the same
business, occupation or activity as the licensee at the location used by the
licensee. The sale of a business by a license holder will immediately terminate
the tobacco license.
   (C)   Change of ownership. Any changes in partnerships, officers, directors,
persons holding directly, beneficially or through any form of indirect or
concealed ownership or control, more than 5% of the stock or ownership interest
of establishments licensed under this chapter, shall be reported in writing to
Village Clerk within ten days of the change.
(Ord. 2024-17, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 114.07 NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   No license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be assignable or
transferable by the licensee or by operation of law or otherwise.
   (B)   A license under this chapter is effective for a period not to exceed
one year after issuance unless sooner suspended or revoked as provided for in §
114.19 of this chapter, and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be
subject to attachment, garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable or
transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or
hypothecated. Such license shall cease upon the death of the licensee or, in
the case of a corporation, limited-liability company or partnership, its
dissolution or bankruptcy, and shall not descend by the laws of testate or
intestate devolution; provided that executors or administrators of the estate
may continue to operate under the existing tobacco license as set forth in this
chapter, under the order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the
privileges of the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of
such decedent, or such insolvency or bankruptcy, until the expiration of such
license, but not longer than six months after the death, bankruptcy or
insolvency of such licensee.
   (C)   Any sale, transfer, or assignment of more than 10% of the shares of a
corporation or more than 10% of an interest in a partnership or other business
entity, shall terminate the existing tobacco license, and require the business
to submit an application and satisfy all of the requirements for new
applicants.
(Ord. 2024-17, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 114.08 PROXIMITY TO CERTAIN INSTITUTIONS.
   (A)   No Class B tobacco license shall be issued within 1,000 feet of any
school, childcare facility, public park or other building used exclusively for
educational or recreational programs for persons under the age of 21 years. For
purposes of this section, required separation distance shall be measured from
the property line to nearest property line.
   (B)   No Class B tobacco license shall issue for any business on the same
property or within the same contiguous commercial center, as any business that
provides any type of educational or recreational programs or services for
persons under the age of 21.
   (C)   No Class B tobacco license shall issue for any location within 1,000
feet of any existing Class B tobacco license. Separation is required to prevent
overconcentration, which is defined as one or more of these uses existing
within 1,000-foot radius of the business. For purposes of this section,
required separation distance shall be measured from property line to property
line.
   (D)   Establishments in possession of a village tobacco license at the time
of adoption of this ordinance who do not meet the minimum separation
requirements shall be grandfathered in as legal non-conforming; any changes
such as ownership or business type will require an application for a new
license.
(Ord. 2024-17, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 114.09 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual fee for a tobacco license is $50. Where the application is
submitted after July 1 of any calendar year, the license fee shall be fixed at
50% of the annual fee.
(Ord. 2024-17, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 114.10 RESPONSIBILITY FOR AGENTS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature, constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter by any officer, director, manager or other
agent or employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of
such licensee; and such licensee shall be punishable in the same manner as if
such act or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee personally.
(Ord. 2024-17, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 114.11 SALES TO AND BY MINORS.
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish tobacco, alternative nicotine
products, electronic cigarettes, vaping devices or smoking devices in any of
its forms to any person under 21 years of age.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, officer, agent, associate,
member, representative, or employee of such licensee to engage, employee, or
permit any person under 21 years of age to sell or furnish any tobacco,
alternative nicotine products, electronic cigarettes, vaping devices or smoking
devices in any form.
(Ord. 2024-17, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 114.12 POSSESSION OF TOBACCO OR TOBACCO PRODUCTS BY MINORS.
   (A)   No person under the age of 21 years shall possess or use tobacco,
alternative nicotine products, e-cigarettes, vaping devices, or smoking devices
in any form, in any public place or business. No person under the age of 21
years shall misrepresent his or her identity or age, or use false or altered
identification, for the purpose of purchasing tobacco, alternative nicotine
products, e-cigarettes, vaping devices, or smoking devices in any form.
   (B)   Whenever the Local Tobacco Control Commissioner or law enforcement
officer observes a violation of this section, he or she may confiscate the
tobacco product for disposal and issue a violation notice to the person
committing the violation. The violation notice shall be signed by the Local
Tobacco Control Commissioner or law enforcement officer and shall include the
following:
      (1)   The name of the person violating this section and his or her
address, if known.
      (2)   The nature of the offense.
      (3)   The amount of the penalty.
(Ord. 2024-17, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 114.13 VENDING MACHINES.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell or offer for sale, give away,
deliver or to keep with the intention of selling, giving away or delivering
tobacco, alternative nicotine product, vapor products or electronic smoking
devices by use of a vending machine.
(Ord. 2024-17, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 114.14 CERTAIN FREE DISTRIBUTIONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any person in the business of
selling or otherwise distributing, promoting or advertising tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products or electronic cigarettes or any employee or agent
of any such licensee or person, in the course of such licensee's or person's
business, to distribute, give away or deliver any tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products or electronic cigarettes free of charge to any person on any
public right-of-way, park, playground or other property owned by the village,
any school district, any park district or any public library.
(Ord. 2024-17, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 114.15 DELIVERY OF TOBACCO OR ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell or offer for sale, give away,
deliver or to keep with the intention of selling, giving away or delivering
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products or electronic cigarettes unless
the sale shall only occur in a direct, in person, face to face exchange.
(Ord. 2024-17, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 114.16 DENIAL OF LICENSE OR RENEWAL.
   If the Local Tobacco Control Commissioner should deny a tobacco license to
an applicant, the Local Tobacco Control Commissioner shall notify the applicant
in writing with the following information included in the basis for the denial:
   (A)   A statement about the decision to deny the license.
   (B)   A list of convictions (if applicable) which are a basis for the denial
of the applicant's tobacco license.
   (C)   The relevant sections of this chapter for which are a basis for the
denial of applicant's tobacco license.
   (D)   Instructions on how to appeal the denial.
(Ord. 2024-17, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 114.17 REVIEW.
   An applicant may request review by the Village Board of Commissioners of the
denial of any license under this chapter, provided the applicant timely files a
request for review with the Village Clerk, within 14 days from the date of any
such denial. The review shall take place in an open session, and the Village
Board shall adopt such rules that it deems necessary. A four-fifths vote by the
Board of Commissioners shall be required to reverse the denial of any license
under this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-17, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 114.18 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   Every year on or before December 15, each tobacco licensee shall submit an
application for license renewal. Along with the application, the owner shall
submit an affidavit verifying the following:
   (A)   The licensee does not have any outstanding violations or financial
obligations to the village;
   (B)   The licensee is eligible for a tobacco license and is in compliance
with all of
Chapter 114;
   (C)   The licensee has not changed business names, location, or ownership;
   (D)   The licensee's owners and managers have not been charged with or found
guilty of a tobacco related offense; and
   (E)   The licensee owns the business location or has a lease through
December of the following year.
(Ord. 2024-17, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 114.19 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Procedure. A first or subsequent violation of the provisions of this
chapter within a 12-month period by a licensee shall result in a hearing as to
whether the licensee's license should be suspended or revoked.
   (B)   Notice of hearing. No such license shall be suspended or revoked
except after a public hearing by the Local Tobacco Control Commissioner with a
seven-day written notice to the licensee affording the licensee an opportunity
to appear and defend against the charges contained in such notice. The seven-
day notice provisions shall begin the day following delivery by certified mail
or by personal service.
   (C)   Decision. The Local Tobacco Control Commissioner shall, within seven
days after such hearing, if he determines after such hearing that the license
should be revoked or suspended, state the reason for such determination in a
written order and the period of suspension or that the license has been revoked
and serve a copy of such order within the seven days upon the licensee.
      (1)   In the case of a first violation within a 12-month period, the
licensee's tobacco license may be suspended for not more than one day. The
licensee must then remove all tobacco products merchandise from all areas
accessible to the public while the license is suspended and shall not sell any
tobacco products.
      (2)   In the case of a second violation within a 12-month period, the
licensee's tobacco license may be suspended for not more than seven consecutive
days. The licensee must then remove all tobacco products merchandise from all
areas accessible to the public while the license is suspended and shall not
sell any tobacco products.
      (3)   In the case of a third violation within a 12-month period, the
licensee's tobacco license may be revoked. Upon the revocation of a tobacco
license, all tobacco products merchandise must be removed from all areas
accessible to the public and the tobacco retailer shall not sell any tobacco
products.
   (D)   Costs. Any licensee determined by the Local Tobacco Control
Commissioner to have violated any of the provisions of this chapter shall pay
to the Village the costs of the hearing before the Local Tobacco Control
Commissioner on such violation. The Local Tobacco Control Commissioner shall
determine the costs incurred by the village for said hearing, including, but
not limited to, court reporter fees, the costs of transcripts or records,
attorney fees, the cost of preparing and mailing notices and orders and all
other miscellaneous expenses incurred by the village or such lesser sum as the
Local Tobacco Control Commissioner may allow. The licensee shall pay said costs
to the village within 30 days of notification of the costs by the Local Tobacco
Control Commissioner. Failure to pay said costs within 30 days of notification
is a violation of this chapter and may be cause for license suspension or
revocation or the levy of additional fines.
   (E)   Use of premises after license revocation. When any license shall have
been revoked for any cause, no license shall be granted to said licensee for
the period of one year thereafter for the conduct of the business of selling
tobacco products in the premises described in such revoked license.
(Ord. 2024-17, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any tobacco licensee who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be subject to graduated minimum fines and penalties as follows:
      (1)   For a first violation, $500 fine;
      (2)   For a second violation, $750 fine;
      (3)   For a third violation, $750 fine.
   (B)   Each day any person violates any of the provisions of this chapter
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Nothing in this section is intended or shall be construed as limiting
in any way the village's authority to seek other remedies against any license
that violates this chapter, including, but not limited to, suspension or
revocation of the licensee's license.
   (D)   In addition to the fines and penalties set forth above, whenever any
licensee, or employee or agent of such licensee, is convicted or otherwise
pleads guilty to any violation of this chapter, the Local Tobacco Control
Commissioner may, in their discretion, also suspend or revoke said licensee's
license, provided that the licensee shall be entitled to notice and a hearing
before the Local Tobacco Control Commissioner prior to any such suspension or
revocation. It shall be unlawful and shall constitute a further violation of
this chapter for any licensee whose license has been revoked or suspended
pursuant to this section to continue to operate under the license at any time
that it is so revoked or suspended.
(Ord. 2024-17, passed 11-12-2024)
CHAPTER 115: HOME KITCHEN AND COTTAGE FOOD OPERATIONS
Section
   
115.01   Sale of food products from home kitchen and cottage food operations
§ 115.01 SALE OF FOOD PRODUCTS FROM HOME KITCHEN AND COTTAGE FOOD OPERATIONS.
   (A)   The village hereby adopts and incorporates the provisions of the Food
Handling Regulation Enforcement Act (ILCS Ch. 410, Act 625, §§ 1 et seq.), as
amended.
   (B)   Home kitchen operations and cottage food operations, as defined by
Food Handling Regulation Enforcement Act, as amended, are permitted within the
village. The sale of non-potentially hazardous food by home kitchen operations
and by cottage food operations is also permitted in accordance with the Food
Handling Regulation Enforcement Act.
   (C)   The village hereby authorizes the direct sale of baked goods as
described in Section 4 of the Food Handling Regulation Enforcement Act (ILCS
Ch. 410, Act 625, § 4).
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 3-10-2015)
CHAPTER 116: RAFFLES
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   License required
   
116.03   Eligibility for raffle license
   
116.04   Limitations
   
116.05   Restrictions
   
116.06   Applications
   
116.07   License fee
   
116.08   Submittal and approval
   
116.09   Records
   
116.10   Manager’s bond
   
116.11   Suspension or revocation
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. A voluntary organization composed of individuals and businesses
who have joined together to advance the commercial, financial, industrial and
civil interests of a community.
   CHARITABLE. An organization or institution organized and operated to benefit
an indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to those eligible for
benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.
   CLASS A RAFFLE. A raffle, where the prize(s) offered consists only of some
form of tangible or intangible goods or services which cannot be redeemed for
or converted into cash with the raffle licensee. The value of any individual
prize in a Class A raffle shall not exceed $50,000, and the aggregate value of
all prizes in a single Class A raffle shall not exceed $250,000.
   CLASS B RAFFLE. A raffle, where the prize(s) offered consist solely of cash.
The value of any individual prize in a Class B raffle shall not exceed $50,000,
and the aggregate value of all prizes in a single Class B raffle shall not
exceed $250,000.
   CLASS C RAFFLE. A raffle, where the prize(s) offered consist solely of cash.
The value of any individual prize in a Class C shall be any amount in excess of
the permitted Class B individual prize amount, provided, however, that if the
amount of an individual cash raffle prize cannot be determined prior to the
sale of the first chance or ticket for such raffle, then such raffle shall be
deemed to be a Class C raffle, without regard to the eventual or ultimately
determined amount of any prize for such raffle. Likewise, the aggregate value
of all cash prizes awarded in a Class C raffle shall be any amount in excess of
the permitted aggregate Class B prize amount, provided, however, that if the
aggregate value of all cash prizes in a given raffle cannot be determined prior
to the sale of the first chance or ticket for such raffle, then such raffle
shall be deemed to be a Class C raffle, without regard to the eventual or
ultimately determined aggregate amount of any prizes for such raffle.
   EDUCATIONAL. An organization or institution organized and operated to
provide systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by methods common
to schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably in their scope
and intensity with the course of study presented in tax-supported schools.
   FRATERNAL. An organization of persons having a common interest, the primary
interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and to provide
assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the burdens of
government by caring for those that otherwise would be cared for by the
government.
   LABOR. An organization composed of workers organized with the objective of
betterment of the conditions of or attaining a higher degree of efficiency in
their respective occupations.
   NET PROCEEDS. The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less
reasonable sums expended for prizes, license fees, and other reasonable
operating expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
   NON-PROFIT. An organization or institution organized and conducted on a not-
for-profit basis with no personal profit inuring to anyone as a result of the
operation.
   RAFFLE. A form of lottery, as defined in § 28-2(b) of the Illinois Criminal
Code of 2012, conducted by an organization licensed under the Illinois Raffles
Act, in which:
      (1)   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance or
ticket, represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of
numbers or by some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be
designated the winning chance or ticket; and
      (2)   The winning chance or ticket is to be determined through a drawing
or by some other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts
on the part of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that
the winning chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly
exhibited sporting contest.
   RELIGIOUS. Any church, congregation, society or organization founded for the
purpose of religious worship.
   VETERANS. An organization or association comprised of members of which
substantially all are individuals who are veterans of military service, the
primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of its members and to
provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to confer a public
benefit.
(Ord. 2017-15, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 116.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall conduct a raffle without having first
obtained a license therefor pursuant to this chapter and the Illinois Raffles
Act. Notwithstanding the foregoing, political committees licensed to conduct a
raffle from the State Board of Elections shall be exempt from the provisions of
this chapter, and shall be permitted to engage in such activities as may be
permitted by the terms of any such license so issued. Class A licenses shall be
valid for 1 year from the date of issuance, and shall permit the holder thereof
to conduct not more than 1 Class A raffle per month. Class B licenses shall be
valid for 1 year from the date of issuance and shall permit the holder thereof
to conduct not more than 4 Class B raffles per month. Class C licenses shall be
valid for a period of 1 year, during which a Class C licensee shall be
permitted to conduct not more than 1 Class C raffle at a given time, provided,
however, that there shall otherwise be no limitation on the number of raffles
that a Class C licensee may conduct during a given calendar year. A single
applicant/licensee may apply for, and if otherwise eligible, simultaneously
receive and hold Class A, Class B and Class C raffle licenses, but no applicant
shall hold more than 1 license of any class at any given time.
(Ord. 2017-15, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 116.03 ELIGIBILITY FOR RAFFLE LICENSE.
   (A)   Licenses shall be issued only to bona fide religious, charitable,
labor, business, fraternal, educational, or veterans' organizations as defined
in §
116.01, which operate without a profit to their members, which have been in
existence continuously for a period of 5 years immediately before making
application for a license, and which have had during that entire 5 year period
a bona fide membership engaged in carrying out their objectives, or to a non-
profit fund raising organization organized for the sole purpose of providing
financial assistance to an identified individual or group of individuals
suffering extreme financial hardships as the result of an illness, disability,
accident or disaster.
   (B)   The following are ineligible for any license under this chapter:
      (1)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
      (2)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
      (3)   Any person who is not of good moral character;
      (4)   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in divisions (1)
through (3) has a proprietary, equitable, or credit interest, or in which such
a person is active or employed;
      (5)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (1) through
(3) is an officer, director, or employee, whether compensated or not;
      (6)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (1) through
(3) is to participate in the management or operation of a raffle as defined in
the Illinois Raffles Act; and/or
      (7)   Any person convicted of or found guilty of a violation of this
chapter, for a period of 1 year following the date of such conviction or
finding of guilty, and any organization in which any such person is to
participate in the management or operation of a raffle as defined in the
Illinois Raffles Act.
(Ord. 2017-15, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 116.04 LIMITATIONS.
   All raffles and raffle licenses are subject to the following limitations.
   (A)   The individual and aggregate values of prizes for Class A, Class B and
Class C raffles shall be as respectively set forth in §
116.01.
   (B)   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle ticket issued
or sold is limited to $250 for a Class A raffle, for a Class B raffle, and for
a Class C raffle.
   (C)   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or sold
is limited to 90 days for Class A and B raffles. There shall be no limitation
on the number of days during which the holder of a valid Class C license may
issue or sell chances.
(Ord. 2017-15, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 116.05 RESTRICTIONS.
   Raffles are subject to the following restrictions.
   (A)   Proceeds. The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively
devoted to the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct that
raffle.
   (B)   Participation in management. No person except a bona fide member of
the sponsoring organization may participate in the management or operation of
the raffle.
   (C)   Remuneration. No person may receive any remuneration or profit for
participating in the management or operation of the raffle.
   (D)   Premises. A licensee may rent premises on which to determine the
winning ticket or tickets in a raffle only from an organization which is also
licensed under this chapter.
   (E)   Locations. Raffle tickets may be sold or issued only within the area
specified on the license and winning tickets may be drawn or determined only at
the single location specified on the license application.
   (F)   Age. A person under the age of 18 years may participate in the
conducting of raffles only with the permission of a parent or guardian. A
person under the age of 18 years may be within the area where drawings are held
only when accompanied by his parent or guardian.
   (G)   Manager. All raffle licensees must designate 1 member of the licensee
organization to serve as its raffle manager. A raffle manager shall be
responsible for the organization and conduct of the raffle generally, and shall
further be responsible for collecting and accounting for all raffle proceeds,
including but not limited to payment of prizes, payment of applicable taxes,
and the disposition in accordance with this chapter of the remaining proceeds
accruing to the licensee organization.
   (H)   Legal and Tax Compliance. All raffle licensees shall comply with all
applicable laws and regulations pertaining to the conduct of raffles, and the
collection, payment of, and accounting for raffle prizes and proceeds,
including, but not limited to, all applicable state and federal income tax laws
and regulations.
(Ord. 2017-15, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 116.06 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for a license shall be made on a form provided by the village
for such purpose and must contain at least the following information:
   (A)   Name of applicant;
   (B)   Address;
   (C)   Purpose of raffle(s);
   (D)   Area(s) where tickets will be sold;
   (E)   Time period(s) during which tickets will be sold or issued;
   (F)   Sworn statement attesting to not-for-profit character of the
prospective licensee organization, signed by presiding officer and secretary of
organization;
   (G)   Time(s) and location within the Village of Diamond at which winning
ticket(s) will be determined;
   (H)   The license fee;
   (I)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise to be awarded
at each raffle;
   (J)   The maximum retail value of each prize or each specific type of prize
to be awarded by a licensee at each raffle;
   (K)   The maximum amount to be charged for each raffle ticket and the number
of tickets to be issued and available for sale for each raffle; and
   (L)   A statement signed by the organization and proposed raffles manager of
the licensee organization consenting to the conduct of a criminal background
check of the organization and the proposed raffles manager to determine
eligibility for licensure in accordance with §
116.03.
(Ord. 2017-15, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 116.07 LICENSE FEE.
   The fee for a license to conduct a raffle shall be $10 for a Class A raffle,
for a Class B raffle, and for a Class C raffle license. No application for a
license will be approved prior to receipt of the license fee.
(Ord. 2017-15, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 116.08 SUBMITTAL AND APPROVAL.
   Applications may be filed in person at Village Hall, or by mail addressed to
the Village Clerk, Village of Diamond, 1750 E. Division Street, Diamond, IL
60416. Applications will be investigated and evaluated by the proper officers
of the village within 10 days of the date of the receipt thereof, and the
applications together with the results of such investigation and evaluation
shall be forwarded to the Village Mayor for a final decision on the
application, which decision shall be made within 30 days of the date on which
the village receives a completed application. If the application and related
investigations and evaluations demonstrate compliance with this chapter, the
Village Mayor shall approve the application, endorse such approval on the face
of the application and so notify the applicant. An approved application for a
license shall constitute the license for the conduct of the raffle applied for
by the applicant. If the application and related investigations and evaluations
fail to demonstrate compliance with this chapter, the Village Mayor shall deny
the application.
(Ord. 2017-15, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 116.09 RECORDS.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct a raffle shall keep such records
and shall also keep records of its gross receipts, expenses, and net proceeds
for each single gathering or occasion at which winning tickets are determined.
   (B)   Gross receipts from the operation of each raffle shall be segregated
from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross receipts if
bingo games are also conducted by the same nonprofit organization pursuant to
license therefor issued by the Department of Revenue of the State of Illinois,
and shall be placed in a separate account. Each organization shall have
separate records of its raffles. The person who accounts for gross receipts,
expenses, and net proceeds from the operation of raffles shall not be the same
person who accounts for other revenues of the organization.
   (C)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall report in writing
within 30 days after the conclusion of each raffle to its membership, and to
the office of the Village Clerk, its gross receipts, expenses, and net proceeds
from raffles and the distribution of net proceeds itemized as required in the
Illinois Raffles Act and as may be required by this chapter. Where an
organization is licensed to conduct more than 1 raffle, the report may be filed
within 30 days after the conclusion of the last raffle drawing.
   (D)   Records required by this section shall be preserved 3 years and
organizations shall make available their records relating to operation of
raffles for inspection by the village within 5 days of the village's request to
inspect or audit such records.
(Ord. 2017-15, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 116.10 MANAGER’S BOND.
   All operations of and the conduct of raffles shall be under the supervision
of a single raffles manager designated by the organization in its application.
The manager of the organization shall give a fidelity bond in an amount equal
to the aggregate value of the prizes to be awarded in favor of the organization
conditioned upon manager's honesty in the performance of his/her duties. All
such bonds shall provide as an express term thereof, that notice shall be given
in writing to the village not less than 30 days prior to the cancellation or
expiration of the bond. In the event that a Class C raffles license applicant
cannot determine the aggregate value of the prizes to be awarded in a given
raffle, the amount of the manager's fidelity bond for such license shall be set
at an amount not less than $250,000 or double the amount of the then-current
aggregate prize value, as determined from time to time.
(Ord. 2017-15, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 116.11 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   Licenses issued under this chapter may be suspended or revoked by a notice
thereof issued by the Village Mayor if the licensee or any person managing a
raffle under any such license violates any provision of this chapter, or any
other applicable ordinance of the village or law of the State of Illinois or
United States that reflects unfavorably on the fitness of the licensee or its
manager to conduct raffles.
(Ord. 2017-15, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Any person that violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to a fine of not less than $150 nor more than $750 for each such
violation, in addition to any license suspension, revocation, or other
enforcement action otherwise available to the village under this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-15, passed 9-26-2017)
CHAPTER 117: CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED
Section
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   Cannabis business establishments prohibited
   
117.03   Public nuisance declared
   
117.04   Violations
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. A cultivation center, craft
grower, processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing organization
or transporting organization.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER. A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
(P.A.101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities
to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027), as it
may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027), as it may
be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER. A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time,
and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR. A facility operated
by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER. An organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.101-
0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation, association, club, society or other
organization, including any owner, manager, proprietor, employee, volunteer or
agent.
(Ord. 2019-19, passed 8-13-2019)
§ 117.02 CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   The following adult-use cannabis business establishments are prohibited in
the village. No person shall locate, operate, own, suffer, allow to be operate
or aide, abet or assist in the operation within the village of any of the
following:
   (A)   Adult-use cannabis craft grower.
   (B)   Adult-use cannabis cultivation center.
   (C)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization.
   (D)   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization or infuser.
   (E)   Adult-use cannabis processing organization or processor.
   (F)   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization or transporter.
(Ord. 2019-19, passed 8-13-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.03 PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Operation of any prohibited cannabis business establishment within the
village in violation of the provisions of this chapter is hereby declared a
public nuisance and shall be abated pursuant to all available remedies.
(Ord. 2019-19, passed 8-13-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.04. VIOLATIONS.
   Violations of this chapter may be enforced in accordance with the provisions
of §
10.99 of this code.
(Ord. 2019-19, passed 8-13-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 118: MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
Section
   
118.01   Definitions
   
118.02   Mobile food service license required
   
118.03   Types of mobile food service licenses
   
118.04   Application for mobile food service license
   
118.05   Mobile food service on public property
   
118.06   Mobile food service on private property registration
   
118.07   Restrictions on use
   
118.08   Sanitation and inspections
   
118.09   Insurance required
   
118.10   Granting and issuance of mobile food service license
   
118.11   Revocation or suspension of license
   
118.12   Enforcement
 
   
118.99   Penalty
§ 118.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICATION. The person or entity applying for a license, in the case of a
corporation, limited liability company, partnership, or joint venture, each
shareholder, member, partner, or director shall be considered an applicant.
   MOBILE FOOD SERVICE. The preparation or sale of food, beverages or other
products from a mobile food vehicle/truck or pushcart.
   MOBILE FOOD SERVICE OPERATOR. Any person or entity owning or otherwise in
charge of the operations of a mobile food service.
   MOBILE FOOD VEHICLE/TRUCK. A vehicle or trailer mounted food service used to
conduct a mobile food service and designed to be readily moveable.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDOR. Any person conducting mobile food services in a mobile
food vehicle/truck or pushcart within the village. The mobile food vendor shall
include the mobile food service operator when performing mobile food service.
   PERMITTED SPECIAL EVENTS. Events which have been issued a special events
permit by the village.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any residential dwelling, business, or taxing district
property where the vending would not be located in or on public streets,
roadways, alleys, sidewalks, or rights- of-way within the village.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public streets, roadways, alleys, sidewalks, or right-
of way within the village.
   PUSHCART. A non-motorized unit limited to serving non-potentially hazardous
foods or commissary wrapped food maintained at proper temperatures.
(Ord. 2024-06, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 118.02 MOBILE FOOD SERVICE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate within the village a mobile
food service, as defined in this chapter, without first having obtained a
license for that purpose.
(Ord. 2024-06, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 118.03 TYPES OF MOBILE FOOD SERVICE LICENSES.
   Mobile food service licenses shall be divided into the following types:
   (A)   Type A mobile food service licenses are designed to accommodate mobile
food services that participate in permitted special events, such as private
parties, block parties, company picnics, and visits to local businesses.
   (B)   Type B mobile food service licenses are designed to accommodate mobile
food services that visit multiple locations throughout the day, such as ice
cream trucks and job site canteen trucks.
(Ord. 2024-06, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 118.04 APPLICATION FOR MOBILE FOOD SERVICE LICENSE.
   All applications for a mobile food service license shall be made to the
Village Clerk on a form provided for that purpose. Each application should be
made ten business days before the same is required to allow a period for proper
examination and investigation of whether the mobile food service license should
be granted.
(Ord. 2024-06, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 118.05 MOBILE FOOD SERVICE ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to operate as a mobile
food service operator or a mobile food vendor on public property without having
first obtained a license from the Village Clerk. Each application shall provide
the following information:
      (1)   Applicant name, present place of residence, length of residence at
such address, phone number, email address, business name, business address,
type of business, length of time in type of business being applied for;
      (2)   Name, address, phone number and email address for all drivers or
operators of the mobile food vehicle/truck or pushcart;
      (3)   Copy of a valid driver's license, state ID or other government
identification from all applicants, members, partners, officers, stockholders,
directors, registers agents, managers, drivers, and operators;
      (4)   List of mobile food vehicles/trucks or pushcarts intended to be
operated including the make, model, color, year, vehicle identification number
and license number for each;
      (5)   Statement whether the applicant has made similar applications for a
license other than described in this application;
      (6)   Statement whether a similar license has been revoked by the village
or any other licensing body and reasons therefor;
      (7)   Statement whether the applicant or operator has ever been convicted
of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or the ordinance of any
other Illinois municipality regulating the activities of mobile food vendors;
      (8)   Statement whether the applicant or operator has ever been convicted
of the commission of a felony under the laws of the State of Illinois or any
other state or federal law of the United States;
      (9)   Provide an Illinois Department of Revenue identification number for
the retailers' occupation tax. No license shall be issued if the applicant does
not have an identification number except that no identification number shall be
required if a mobile food vendor or a mobile food service operator is sponsored
by or working for a religious, educational, or charitable organization where
such organization is entirely a nonprofit organization and who can furnish the
village with a "tax exempt number" and written proof of its "tax exempt
status;"
      (10)   Copy of all required Illinois and County Health Department
permits;
      (11)   Copy of state license and vehicle registration;
      (12)   Proof of liability and automobile insurance;
      (13)   Each applicant and operator shall submit a photo that must be the
same size as required for passports: two inches by two inches.
   (B)   Each applicant shall pay a $200 application fee per application. The
application fee covers the first mobile food vehicle/truck or pushcart.
Additional mobile food vehicles/trucks or pushcarts will be $50 each. All fees
are non-refundable. No application fee shall be charged of a mobile food vendor
or a mobile food service operator sponsored by or working for a religious,
educational, or charitable organization where such organization is entirely a
nonprofit organization and who can furnish the village with a "tax exempt
number" and written proof of its "tax exempt status."
   (C)   No such license shall be issued to, or held by and person who:
      (1)   Has provided incomplete or incorrect information;
      (2)   Has been convicted of a felony under the laws of the State of
Illinois or any other state or federal law of the United States, within the
past five years of the date of the application;
      (3)   Has been convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter or to any person whose business registration or license has previously
been revoked;
      (4)   Must register as a sex offender as required by the Sex Offender
Registration Act, ILCS Ch. 730, Act 150.
   (D)   A criminal background check will be performed for all applicants,
drivers, and operators. The mobile food vendor or the mobile food service
operator shall pay all third party charges for the background check. The
applicant shall furnish a list of all applicants and persons who will be
employed as a mobile food vendor or a mobile food service operator, including
their names, addresses and a statement that each person has never been
convicted of a felony.
   (E)   All statements made upon the application by the applicant shall be
under oath.
   (F)   The office of the Village Clerk shall keep an accurate record of every
application received and acted upon with all other information and data
pertaining to all business registrations and licenses issued under the
provisions of this chapter and of the denial of applications.
   (G)   The allowed number of licenses for mobile food vehicles/trucks or
pushcarts may be limited by ordinance.
(Ord. 2024-06, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 118.06 MOBILE FOOD SERVICE ON PRIVATE PROPERTY REGISTRATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to operate as a mobile
food service operator or a mobile food vendor on private property without
having first obtained a registration from the Village Clerk. Registrations
shall be made to the Village Clerk upon forms provided for that purpose. Each
registrant shall provide the following information:
      (1)   Registrant name, address, phone number and email address;
      (2)   Business name, address, phone number, email address, nature of
business and whether the business is tax exempt;
      (3)   Driver/operator name, address, phone number and email address;
      (4)   List of mobile food vehicles/trucks or pushcarts intended to be
operated including the make, model, year, color, vehicle identification number
and license number for each;
      (5)   Provide an Illinois Department of Revenue identification number for
the retailers' occupation tax. No registration shall be issued if the
registrant does not have an identification number except that no identification
number shall be required if a mobile food service operator or a mobile food
vendor is sponsored by or working for a religious, educational, or charitable
organization where such organization is entirely a nonprofit organization and
who can furnish the village with a "tax exempt number" and written proof of
"tax exempt status;"
      (6)   Copy of driver's license for all registrants, drivers and
operators;
      (7)   Written permission from the property owner;
      (8)   Copy of Illinois and County Health Department permits;
      (9)   Except for licensing, all mobile food vendor provisions of this
chapter are applicable.
   (B)   Each registrant shall pay a $25 registration fee for the first mobile
food vehicle/truck or pushcart, and a $10 fee for each additional mobile food
vehicle/truck or pushcart. All fees are non-refundable. No registration fee
shall be charged of a mobile food service operator or a mobile food vendor
sponsored by or working for a religious, educational, or charitable
organization where such organization is entirely a nonprofit organization and
who can furnish the village with a "tax exempt number" and written proof of its
"tax exempt status."
   (C)   No such permit shall be issued if the driver or operator:
      (1)   Has provided incomplete or incorrect information;
      (2)   Has been convicted of a felony under the laws of the State of
Illinois or any other state or federal law of the United States, within the
past five years of the date of the application;
      (3)   Has been convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter or to any person whose business registration or license has previously
been revoked;
      (4)   Must register as a sex offender as required by the Sex Offender
Registration Act, ILCS Ch. 730, Act 150.
   (D)   A criminal background check will be performed for all drivers and
operators. The mobile food vendor or the mobile food service operator shall pay
all third party charges for the background check. The applicant shall furnish a
list of all applicants and persons who will be employed as a mobile food vendor
or a mobile food service operator, including their names, addresses and a
statement that each person has never been convicted of a felony.
(Ord. 2024-06, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 118.07 RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   The following standards shall apply to all mobile food service operators and
mobile food vendors:
   (A)   Mobile food service operators and mobile food vendors may operate
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., Sunday through Saturday,
including holidays.
   (B)   Mobile food service operators and mobile food vendors shall have all
of the necessary health department permits.
   (C)   No alcohol may be sold from a mobile food vehicles/trucks or a
pushcart.
   (D)   No mobile food vehicles/trucks or pushcart shall be left unattended on
a public way.
   (E)   No mobile food vehicles/trucks or pushcart shall be parked on a right-
of-way or in a private residential parking space unless it has stopped to sell
food in accordance with the regulations of this chapter. For example, overnight
parking on a street or in a residential driveway is prohibited.
   (F)   No mobile food service operator nor mobile food vendor shall drink any
alcoholic beverages, shout or call to prospective customers, or to disturb the
peace in any manner while on duty.
   (G)   No mobile food service operator nor mobile food vendor shall install
any signs other than those which are contained within or attached to the
vehicle, except with the written permission of the village and the property
owner.
   (H)   All food items available for sale, and the price of each food item
must be posted on the exterior of the mobile food vehicles/trucks or pushcarts.
   (I)   Each mobile food vehicle/truck or pushcart shall have on each side, in
letters readable from a distance of 50 feet, the name of the licensee operating
it. If more than one mobile food vehicle/truck or pushcart is operated by a
licensee, each mobile food vehicle/truck or pushcart shall be designated by a
different number, and such number shall appear on each side of the mobile food
vehicle/truck or pushcart. The licensee shall be responsible for numbering.
   (J)   Each mobile food vehicle/truck or pushcart operator shall have an
operator's identification card, including a photo of the operator, prominently
displayed upon the operator so that it is clearly visible to the customers at
the point of sale. The licensee will be responsible for providing
identification cards to the operators.
   (K)   No mobile food vehicle/truck shall be operated unless it is equipped
with required brakes, lights, tires, horn, muffler, rear vision mirror, and
windshield wipers in good condition.
   (L)   The owner/applicant shall furnish the village, on an annual basis, an
inspection and certificate of safety of each mobile food vehicle/truck or
pushcart indicating the mobile food vehicle/truck or pushcart is in a safe
mechanical condition.
   (M)   No mobile food service operator nor mobile food vendor shall install
any tables, chairs, or other equipment, except with the written permission of
the village and the property owner.
   (N)   No lighting shall be mounted to the mobile food vehicles/trucks that
may spill onto adjacent residential property as measured from the property
line.
   (O)   No mobile food service operator nor mobile food vendor shall use
utilities drawn from or across the public right-of-way, except with the written
permission of the Village Public Works Supervisor.
   (P)   No mobile food vehicles/trucks nor a pushcart shall operate a drive-
through.
   (Q)   Mobile food service operators and mobile food vendors shall
prominently display the County Health Department permits and the village mobile
food service license.
   (R)   Mobile food vendors shall be responsible for paying all applicable
Illinois Retailers taxes.
   (S)   Mobile food service operators and mobile food vendors with Type A
Licenses may not operate for more than five consecutive days on any property.
   (T)   Mobile food service operators and mobile food vendors with Type A
Licenses may operate for a maximum of 52 total days during any calendar year.
   (U)   Certain provisions of this chapter may be waived for mobile food
service operators and mobile food vendors operating under the terms of a
special event agreement with the village.
   (V)   Sale of food from mobile food vehicles/trucks or pushcarts shall be
prohibited as follows:
      (1)   Upon the following roadways within the village:
         (a)   Division Street (IL 113), Will Road, Spring Road, and Berta
Road.
      (2)   In any park within the village unless the mobile food service
operator or mobile food vendor possesses written permission from the village
that contains a date and time range that they are authorized to operate as a
mobile food service operator or mobile food vendor on village park property.
      (3)   In any area where the operation impedes vehicular or pedestrian
travel as determined by the Mayor, Grundy or Will County Sheriff, or his or her
designees.
      (4)   Mobile food service operators and mobile food vendors are not
licensed to conduct business door to door.
      (5)   Type B mobile food service operators and mobile food vendors shall
not conduct business from a stationary public location for more than 30
minutes. Mobile food service operators and mobile food vendors must move a
minimum of one-quarter mile in order to be deemed at a new location.
      (6)   The mobile food vehicle/truck or pushcart cannot obstruct a public
way or intersection, impair the movement of pedestrians or vehicles, pose a
hazard to public safety or violate any parking regulations.
      (7)   The mobile food vehicle/truck or pushcart cannot block a fire
hydrant or other public safety equipment.
      (8)   The weight of the mobile food vehicle/truck or pushcart must be
able to be supported by the pavement or street surface.
      (9)   The village shall have the ability to restrict the location of
mobile food service operators and mobile food vendors should it be determined
that the location creates a parking shortage, parking issue, or unsafe parking
conditions.
      (10)   Mobile food service operators and mobile food vendors shall obey
any lawful order of a County Sheriff's Deputy to move to a different location
to avoid congestion or obstruction of a public way or remove the vehicle
entirely from the public way if necessary to avoid such congestion or
obstruction.
      (11)   Prohibitions listed may be waived if a special event permit is
issued by the village.
(Ord. 2024-06, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 118.08 SANITATION AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   All mobile food vehicles/trucks and pushcarts shall be kept in a clean
and sanitary condition. The Village Mayor or their designee, the County Health
Department personnel, and County Sheriffs Department personnel, bearing proper
identification, shall be permitted to enter any mobile food vehicles/trucks at
any reasonable time for the purpose of inspecting to determine whether the
vendor has complied with the terms of this chapter. Additionally, the vendor
shall, upon request, provide them with the records of the mobile food vehicles/
trucks to obtain information pertaining to food and supplies purchased,
received, or used.
   (B)   All food storage, preparation and distribution of food, and vehicle
equipment must meet applicable Illinois Department of Public Health and County
Health Department standards and requirements.
   (C)   All waste liquids, garbage, litter and refuse shall be kept in leak-
proof, nonabsorbent containers which shall be kept covered with tight-fitting
lids and properly disposed of at the end of each day. No waste liquids,
garbage, litter or refuse shall be dumped or drained onto/into sidewalks,
streets, gutters, drains, or trash receptacles. A garbage receptacle shall be
easily accessible for customer use. Vendor shall be responsible for all litter
and garbage left by customers.
(Ord. 2024-06, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 118.09 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   Prior to the issuance of any license or permit under this chapter, the
applicant shall deposit with the village sufficient evidence that the mobile
food service operator or mobile food vendor has insurance that meets the
following standards:
   (A)   Commercial general liability: $1,000,000 combined single limit per
occurrence for bodily injury, and property damage and aggregate shall be twice
the required occurrence limit. Minimum general aggregate shall be no less than
$2,000,000.
   (B)   Business automobile liability: $1,000,000 combined single limit per
accident for bodily injury and property damage.
   (C)   An umbrella insurance policy in an amount not less than $1,000,000 per
occurrence.
   (D)   The village including its officers, employees and agents shall be
named as additionally insured on the insurance policy.
   (E)   The insurance policy shall be occurrence-based.
   (F)   A license issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be
invalid at any time the insurance required herein is not maintained and
evidence of continuing coverage is not filed with the village.
(Ord. 2024-06, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 118.10 GRANTING AND ISSUANCE OF MOBILE FOOD SERVICE LICENSE.
   In all cases where mobile food service license or permit are to be obtained
and ordinance compliance is met, a mobile food service license or permit shall
be granted by the Village Mayor.
(Ord. 2024-06, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 118.11 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   If the Mayor of the village or any official of the village shall have cause
to believe that a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter has
occurred which would be grounds for revocation, suspension or refusal to renew
a license, a written notice shall be sent to the last known place of business
of the licensee informing of the alleged violation(s), what action will be
taken if the licensee does not respond within ten days of the date of the
letter and giving an opportunity to have a meeting with the Mayor. In the event
a situation that is dangerous to the health, safety and welfare of the
citizenry, the said official shall apply to the Village Mayor for an immediate
order suspending the license. A letter shall be sent advising of the action
taken, why it was taken and that it will be a permanent action unless within
ten days the licensee should apply for a meeting with the Village Mayor,
seeking reinstatement of the privileges.
(Ord. 2024-06, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 118.12 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Mayor of the village or official of the village
charged with the enforcement of any regulatory provision in this chapter, to
take such action to the extent permitted by law as shall be necessary to compel
compliance with said regulatory provision. The Mayor or official shall have
authority to call upon the County Sheriffs Department for aid in the
enforcement of said regulato1y provision, and it shall be the duty of the
County Sheriffs Department, when called upon, to perform such duties as may be
required of them in order to enforce or put into effect said regulatory
provision.
(Ord. 2024-06, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found liable/guilty by a preponderance of the evidence of a
violation of this chapter shall be fined not less than $100 or more than $750.
Each day a violation occurs is considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 2024-06, passed 4-9-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES PERTAINING TO PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
135.   GAMBLING OFFENSES
      
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
137.   WEAPONS
      
138.   DRUG OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Intent
   
130.03   Knowledge
   
130.04   Recklessness
   
130.05   Negligence
   
130.06   Attempt
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The taking of action or a failure or omission to take action.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-2)
   ANOTHER. A person or persons other than the offender.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-3)
   CONDUCT. An act or a series of acts, and the accompanying mental state.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-4)
   OFFENSE. A violation of a penal statute of this village or state.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-12)
§ 130.02 INTENT.
   A person intends, or acts intentionally or with intent, to accomplish a
result or engage in conduct described by the section defining the offense, when
his or her conscious objective or purpose is to accomplish that result or
engage in that conduct.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-4)
§ 130.03 KNOWLEDGE.
   (A)   A person knows, or acts knowingly or with knowledge of:
      (1)   The nature or attendant circumstances of his or her conduct,
described by the section defining the offense, when he or she is consciously
aware that his or her conduct is of such nature or that such circumstances
exist. Knowledge of a material fact includes awareness of the substantial
probability that the fact exists.
      (2)   The result of his or her conduct, described by the section defining
the offense, when he or she is consciously aware that that result is
practically certain to be caused by his or her conduct.
   (B)   Conduct performed knowingly or with knowledge is performed willfully,
within the meaning of a statute using the latter term, unless the section
clearly requires another meaning.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-5)
§ 130.04 RECKLESSNESS.
   A person is reckless or acts recklessly, when he or she consciously
disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that circumstances exist or
that a result will follow, described by the section defining the offense; and
this disregard constitutes a gross deviation from the standard of care which a
reasonable person would exercise in the situation. An act performed recklessly
is performed wantonly, within the meaning of a section using the latter term,
unless the statute clearly requires another meaning.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-6)
§ 130.05 NEGLIGENCE.
   A person is negligent, or acts negligently, when he or she fails to be aware
of a substantial and unjustifiable risk that circumstances exist or a result
will follow, described by the statute defining the offense; and this failure
constitutes a substantial deviation from the standard of care which a
reasonable person would exercise in the situation.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-7)
§ 130.06 ATTEMPT.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person commits an attempt when, with intent
to commit a specific offense, he or she does any act which constitutes a
substantial step toward the commission of that offense.
        (B)   Impossibility.  It shall not be a defense to a charge of attempt
that because of a misapprehension of the circumstances it would have been
impossible for the accused to commit the offense attempted.
   (C)   Statutory fine. A person convicted of an attempt may be fined or
imprisoned or both, not to exceed the maximum provided for the offense
attempted. If the fine exceeds that set forth in §
130.99 below, however, the village shall enforce the offense under the
provisions of state law.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 8-4) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this title for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   The penalty for violation of §
131.01(C) shall be a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $750. In addition
to the fine, the offender may be ordered by the court to pay restitution to the
property owner for the costs of restoring the property to its state prior to
the application of graffiti.
         (b)   The penalty for violation of §
131.01(D) shall be a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $750 and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
         (c)   The penalty for violation of §
131.01(E) or (F) shall be a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $750.
      (2)   Any person convicted of violating any provision of §
131.02 shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined not less than $10
nor more than $750.
      (3)   Any person violating §
131.04 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $750. Furthermore, if the
person is not the owner of the building being used for gang-related activity,
the court may order the offender to pay restitution to the owner for the costs
of any damage caused by the gang-related activity, unless the owner knew or
should have known that the activity was taking place and negligently or
willfully failed to notify the village of the occurrence of the activities.
      (4)   Any person convicted of violating §
131.06 shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined not less than $50
nor more than $750.
(Ord. 1994-16, passed 9-13-1994)
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of § 136.01 shall, on
conviction thereof, be fined not less than $5, nor more than $750, and each day
or part of the day that any provisions of any of § 132.01 shall be violated
shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 13, passed 10-2-1950)
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
137.05 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not exceeding
$750.
(Ord. 1040-A, passed 12-7-1982)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES PERTAINING TO PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Damage of firefighting apparatus, hydrants, or equipment
   
131.02   Trespass to land
   
131.03   Damaging village property
   
131.04   Jackrocks
§ 131.01 DAMAGE OF FIREFIGHTING APPARATUS, HYDRANTS, OR EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall wilfully and maliciously cut, injure, damage, tamper with,
destroy, or deface any fire hydrant, fire hose, fire engine, or other public or
private firefighting equipment, or any apparatus appertaining to such
equipment, or intentionally open any fire hydrant without proper authorization.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-1.1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.02 TRESPASS TO LAND.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(3) below, whoever commits any
of the following commits a Class B misdemeanor:
         (a)   Knowingly and without lawful authority enters or remains within
or on a building;
         (b)   Enters upon the land of another, after receiving prior to the
entry notice from the owner or occupant that the entry is forbidden;
         (c)   Remains upon the land of another, after receiving notice from
the owner or occupant to depart; or
         (d)   Presents false documents or falsely represents his or her
identity orally to the owner or occupant of a building or land in order to
obtain permission from the owner or occupant to enter or remain in the building
or on the land. This division (A)(1)(d) does not apply to a peace officer or
other official of a unit of government who enters a building or land in the
performance of his or her official duties.
      (2)   For purposes of this division (A), this section shall not apply to
being in a building which is open to the public while the building is open to
the public during its normal hours of operation, nor shall this section apply
to a person who enters a public building under the reasonable belief that the
building is still open to the public.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever enters upon
any of the following areas in or on a motor vehicle (including an off-road
vehicle, motorcycle, moped, or any other powered 2-wheel vehicle) after
receiving, prior to that entry, notice from the owner or occupant that the
entry is forbidden or remains upon or in the area after receiving notice from
the owner or occupant to depart, commits a Class A misdemeanor:
         (a)   A field that is used for growing crops or that is capable of
being used for growing crops;
         (b)   An enclosed area containing livestock;
         (c)   An orchard; or
         (d)   A barn or other agricultural building containing livestock.
   (B)   A person has received notice from the owner or occupant within the
meaning of division (A) of this section if the person has been notified
personally, either orally or in writing, including a valid court order as
defined by ILCS Ch. 725, Act 5, § 112A-3(7) granting remedy (2) of ILCS Ch.
725, Act 5, § 112A-14(b), or if a printed or written notice forbidding entry
has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at the main entrance to the land or
the forbidden part thereof.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any person, whether a migrant worker or
otherwise, living on the land with permission of the owner or of the owner’s
agent having apparent authority to hire workers on the land and assign them
living quarters or a place of accommodations for living thereon, nor to anyone
living on the land at the request of or by occupancy, leasing, or other
agreement or arrangement with the owner or the owner’s agent, nor to anyone
invited by the migrant worker or other person so living on the land to visit
him or her at the place that person is so living upon the land.
   (D)   (1)   A person shall be exempt from prosecution under this section if
the person beautifies unoccupied and abandoned residential and industrial
properties located within any municipality.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (D), UNOCCUPIED AND ABANDONED
RESIDENTIAL AND INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY means any real estate:
         (a)   In which the taxes have not been paid for a period of at least 2
years; and
         (b)   Which has been left unoccupied and abandoned for a period of at
least 1 year.
      (3)   For the purpose of this division (D), BEAUTIFIES means to
landscape, to clean up litter, or to repair dilapidated conditions on or to
board up windows and doors.
   (E)   No person shall be liable in any civil action for money damages to the
owner of unoccupied and abandoned residential and industrial property which
that person beautifies pursuant to division (D) of this section.
   (F)   This section does not prohibit a person from entering a building or
upon the land of another for emergency purposes. For purposes of this division
(F), EMERGENCY means a condition or circumstance in which an individual is or
is reasonably believed by the person to be in imminent danger of serious bodily
harm or in which property is or is reasonably believed to be in imminent danger
of damage or destruction.
   (G)   (1)   A person may be liable in any civil action for money damages to
the owner of the land he or she entered upon with a motor vehicle as prohibited
under division (A)(3) of this section. A person may also be liable to the owner
for court costs and reasonable attorney’s fees.
         (a)   The measure of damages shall be:
            1.   The actual damages, but not less than $250, if the vehicle is
operated in a nature preserve or registered area as defined in ILCS Ch. 525,
Act 30, §§ 3.11 and 3.14;
            2.   Twice the actual damages if the owner has previously notified
the person to cease trespassing; or
            3.   In any other case, the actual damages, but not less than $50.
         (b)   If the person operating the vehicle is under the age of 16, the
owner of the vehicle and the parent or legal guardian of the minor are jointly
and severally liable.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (G), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning:
         LAND. Includes but is not limited to land used for crop land, fallow
land, orchard, pasture, feed lot, timber land, prairie land, mine spoil nature
preserves and registered areas. LAND does not include driveways or private
roadways upon which the owner allows the public to drive.
          OWNER.  The person who has the right to possession of the land,
including the owner, operator or tenant.
          VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as provided under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5,
§ 1-217.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.03 DAMAGING VILLAGE PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly damage any village property without the village’s
consent;
      (2)   Recklessly, by means of fire or explosion, damage village property
without the village’s consent;
      (3)   Knowingly start a fire on village land without the consent of the
village; or
      (4)   Knowingly deposit on village land or in a village building any
stink bomb or any offensive- smelling compound which thereby tends to interfere
with the use by the village of its land or buildings.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, PROPERTY means anything of value
including but not limited to real estate, money, commercial instruments,
written instruments representing or embodying rights concerning anything of
value, labor, or services, things affixed to or found on land or part of or
affixed to any building, electricity, gas, or water.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional prohibitions; felonies, see ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-1
§ 131.04 JACKROCKS.
   (A)   A person who knowingly sells, gives away, manufactures, purchases, or
possesses a jackrock or who knowingly places, tosses, or throws a jackrock on
public or private property commits a Class A misdemeanor.
   (B)   As used in this section, JACKROCK means a caltrop or other object
manufactured with 1 or more rounded or sharpened points, which when placed or
thrown present at least 1 point at such an angle that it is peculiar to and
designed for use in puncturing or damaging vehicle tires. It does not include a
device designed to puncture or damage the tires of a vehicle driven over it in
a particular direction, if a conspicuous and clearly visible warning is posted
at the device’s location, alerting persons to its presence.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the possession, transfer, or use of
jackrocks by any law enforcement officer in the course of his or her official
duties.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-1.4) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
Gangs
   
132.01   Graffiti prohibited
   
132.02   Curfew
   
132.03   Parental responsibility
   
132.04   Public nuisance
   
132.05   Loitering
   
132.06   Disorderly conduct
GANGS
§ 132.01 GRAFFITI PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GRAFFITI. Any sign, symbol, marking, drawing, name, initial, word,
diagram, sketch, picture, or letter placed, without the express, written
permission of the owner, upon the real or personal property of the owner.
   (B)   Graffiti in public view is hereby declared to be a nuisance as set
forth in the ordinances of the Village of Diamond and subject to the provisions
of the village ordinances regarding nuisances and abatement thereof.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place graffiti upon the real or
personal, public or private property of another.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for the owner and/or occupant of fixed real or
personal property which is in public view to place or give permissions for the
placement of any graffiti on the property without having first obtained a
properly issued sign permit.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, while in any public
building or public building or public facility or while on private property, a
spray paint container, paint, ink, or marking pen which contains a non-water
soluble fluid, brush applicator, or any other material for marking, scratching,
or etching with the intent to use the material in violation of divisions (C)
and/or (D) above.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for anyone under the age of 18 to purchase or
possess any spray paint container, paint, ink, or marking pen which contains a
non-water soluble fluid unless under the supervision of a parent, legal
guardian, or teacher.
(Ord. 1994-16, passed 9-13-1994) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.02 CURFEW.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CURFEW HOURS.
         (a)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. Saturday;
         (b)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Sunday; and
          (c)   Between 11:00 p.m. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and 6:00
a.m. on the following day.
       EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes but is not limited to
a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
       ESTABLISHMENT.  Any privately-owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited, including but not limited to any place
of amusement or entertainment.
       GUARDIAN.
         (a)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or
          (b)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
a court.
       MINOR. Any person under 17 years of age.
      PARENT.  A person who is:
         (a)   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or step-parent of another
person; or
         (b)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian
to have the care and custody of a minor.
       PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of
the public has access and includes but is not limited to streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
      REMAIN.
         (a)   To linger or stay; or
         (b)   To fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
       SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
    (B)   Offenses.
      (1)   A minor commits an offense if he or she remains in any public place
or on the premises of any establishment during curfew hours. A minor under 16
years of age commits an offense if he or she remains in any public place or on
the premises of any establishment between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. on the
following day, 7 days a week.
(Ord. 2010-17, passed 11-23-2010)
      (2)   A parent or guardian of a minor or other person in custody or
control of a minor commits an offense if he or she knowingly permits the minor
to remain in any public place or on the premises of any establishment during
curfew hours.
    (C)   Defenses.  It is a defense to prosecution under division (B) above
that the minor was:
       (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent, guardian or other person in
custody or control of the minor;
       (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
        (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
       (4)   Engaged in an employment activity or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
       (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
       (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental
agency, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor, or going to or returning home from, without any
detour or stop, an official school, religious, or other recreational activity
supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental agency, a
civic organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor;
       (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
       (9)   Married or had been married or is an emancipated minor under the
Emancipation of Minors Act.
    (D)   Enforcement.  Before taking any enforcement action under this
section, a law enforcement officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and
reason for being in the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or
make an arrest under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that
an offense has occurred and that, based on any response and other
circumstances, no defense in division (C) is present.
   (E)   Penalty. A person convicted of a violation of any provision of this
section shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined not less than $10
nor more than $500, except that neither a person who has been made a ward of
the court under ILCS Ch. 705, Act 405, §§ 1-1 et seq., nor that person’s legal
guardian, shall be subject to any fine. In addition to or instead of the fine
imposed by this section, the court may order a parent, legal guardian, or other
person convicted of a violation of division (B) of this section to perform
community service as determined by the court, except that the legal guardian of
a person who has been made a ward of the court under ILCS Ch. 705, Act 405, §§
1-1 et seq. may not be ordered to perform community service. The dates and
times established for the performance of community service by the parent, legal
guardian, or other person convicted of a violation of division (B) of this
section shall not conflict with the dates and times that the person is employed
in his or her regular occupation.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 555, § 1)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose curfew, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-1-5
§ 132.03 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LEGAL GUARDIAN. A person appointed guardian, or given custody, of a minor
by a circuit court of the state, but does not include a person appointed
guardian, or given custody, of a minor under the Illinois Juvenile Court Act of
1987.
      MINOR. A person who is above the age of 11 years, but not yet 19 years of
age.
   (B)   The parent or legal guardian of any unemancipated minor who resides
with the parent or legal guardian is liable for actual damages for the willful
or malicious acts of the minor which cause injury to a person or property.
   (C)   No recovery under this section may exceed $2,500 actual damages for
each person or legal entity for each occurrence of the willful or malicious
acts by the minor causing injury, in addition to taxable court costs. In
determining the damages to be allowed in an action under this Act for personal
injury, only medical, dental, and hospital expenses and expenses for treatment
by Christian Science practitioners and nursing care appropriate thereto may be
considered.
   (D)   This Act shall not affect the recovery of damages in any other course
of action where the liability of the parent or legal guardian is predicated on
a common law or statutory basis.
   (E)   Section 12-107 of the Illinois Code of Civil Procedure (ILCS Ch. 735,
Act 5, § 12-107), as now or hereafter amended, is not applicable to judgments
obtained under this section.
(ILCS Ch. 740, Act 115, §§ 1 through 7) (Ord. 1994-16, passed 9-13-1994)
§ 132.04 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GANG-RELATED ACTIVITIES. Those activities which are conducted with the
intent to increase the gang’s size or dominance, or with the intent to provide
the gang with an advantage in the criminal market sector, or with the intent to
obstruct or indirectly cause any benefit or gain to or for the gang.
      STREET GANG. Any combination, confederation, alliance, or understanding
in law or in fact, that through its members or through the agency of any member
and at the direction, order, or request of any member engage in criminal
activity.
   (B)   (1)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance for any person, whether
alone or in consort with others, to engage in gang-related activities in a
dwelling or other building.
      (2)   The person, whether he or she be either the owner, agent, or
occupant of any such dwelling or building, shall be deemed guilty of
maintaining a public nuisance, and may be penalized as hereinafter provided.
   (C)   Whenever such a nuisance exists or is found to exist within the County
of Grundy, the court is hereby authorized to cause the same to be abated in the
manner as the Sheriff may direct or as otherwise authorized by the laws of the
State of Illinois.
(Ord. 1994-16, passed 9-13-1994) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.05 LOITERING.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for a person to loiter in a
public place in a manner and under circumstances manifesting the purpose of
illegally using, possessing, transferring, or selling any cannabis or
controlled substance. Among the circumstances which may be considered in
determining whether such a purpose is manifested are:
      (1)   The person repeatedly attempts to stop or engage in conversation
with passerby, are on foot or in a motor vehicle or other form of
transportation for the purpose of inducing, enticing, soliciting, or procuring
another to illegally possess, transfer, or buy any cannabis or controlled
substances; or
      (2)   The person repeatedly passes to or receives from passersby, whether
the passersby are on foot or in a motor vehicle or other form of
transportation, money, objects or written material for the purposes of
inducing, enticing, soliciting, or procuring another of illegally possess,
transfer, or buy any cannabis or a controlled substance.
   (B)   A person shall not have violated this subchapter unless he or she
demonstrates expressly or implicitly a specific intent to induce, entice,
solicit, or procure another to illegally possess, transfer, or buy cannabis or
a controlled substance.
(Ord. 1994-16, passed 9-13-1994) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.06 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   A person commits disorderly conduct when he or she knowingly:
      (1)   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace;
      (2)   Enters upon the property of another, and for a lewd or unlawful
purpose deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it;
      (3)   While acting as a collection agency as defined in the Collection
Agency Act, or as an employee of such collection agency, and while attempting
to collect an alleged debt, makes a telephone call to the alleged debtor which
is designed to harass, annoy or intimidate the alleged debtor;
      (4)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted a false report to the
Department of Public Health under ILCS Ch. 210, Act 45, §§ 1-101 et seq.;
      (5)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted a false report under Article
II of “An Act in relation to victims of violence and abuse,” approved September
16, 1984, as amended;
      (6)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted a false report to any public
safety agency without the reasonable grounds necessary to believe that
transmitting the report is necessary for the safety and welfare of the public;
or
      (7)   Calls the number “911” for the purpose of making or transmitting a
false alarm or complaint and reporting information when, at the time the call
or transmission is made, the person knows there is no reasonable ground for
making the call or transmission and further knows that the call or transmission
could result in the emergency response of any public safety agency.
   (B)   In addition to any penalty imposed as set forth in §
130.99, any person convicted of disorderly conduct shall be ordered by the
court to perform community service, as set forth under the provisions of ILCS
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 26-1.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 26-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
133.01   Resisting or obstructing a peace officer or correctional institution
employee
   
133.02   Refusing to aid an officer
   
133.03   Tampering with public notice
§ 133.01 RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER OR CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION
EMPLOYEE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall knowingly resist or obstruct the performance by
one known to the person to be a peace officer or correctional institution
employee of any authorized act within his or her official capacity.
      (2)   In addition to any other sentence that may be imposed, a court
shall order any person convicted of resisting or obstructing a peace officer to
be sentenced to a minimum of 48 consecutive hours of imprisonment or ordered to
perform community service for not less than 100 hours as may be determined by
the court. The person shall not be eligible for probation in order to reduce
the sentence of imprisonment or community service.
      (3)   A person convicted for a violation of this section whose violation
was the proximate cause of injury to a peace officer is guilty of a Class 4
felony.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the term CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION
EMPLOYEE shall mean any person employed to supervise and control inmates
incarcerated in a penitentiary, state farm, reformatory, prison, jail, house of
correction, police detention area, half-way house, or other institution or
place for the incarceration or custody of persons under sentence for offenses
or awaiting trial or sentence for offenses, under arrest for an offense, a
violation of probation, a violation of parole, or a violation of mandatory
supervised release, or awaiting a bail setting hearing or preliminary hearing,
or who are sexually dangerous persons or who are sexually violent persons.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 31-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.02 REFUSING TO AID AN OFFICER.
   No person, upon command, shall refuse or knowingly fail reasonably to aid a
person known by him or her to be a police officer in:
   (A)   Apprehending a person whom the officer is authorized to apprehend; or
   (B)   Preventing the commission by another of any offense.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 31-8) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.03 TAMPERING WITH PUBLIC NOTICE.
   No person shall knowingly and without lawful authority alter, destroy,
deface, remove, or conceal any public notice posted according to law, during
the time for which the notice was to remain posted.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 32-9) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
134.01   Public indecency
   
134.02   Obscenity
   
134.03   Harmful material
§ 134.01 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   Any person of the age of 17 years and upwards who performs any of the
following acts in a public place commits a public indecency:
      (1)   An act of sexual penetration or sexual conduct as defined in ILCS
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-12; or
      (2)   A lewd exposure of the body done with intent to arouse or to
satisfy the sexual desire of the person.
   (B)   Breast-feeding of infants is not an act of public indecency.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place where the conduct may reasonably be expected to
be viewed by others.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-9) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.02 OBSCENITY.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person commits obscenity when, with
knowledge of the nature or content thereof, or recklessly failing to exercise
reasonable inspection which would have disclosed the nature or content thereof,
he or she:
      (1)   Sells, delivers, or provides, or offers or agrees to sell, deliver,
or provide any obscene writing, picture, record, or other representation or
embodiment of the obscene;
      (2)   Presents or directs an obscene play, dance or other performance or
participates directly in that portion thereof which makes it obscene;
      (3)   Publishes, exhibits, or otherwise makes available anything obscene;
      (4)   Performs an obscene act or otherwise presents an obscene exhibition
of his or her body for gain;
      (5)   Creates, buys, procures, or possesses obscene matter or material
with intent to disseminate it in violation of this section, or of the penal
laws or regulations of any other jurisdiction; or
      (6)   Advertises or otherwise promotes the sale of material represented
or held out by him or her to be obscene, whether or not it is obscene.
   (B)   Obscene defined. Any material or performance is OBSCENE if:
      (1)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that, taken as a whole, it appeals to the prurient
interest;
      (2)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that it depicts or describes, in a patently offensive
way, ultimate sexual acts or sadomasochistic sexual acts, whether normal or
perverted, actual or simulated, or masturbation, excretory functions, or lewd
exhibition of the genitals; and
      (3)   Taken as a whole, it lacks serious literary, artistic, political,
or scientific value.
   (C)   Interpretation of evidence.
      (1)   Obscenity shall be judged with reference to ordinary adults except
that it shall be judged with reference to children or other specially
susceptible audiences if it appears from the character of the material or the
circumstances of its dissemination to be specially designed for or directed to
such an audience.
      (2)   Where circumstances of production, presentation, sale,
dissemination, distribution, or publicity indicate that material is being
commercially exploited for the sake of its prurient appeal, the evidence is
probative with respect to the nature of the matter and can justify the
conclusion that the matter is lacking in serious literary, artistic, political,
or scientific value.
      (3)   In any prosecution for an offense under this section, evidence
shall be admissible to show:
         (a)   The character of the audience for which the material was
designed or to which it was directed;
         (b)   What the predominant appeal of the material would be for
ordinary adults or a special audience, and what effect, if any, it would
probably have on the behavior of those people;
         (c)   The artistic, literary, scientific, educational, or other merits
of the material, or absence thereof;
         (d)   The degree, if any, of public acceptance of the material in this
state;
         (e)   Appeal to prurient interest, or absence thereof, in advertising
or other promotion of the material;
         (f)   Purpose of the author, creator, publisher, or disseminator.
   (D)   Prima facie evidence. The creation, purchase, procurement, or
possession of a mold, engraved plate, or other embodiment of obscenity
specially adapted for reproducing multiple copies, or the possession of more
than 3 copies of obscene material shall be prima facie evidence of an intent to
disseminate.
   (E)   Affirmative defenses. It shall be an affirmative defense to obscenity
that the dissemination:
      (1)   Was not for gain and was made to personal associates other than
children under 18 years of age;
      (2)   Was to institutions or individuals having scientific or other
special justification for possession of such material.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-20) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.03 HARMFUL MATERIAL.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DISTRIBUTE. Transfer possession of, whether with or without
consideration.
       HARMFUL TO MINORS. That quality of any description or representation, in
whatever form, of nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement, or sado-
masochistic abuse when, taken as a whole, it does the following:
         (a)   Predominately appeals to the prurient interest in sex of minors;
         (b)   Is patently offensive to prevailing standards in the adult
community in the state as a whole with respect to what is suitable material for
minors; and
         (c)   Lacks serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value
for minors.
       KNOWINGLY. Having knowledge of the contents of the subject matter, or
recklessly failing to exercise reasonable inspection which would have disclosed
the contents.
      MATERIAL.
         (a)   Any picture, photograph, drawing, sculpture, film, video game,
computer game, video or similar visual depiction, including any such
representation or image which is stored electronically; or
         (b)   Any book, magazine, printed matter however reproduced, or
recorded audio of any sort.
       MINOR. Any person under the age of 18.
      NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or
buttocks with less than a full opaque covering, or the showing of the female
breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any portion below the top of
the nipple, or the depiction of covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state.
       SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person clad
in undergarments, a mask or bizarre costume, or the condition of being
fettered, bound, or otherwise physically restrained on the part of one clothed
for sexual gratification or stimulation.
       SEXUAL CONDUCT. Acts of masturbation, sexual intercourse, or physical
contact with a person’s clothed or unclothed genitals, pubic area, buttocks or,
if the person be a female, breast.
       SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals when
in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
    (B)   A person is guilty of distributing harmful material to a minor when
he or she does either of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly sells, lends, distributes, or gives away to a minor any
of the following, knowing that the minor is under the age of 18 or failing to
exercise reasonable care in ascertaining the person’s true age:
          (a)   Any material which depicts nudity, sexual conduct or sado-
masochistic abuse, or which contains explicit and detailed verbal descriptions
or narrative accounts of sexual excitement, sexual conduct or sado-masochistic
abuse, and which taken as a whole is harmful to minors;
          (b)   A motion picture, show, or other presentation which depicts
nudity, sexual conduct or sado-masochistic abuse and is harmful to minors; or
          (c)   An admission ticket or pass to premises where there is
exhibited or to be exhibited such a motion picture, show, or other
presentation.
       (2)   Admits a minor to premises where there is exhibited or to be
exhibited such a motion picture, show, or other presentation, knowing that the
minor is a person under the age of 18 or failing to exercise reasonable care in
ascertaining the person’s true age.
    (C)   In any prosecution arising under this section, it is an affirmative
defense:
      (1)   That the minor as to whom the offense is alleged to have been
committed exhibited to the accused a draft card, driver’s license, birth
certificate, or other official or apparently official document purporting to
establish that the minor was 18 years of age or older, which was relied upon by
the accused;
       (2)   That the defendant was in a parental or guardianship relationship
with the minor or that the minor was accompanied by a parent or legal guardian;
       (3)   That the defendant was a bona fide school, museum, or public
library, or was a person acting in the course of his or her employment as an
employee or official of such organization or retail outlet affiliated with and
serving the educational purpose of the organization;
      (4)   That the act charged was committed in aid of legitimate scientific
or educational purposes; or
       (5)   That an advertisement of harmful material as defined in this
section culminated in the sale or distribution of the harmful material to a
child under circumstances where there was no personal confrontation of the
child by the defendant, his or her employees, or agents, as where the order or
request for the harmful material was transmitted by mail, telephone, internet,
or similar means of communication, and delivery of the harmful material to the
child was by mail, freight, internet, or similar means of transport, which
advertisement contained the following statement, or a substantially similar
statement, and that the defendant required the purchaser to certify that he or
she was not under the age of 18 and that the purchaser falsely stated that he
or she was not under the age of 18: “NOTICE: It is unlawful for any person
under the age of 18 to purchase the matter advertised. Any person under the age
of 18 that falsely states that he or she is not under the age of 18 for the
purpose of obtaining the material advertised is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor
under the laws of the state.”
    (D)   The predominant appeal to prurient interest of the material shall be
judged with reference to average children of the same general age of the child
to whom the material was sold, lent, distributed, or given, unless it appears
from the nature of the matter or the circumstances of its dissemination or
distribution that it is designed for specially susceptible groups, in which
case the predominant appeal of the material shall be judged with reference to
its intended or probable recipient group.
   (E)   Distribution of harmful material in violation of this section is a
Class A misdemeanor.
   (F)   Any person under the age of 18 who falsely states, either orally or in
writing, that he or she is not under the age of 18, or that presents or offers
to any person any evidence of age and identity that is false or not actually
his or her own for the purpose of ordering, obtaining, viewing, or otherwise
procuring or attempting to procure or view any harmful material is guilty of a
Class B misdemeanor.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-21) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Distribution of harmful material, second or subsequent offense, a Class 4
felony, see ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-21
CHAPTER 135: GAMBLING OFFENSES
Section
   
135.01   Definitions
   
135.02   Gambling
   
135.03   Keeping a gambling place
   
135.04   Seizure of gambling devices and gambling funds
§ 135.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS. Has the meaning ascribed to it in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 16D-2.
   COMPUTER. Has the meaning ascribed to it in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 16D-2.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. Any clock, tape machine, slot machine, or other machines or
device for the reception of money or other thing of value on chance or skill,
or upon the action of which money or other thing of value is staked, hazarded,
bet, won, or lost; or any mechanism, furniture, fixture, equipment, or other
device designed primarily for use in a gambling place. A GAMBLING DEVICE does
not include the following, as more specifically defined in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5,
§ 28-2(a)(1) through (a)(4):
      (1)   Coin-in-the-slot operated mechanical devices;
      (2)   Vending machines;
      (3)   Crane games; and
      (4)   Redemption machines.
   INTERNET. An interactive computer service or system or an information
service, system, or access software provider that provides or enables computer
access by multiple users to a computer server, including but not limited to an
information service, system, or access software provider that provides access
to a network system commonly known as the internet or any comparable system or
service, and also including but not limited to a world-wide web page,
newsgroup, message board, mailing list, or chat area on any interactive
computer service or system or other online service.
   LOTTERY. Any scheme or procedure whereby 1 or more prizes are distributed by
chance among persons who have paid or promised consideration for a chance to
win such prizes, whether such scheme or procedure is called a lottery, raffle,
gift, sale, or some other name.
   POLICY GAME. Any scheme or procedure whereby a person promises or guarantees
by any instrument, bill, certificate, writing, token, or other device that any
particular number, character, ticket, or certificate shall, in the event of any
contingency in the nature of a lottery, entitle the purchaser or holder to
receive money, property, or evidence of debt.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-2)
§ 135.02 GAMBLING.
   (A)   A person commits gambling when, within the corporate limits of the
village, he or she:
      (1)   Plays a game of chance or skill for money or other thing of value,
unless excepted in division (B) of this section;
      (2)   Makes a wager upon the result of any game, contest, or any
political nomination, appointment, or election;
      (3)   Operates, keeps, owns, uses, purchases, exhibits, rents, sells,
bargains for the sale or lease of, manufactures, or distributes any gambling
device;
      (4)   Contracts to have or give himself or herself or another the option
to buy or sell, or contracts to buy or sell, at a future time, any grain or
other commodity whatsoever, or any stock or security of any company, as
described in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-1(a)(4);
      (5)   Knowingly owns or possesses any book, instrument, or apparatus by
means of which bets or wagers have been or are recorded or registered, or
knowingly possesses any money which he or she has received in the courses of a
bet or wager;
      (6)   Sells pools upon the result of any game or contest of skill or
chance, political nomination, appointment, or election;
      (7)   Sets up or promotes any lottery or sells, offers to sell, or
transfers any ticket or share for any lottery;
      (8)   Sets up or promotes any policy game or sells, offers to sell, or
knowingly possesses or transfers any policy ticket, slip, record, document, or
other similar device;
      (9)   Knowingly drafts, prints, or publishes any lottery ticket or share,
or any policy ticket, slip, record, document or similar device, except for such
activity related to lotteries, bingo games, and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of Illinois or any other state or foreign
government;
      (10)   Knowingly advertises any lottery or policy game, except for
activity related to lotteries, bingo games, and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of Illinois or any other state;
      (11)   Knowingly transmits information as to wagers, betting odds, or
changes in betting odds by telephone, telegraph, radio, semaphore, or similar
means; or knowingly installs or maintains equipment for the transmission or
receipt of the information; except that nothing in this division prohibits
transmission or receipt of the information for use in news reporting of
sporting events or contests; or
      (12)   Knowingly establishes, maintains, or operates an internet site
that permits a person to play a game of chance or skill for money or other
thing of value by means of the internet or to make a wager upon the result of
any game, contest, political nomination, appointment, or election by means of
the internet.
   (B)   Participants in any of the following activities shall not be convicted
of gambling:
      (1)   Agreements to compensate for loss caused by the happening of
chance, including without limitation contracts of indemnity or guaranty and
life, health, or accident insurance;
      (2)   Offers of prizes, awards, or compensation to the actual contestants
in any bona fide contest for the determination of skill, speed, strength, or
endurance or to the owners of animals or vehicles entered in the contest;
      (3)   Pari-mutuel betting as authorized by the law of this state;
      (4)   Manufacture of gambling devices, including the acquisition of
essential parts therefor and the assembly thereof, for transportation in
interstate or foreign commerce to any place outside this state when the
transportation is not prohibited by any applicable federal law;
      (5)   The game commonly known as “bingo,” when conducted in accordance
with ILCS Ch. 230, Act 25, §§ 1 et seq.;
      (6)   Lotteries when conducted by the state in accordance with ILCS Ch.
20, Act 1605, §§ 1 et seq.;
      (7)   Possession of an antique slot machine that is neither used nor
intended to be used in the operation or promotion of any unlawful gambling
activity or enterprise. For the purpose of this division, an ANTIQUE SLOT
MACHINE is one manufactured 25 years ago or earlier;
      (8)   Raffles when conducted in accordance with ILCS Ch. 230, Act 15, §§
1 et seq.;
      (9)   Charitable games when conducted in accordance with ILCS Ch. 230,
Act 30, §§ 1 et seq.; and
      (10)   Pull tabs and jar games when conducted under ILCS Ch. 230, Act 20,
§§ 1 et seq.;
      (11)   Gambling games conducted on riverboats when authorized under ILCS
Ch. 230, Act 10, §§ 1 et seq.; and
      (12)   Activity that is lawfully conducted under the Video Gaming Act if
such activity complies with all requirements of the Video Gaming Act, ILCS Ch.
230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq.
   (C)   Circumstantial evidence. In prosecutions under division (A) of this
section, circumstantial evidence shall have the same validity and weight as in
any criminal prosecution.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-1) (Am. Ord. 2012-26, passed 7-10-2012)  Penalty,
see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Second and subsequent offenses of §
135.02(A)(3) through (A)(11), felonies, see ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-1
§ 135.03 KEEPING A GAMBLING PLACE.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, a GAMBLING PLACE is any real estate,
vehicle, boat, or any other property whatsoever used for the purposes of
gambling. No person shall knowingly permit any premises or property owned or
occupied by him or her or under his or her control to be used as a gambling
place.
   (B)   When any premises is determined by the circuit court to be a gambling
place:
      (1)   The premises is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and may be
proceeded against as such; and
      (2)   The premises of any person who knowingly permits thereon a
violation of any section of this chapter shall be held liable for and may be
sold to pay any unsatisfied judgment that may be recovered and any unsatisfied
fine that may be levied under any section of this chapter.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.04 SEIZURE OF GAMBLING DEVICES AND GAMBLING FUNDS.
   (A)   Every device designed for gambling which is incapable of lawful use or
every device used unlawfully for gambling shall be considered a gambling device
and shall be subject to seizure, confiscation, and destruction by village
authorities. As used in this section, a GAMBLING DEVICE includes any slot
machine and includes any machine or device constructed for the reception of
money or other thing of value and so constructed as to return or cause someone
to return on chance to the player thereof money, property, or a right to
receive money or property. With the exception of any device designed for
gambling which is incapable of lawful use, no gambling device shall be
forfeited or destroyed unless an individual with a property interest in the
device knows of the unlawful use thereof.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-5(a))
   (B)   Every gambling device shall be seized and forfeited as contraband to
the county wherein the seizure occurs. Any money or other thing of value
integrally related to acts of gambling shall be seized and forfeited as
contraband to the county wherein the seizure occurs.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-5(b))
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
136.01   Generally
Litter
   
136.15   Definitions
   
136.16   Dumping or depositing of litter prohibited; exemptions
   
136.17   Dumping or depositing litter from motor vehicle prohibited
   
136.18   Accumulation of litter prohibited
   
136.19   Presumption of violation by operator throwing litter from motor
vehicle
   
136.20   Receptacles required in public areas
   
136.21   Power of court to order removal of litter
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 136.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person shall dig, fill up, or injure any drain, ditch, or hole, or
injure any bridge or culvert in any of the streets, alleys, avenues, or public
places in the village, or dig or remove from the same any sod, earth, sand, or
gravel, without first having obtained special permission from the Village
Commission, for that purpose; and no person shall stop or obstruct passage of
the water of any public street, gutter, sewer, culvert, water pipe, or hydrant,
nor shall any person scatter, strew, deposit, or litter, or direct, permit, or
suffer to be scattered, strewn, deposited, or littered in any public street,
alley, avenue, or public place, any ashes, rubbish, tin cans, bottles, or other
foreign material.
   (B)   No person shall blast any rock, stone, or other substance, within the
village, without first having obtained special permission for that purpose from
the Village Commission.
   (C)   No person shall remove, or cause to be removed, or aid or assist in
removing any building into, or along or across any street, alley, public ground
in the village, without first having obtained special permission for that
purpose from the Village Commission, and conforming to the conditions and
restrictions they may prescribe.
   (D)   No person shall uncover, excavate under, around, or near to any ditch,
drain, or culvert without special permission for that purpose from the Village
Commission; nor shall any person make any connection with or any opening into
any drain, ditch, sluice, culvert, or slough, nor shall any person construct or
make any ditch, drain, or sluice, except by special permission for that purpose
from the Village Commission; nor shall any person destroy or injure the bank of
any ditch or open drain, or place any dirt or other substance therein to
obstruct the same, or obstruct the free passage of water through the same, or
tap any ditch or open drain, or connect any private drain sewer or ditch
therewith without special permission for that purpose from the Village
Commission.
   (E)   No person shall encumber or obstruct, or cause to be encumbered or
obstructed, any street, alley, avenue, way, or other public place within the
village, by placing therein or thereon, any buildings, materials, timber,
lumber, or any article or things whatever, without first having obtained
special permission for that purpose from the Village Commission.
   (F)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage, approval, and publication according to law.
(Ord. 13, passed 10-2-1950) Penalty, see §
130.99
LITTER
§ 136.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of §§
136.15 through
136.21 the following words and phrases shall have the following meanings
ascribed to them respectively.
   LITTER.  
      (1)   Any discarded, used, or unconsumed substance or waste.
      (2)   LITTER may include but is not limited to any garbage, trash,
refuse, debris, rubbish, grass clippings, or other lawn or garden waste;
newspaper, magazines, glass, metal, plastic or paper containers, or other
packaging construction material, abandoned vehicle as defined in ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, §§ 1-100 et seq., motor vehicle parts, furniture, oil, carcass of a dead
animal, any nauseous or offensive matter of any kind; any object likely to
injure any person or create a traffic hazard; potentially infectious medical
waste as defined in ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.360; or anything else of an
unsightly or unsanitary nature, which has been discarded, abandoned, or
otherwise disposed of improperly.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 3)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. As defined in
Chapter 70 of this Code of Ordinances.
§ 136.16 DUMPING OR DEPOSITING OF LITTER PROHIBITED; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, leave, cause, or
permit the dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing, discarding, or leaving of
litter upon any public or private property in this village, or upon or into any
river, lake, pond, or other stream or body of water in this village unless:
      (1)   The property has been designated by the village or any of its
agencies for the disposal of litter, and the litter is disposed of on that
property in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the State
Pollution Control Board;
      (2)   The litter is placed into a receptacle or other container intended
by the owner or tenant in lawful possession of that property for the deposit of
litter;
      (3)   The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of the
property or has first obtained the consent of the owner or tenant in lawful
possession, or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner
or tenant and does not create a public health or safety hazard, a public
nuisance, or a fire hazard;
      (4)   The person is acting under the direction of proper public officials
during special cleanup days; and/or
      (5)   The person is lawfully acting in or reacting to an emergency
situation where health and safety is threatened, and removes and properly
disposes of any litter, including but not limited to potentially infectious
medical waste as defined in ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.360, when the emergency
situation no longer exists.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 4)
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be fined not
less than $10 nor more than $500.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 8(a))
§ 136.17 DUMPING OR DEPOSITING LITTER FROM MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, or otherwise
dispose of litter from any motor vehicle upon any public highway, upon any
public or private property or upon or into any river, lake, pond, stream, or
body of water in this village except as permitted under §
136.16 (A)(1) through (5). Nor shall any person transport, by any means,
garbage or refuse from any dwelling, residence, place of business, farm, or
other site to and deposit the material in, around, or on top of trash barrels
or other receptacles placed along public highways or at roadside rest areas.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 5)
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be fined not
less than $10 nor more than $500.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 8(a))
§ 136.18 ACCUMULATION OF LITTER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall allow litter to accumulate upon real property, of
which the person charged is the owner or tenant in control, in such a manner as
to constitute a public nuisance or in such a manner that the litter may be
blown or otherwise carried by the natural elements on to the real property of
another person.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 6)
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be fined not
less than $10 nor more than $500.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 8(a))
§ 136.19 PRESUMPTION OF VIOLATION BY OPERATOR THROWING LITTER FROM MOTOR
VEHICLE.
   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped from any motor
vehicle not carrying passengers for hire, the presumption is created that the
operator of that motor vehicle has violated §
136.17, but that presumption may be rebutted.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 9)
§ 136.20 RECEPTACLES REQUIRED IN PUBLIC AREAS.
   (A)   In order to assist the public in complying with this chapter, the
owner or person in control of any property which is held out to the public as a
place for assemblage, the transaction of business, recreation, or as a public
way shall cause to be placed and maintained receptacles for the deposit of
litter of sufficient volume and in sufficient numbers to meet the needs of the
numbers of people customarily coming on or using the property.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, PROPERTY HELD OUT TO THE PUBLIC FOR THE
TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS includes but is not limited to commercially operated
parks, campgrounds, drive-in restaurants, automobile service stations, business
parking lots, car washes, shopping centers, marinas, boat launching areas,
industrial parking lots, boat moorage and fueling stations, piers, beaches and
bathing areas, airports, roadside rest stops, drive-in movies, and shopping
malls; and PROPERTY HELD OUT TO THE PUBLIC FOR ASSEMBLAGE, RECREATION, OR AS A
PUBLIC WAY includes but is not limited to any property that is publicly owned
or operated for any of the purposes stated in the definition in this division
for PROPERTY HELD OUT TO THE PUBLIC FOR THE TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS but
excludes state highway rights-of-way and rest areas located thereon.
   (C)   If no litter receptacles are placed on property described in this
section, the owner or person in control of the property shall be fined $100 for
violating this section. If the owner or person in control of the property has
placed litter receptacles on his or her property but the number or size of the
receptacles has proved inadequate to meet the needs of the numbers of people
coming on or using his or her property as indicated by the condition and
appearance of that property, and the owner or person in control has failed to
provide sufficient or adequate receptacles within 10 days after being made
aware of that fact by written notice from the police, he or she shall be fined
$25 for each receptacle not so provided and maintained.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 10)
§ 136.21 POWER OF COURT TO ORDER REMOVAL OF LITTER.
   The penalties prescribed in this chapter are in addition to, and not in lieu
of any penalties, rights, remedies, duties, or liabilities which may be
otherwise imposed or conferred by a court.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 8(c))
CHAPTER 137: WEAPONS
Section
Deadly Weapons
   
137.01   Unlawful use of weapons
   
137.02   Exemptions
   
137.03   Unlawful possession of firearms and firearm ammunition
   
137.04   Confiscation and disposition of weapons
   
137.05   Hunting prohibited
Air Rifles
   
137.15   Definitions
   
137.16   Selling, renting, or transferring to children; prohibition
   
137.17   Carrying or discharging on public streets
   
137.18   Permitted possession
   
137.19   Permitted sales
   
137.20   Seizure and removal
Statutory reference:
   Boarding aircraft with weapons, see ILCS Ch. 720, Act 545, §§ 0.01 through 7
   Firearms and ammunition registration, see ILCS Ch. 430, Act 65, §§ 0.01
through 16-3
DEADLY WEAPONS
§ 137.01 UNLAWFUL USE OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly:
      (1)   Sell, manufacture, purchase, possess, or carry any bludgeon, black-
jack, slung-shot, sand- club, sand-bag, metal knuckles, throwing star, or any
knife, commonly referred to as a switch-blade knife, which has a blade that
opens automatically by hand pressure applied to a button, spring, or other
device in the handle of the knife; or a ballistic knife, which is a device that
propels a knifelike blade as a projectile by means of a coil spring, elastic
material or compressed gas, but which shall not be deemed to include crossbows,
common or compound bows and/or underwater spearguns in accordance with ILCS Ch.
720, Act 5, § 24-1(e);
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(1))
      (2)   Carry or possess with intent to use the same unlawfully against
another: a dagger, dirk, billy, dangerous knife, razor, stiletto, broken bottle
or other piece of glass, stun gun or taser, or any other dangerous or deadly
weapon or instrument of like character;
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(2))
      (3)   Carry on or about his or her person or in any vehicle, a tear gas
gun projector or bomb or any object containing noxious liquid gas or substance,
other than an object containing a non-lethal noxious liquid gas or substance
designed solely for personal defense carried by a person 18 years of age or
older;
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(3))
      (4)   Carry or possess in any vehicle or concealed on or about his
person, except when on his or her land or in his or her own abode or fixed
place of business, any pistol, revolver, stun gun, taser, or other firearm,
except that this division (A)(4) does not apply to or affect transportation of
weapons that meet 1 of the following conditions:
         (a)   Are broken down in a nonfunctioning state;
         (b)   Are not immediately accessible; or
         (c)   Are unloaded and enclosed in a case, firearm carrying box,
shipping box, or other container by a person who has been issued a currently
valid firearm owner’s identification card.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(4))
      (5)   Set a spring gun;
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(5))
      (6)   (a)   Carry or possess any firearm, stun gun or taser or other
deadly weapon in any place which is licensed to sell intoxicating beverages, or
at any public gathering held pursuant to a license issued by any governmental
body or any public gathering at which an admission is charged, excluding a
place where a showing, demonstration, or lecture involving the exhibition of
unloaded firearms is conducted.
         (b)   This division does not apply to any auction or raffle of a
firearm held pursuant to a license or permit issued by a governmental body, nor
does it apply to persons engaged in firearm safety training courses.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(8))
      (7)   Carries or possesses on or about his or her person, upon any public
street, alley, or other public lands within the corporate limits of a city,
village or incorporated town, except when an invitee thereon or therein, for
the purpose of the display of such weapon or the lawful commerce in weapons, or
except when on his or her land or in his or her own abode or fixed place of
business, any pistol, revolver, stun gun or taser or other firearm, except that
this division (A)(7) does not apply to or affect transportation of weapons that
meet 1 of the following conditions:
          (a)   Are broken down in a nonfunctioning state;
         (b)   Are not immediately accessible; or
         (c)   Are unloaded and enclosed in a case, firearm carrying box,
shipping box, or other container by a person who has been issued a currently
valid firearm owner’s identification card.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(10))
      (8)   Sell, manufacture, or purchase any explosive bullet. EXPLOSIVE
BULLET shall mean the projectile portion of an ammunition cartridge which
contains or carries an explosive charge which will explode upon contact with
the flesh of a human or an animal. CARTRIDGE means a tubular metal case having
a projectile affixed at the front thereof and a cap or primer at the rear end
thereof, with the propellant contained in the tube between the projectile and
the cap.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(11))
   (B)   A STUN GUN or TASER, as used in division (A), means:
      (1)   Any device which is powered by electrical charging units, such as
batteries, and which fires 1 or several barbs attached to a length of wire and
which, upon hitting a human, can send out a current capable of disrupting the
person’s nervous system in such a manner as to render him or her incapable of
normal functioning; or
      (2)   Any device which is powered by electrical charging units, such as
batteries, and which, upon contact with a human or clothing worn by a human,
can send out a current capable of disrupting the person’s nervous system in
such a manner as to render him or her incapable of normal functioning.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(10)) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Provisions concerning silencers on guns; machine guns; bombs; possession of
weapon while hooded, robed and/or masked; or possession of weapons on school or
university grounds (all of which are felonies), see ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 24-
1(a)(6), (7), and (9) and § 24-1(c), respectively
§ 137.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Section
137.01, divisions (A)(3), (A)(4) and (A)(7) do not apply to or affect any of
the following:
      (1)   Peace officers or any person summoned by a peace officer to assist
in making arrests or preserving the peace while actually engaged in assisting
the officer;
      (2)   Wardens, superintendents, and keepers of prisons, penitentiaries,
jails, and other institutions for the detention of persons accused or convicted
of an offense, while in the performance of their official duty, or while
commuting between their homes and places of employment;
      (3)   Members of the armed services or reserve forces of the United
States or the Illinois National Guard or the Reserve Officers Training Corps,
while in the performance of their official duty;
      (4)   Special agents employed by a railroad or a public utility to
perform police functions or guards of armored car companies while actually
engaged in the performance of the duties of their employment or commuting
between their homes and places of employment; watchmen while actually engaged
in the performance of the duties of their employment;
      (5)   Persons licensed as private security contractors, private
detectives or private alarm contractors or employed by an agency certified by
the Department of Professional Regulation if their duties include the carrying
of a weapon under the provisions of the Private Detective, Private Alarm,
Private Security, and Locksmith Act of 2004, ILCS Chapter 225, Act 447, §§ 5-
5 et seq., while actually engaged in the performance of the duties of their
employment or commuting between their homes and places of employment, provided
that the commuting is accomplished within 1 hour from departure from home or
place of employment, as the case may be. Persons exempted under this division
shall be required to have completed a course of study in firearms handling and
training approved and supervised by the Department of Professional Regulation
as prescribed by ILCS Chapter 225, Act 447, §§ 5-5 et seq., prior to becoming
eligible for this exemption. The Department of Professional Regulation shall
provide suitable documentation demonstrating the successful completion of the
prescribed firearms training. This documentation shall be carried at all times
when the persons are in possession of a concealable weapon;
      (6)   Any person regularly employed in a commercial or industrial
operation as a security guard for the protection of persons employed and
private property related to that commercial or industrial operation while
actually engaged in the performance of their duty or traveling between sites or
properties belonging to the employer, and who, as a security guard, is a member
of a security force of at least 5 persons registered with the Department of
Professional Regulation; provided, that the security guard has successfully
completed a course of study, approved by and supervised by the State Department
of Professional Regulation, consisting of not less than 40 hours of training
which shall include theory of law enforcement, liability for acts, and the
handling of weapons. A person shall be considered to be in compliance with this
section who has completed the required 20 hours of training for a security
officer and 20 hours of required firearm training and who has been issued a
firearm authorization card by the state Department of Professional Regulation.
Conditions for the renewal of firearm authorization cards issued under the
provisions of this section shall be the same as for those cards issued under
the provisions of ILCS Chapter 225, Act 447, §§ 5-5 et seq. This firearm
authorization card shall be carried by the security guard at all times when he
or she is in possession of a concealable weapon;
      (7)   Agents and investigators of the Illinois Legislative Investigating
Commission authorized by the Commission to carry the weapons specified in §
137.01(A)(3) and (A)(4) while on duty in the course of any investigation for
the Commission;
      (8)   Persons employed by a financial institution for the protection of
other employees and property related to that financial institution, while
actually engaged in the performance of their duties, commuting between their
homes and places of employment, or traveling between sites or properties owned
or operated by the financial institution, provided that any person so employed
has successfully completed a course of study, approved by and supervised by the
State Department of Professional Regulation, consisting of not less than 40
hours of training which includes theory of law enforcement, liability for acts,
and the handling of weapons. A person shall be considered to be eligible for
this exemption who has completed the required 20 hours of training for a
security officer and 20 hours of required firearm training and who has been
issued a firearm authorization card by the State Department of Professional
Regulation. Conditions for renewal of firearm authorization cards issued under
the provisions of this section shall be the same as for those issued under the
provisions of ILCS Chapter 225, Act 447, §§ 5-5 et seq. This firearm
authorization card shall be carried by the person so trained at all times when
the person is in possession of a concealable weapon. For purposes of this
division, FINANCIAL INSTITUTION means a bank, savings and loan association,
credit union, or company providing armored car services;
      (9)   Any person employed by an armored car company to drive an armored
car while actually engaged in the performance of his or her duties;
      (10)   Persons who have been classified as peace officers pursuant to
ILCS Ch. 20, Act 2910, §§ 0.01 et seq.;
      (11)   Investigators of the Office of the State’s Attorneys Appellate
Prosecutor authorized by the board of governors of the Office of the State’s
Attorneys Appellate Prosecutor to carry weapons pursuant to ILCS Ch. 725, Act
210, §§ 1 et seq.;
      (12)   Special investigators appointed by a State’s Attorney under ILCS
Ch. 55, Act 5, § 3-9005;
      (13)   Probation officers while in the performance of their duties, or
while commuting between their homes, places of employment or specific locations
that are part of their assigned duties, with the consent of the Chief Judge of
the circuit for which they are employed;
      (14)   Court security officers while in the performance of their official
duties or while commuting between their homes and places of employment, with
the consent of the Sheriff;
      (15)   A person employed as an armed security guard at a nuclear energy,
storage, weapons, or development site or facility regulated by the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission who has completed the background screening and training
mandated by the rules and regulations of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission; or
      (16)   Manufacture, transportation, or sale of weapons to persons
authorized under (A)(1) through (A)(15) of this section to possess those
weapons.
   (B)   Section
137.01(A)(1) does not apply to the purchase, possession, or carrying of a
black-jack or slung-shot by a police officer.
   (C)   Section
137.01(A)(6) does not apply to any owner, manager, or authorized employee of
any place specified in that division or to any law enforcement officer.
   (D)   Section
137.01, divisions (A)(4) and (A)(7) do not apply to members of any club or
organization organized for the purpose of practicing shooting at targets upon
established target ranges, whether public or private, while using their
firearms on those target ranges.
   (E)   Section
137.01(A)(8) does not apply to:
      (1)   Members of the armed services or reserve forces of the United
States or the Illinois National Guard, while in the performance of their
official duty;
      (2)   Bona fide collectors of antique or surplus military ordnance;
      (3)   Laboratories having a department of forensic ballistics, or
specializing in the development of ammunition or explosive ordnance; or
      (4)   Commerce, preparation, assembly, or possession of explosive bullets
by manufacturers of ammunition licensed by the federal government, in
connection with the supply of those organizations and persons exempted by
division (E)(1) above, or like organizations and persons outside this state, or
the transportation of explosive bullets to any organization or person exempted
in this section by a common carrier or by a vehicle owned or leased by an
exempted manufacturer.
   (F)   An information or indictment based upon a violation of any provision
of this subchapter need not negate any exemptions contained in this subchapter.
The defendant shall have the burden of proving such an exemption.
   (G)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit, apply to, or affect the
transportation, carrying, or possession of any pistol or revolver, stun gun,
taser, or other firearm consigned to a common carrier operating under license
with the state or the federal government where such transportation, carrying,
or possession is incident to the lawful transportation in which the common
carrier is engaged. Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit, apply to, or
affect the transportation, carrying, or possession of any pistol, revolver,
stun gun, taser, or other firearm not the subject of and regulated by ILCS Ch.
720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(7), which is unloaded and enclosed in a case, firearm
carrying box, shipping box, or other container by the possessor of a valid
firearm owner’s identification card.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-2)
§ 137.03 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF FIREARMS AND FIREARM AMMUNITION.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of unlawful possession of firearms or
firearm ammunition when:
      (1)   He or she is under 18 years of age and has in his or her possession
any firearm of a size which may be concealed upon the person;
      (2)   He or she is under 21 years of age, has been convicted of a
misdemeanor other than a traffic offense or adjudged delinquent, and has any
firearms or firearm ammunition in his or her possession;
      (3)   He or she is a narcotic addict and has any firearms or firearm
ammunition in his or her possession;
      (4)   He or she has been a patient in a mental hospital within the past 5
years and has any firearms or firearm ammunition in his or her possession;
      (5)   He or she is mentally retarded and has any firearms or firearm
ammunition in his or her possession; or
      (6)   He or she has in his or her possession any explosive bullet. For
the purposes of this section, EXPLOSIVE BULLET means the projectile portion of
an ammunition cartridge which contains or carries an explosive charge which
will explode upon contact with the flesh of a human or an animal. CARTRIDGE
means a tubular metal case having a projectile fixed at the front thereof and a
cap or primer at the rear end thereof with the propellent contained in the tube
between the projectile and the cap.
   (B)   Unlawful possession of firearms, other than handguns, and firearm
ammunition is punishable under §
130.99. Unlawful possession of handguns is a felony punishable under
appropriate state law. The possession of each firearm or firearm ammunition in
violation of this section constitutes a single and separate violation.
   (C)   Nothing in division (A)(1) above prohibits a person under 18 years of
age from participating in any lawful recreational activity with a firearm such
as but not limited to practice shooting at targets upon established public or
private target ranges or hunting, trapping, or fishing in accordance with ILCS
Ch. 520, Act 5 or ILCS Ch. 515, Act 5.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-3.1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 137.04 CONFISCATION AND DISPOSITION OF WEAPONS.
   Upon conviction of an offense in which a weapon was used or possessed by the
offender, any weapon seized may be confiscated by the trial court for further
disposition consistent with state law.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-6)
§ 137.05 HUNTING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to hunt any game, wild birds, or wild mammals as
defined in the State of Illinois Game Code, within the Village of Diamond.
(Ord. 1040-A, passed 12-7-1982) Penalty, see §
130.99
AIR RIFLES
§ 137.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR RIFLE. Any air gun, air pistol, spring gun, spring pistol, B.B. gun,
pellet gun, or any implement that is not a firearm, which impels a pellet
constructed of hard plastic, steel, lead, or other hard materials with a force
that reasonably is expected to cause bodily harm.
   DEALER. Any person, copartnership, association, or corporation engaged in
the business of selling at retail or renting any of the articles included in
the definition of AIR RIFLE.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 535, § 1)
§ 137.16 SELLING, RENTING, OR TRANSFERRING TO CHILDREN; PROHIBITION.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any dealer to sell, lend, rent, give, or otherwise
transfer an air rifle to any person under the age of 13 years where the dealer
knows or has cause to believe the person to be under 13 years of age or where
the dealer has failed to make reasonable inquiry relative to the age of the
person and the person is under 13 years of age.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to sell, give, lend, or otherwise
transfer any air rifle to any person under 13 years of age except where the
relationship of parent and child, guardian and ward, or adult instructor and
pupil exists between the person and the person under 13 years of age, or where
the person stands in loco parentis to the person under 13 years of age.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 535, § 2) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 137.17 CARRYING OR DISCHARGING ON PUBLIC STREETS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person under 13 years of age to carry any air
rifle on the public streets, roads, highways, or public lands within this
village, unless the person under 13 years of age carries the rifle unloaded.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to discharge any air rifle from or
across any street, sidewalk, road, highway, or public land or any public place
except on a safely constructed target range.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 535, § 3)
   (C)   Any person convicted of violating this section shall pay a fine not to
exceed $50.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 535, § 7) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 137.18 PERMITTED POSSESSION.
   Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter, it is lawful for any person
under 13 years of age to have in his or her possession any air rifle if it is:
   (A)   Kept within his or her house of residence or other private enclosure;
   (B)   Used by the person under 13 years of age and he or she is a duly
enrolled member of any club, team, or society organized for educational
purposes and maintaining as part of its facilities or having written permission
to use an indoor or outdoor rifle range under the supervision, guidance and
instruction of a responsible adult, and then only if the air rifle is actually
being used in connection with the activities of the club, team, or society
under the supervision of a responsible adult; or
   (C)   Used in or on any private grounds or residence under circumstances
when the air rifle is fired, discharged, or operated in a manner as not to
endanger persons or property and then only if it is used in a manner as to
prevent the projectile from passing over any grounds or space outside the
limits of such grounds or residence.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 535, § 4)
§ 137.19 PERMITTED SALES.
   The provisions of §§
137.15 through
137.19 do not prohibit sales of air rifles:
   (A)   By wholesale dealers or jobbers;
   (B)   To be shipped out of the state; or
   (C)   To be used at a target range operated in accordance with ILCS Ch. 720,
Act 535, § 4 or by members of the armed services of the United States or
veterans’ organizations.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 535, § 5)
§ 137.20 SEIZURE AND REMOVAL.
   Any police officer shall seize, take, remove, or cause to be removed at the
expense of the owner, any air rifle sold or used in any manner in violation of
this chapter.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 535, § 6)
CHAPTER 138: DRUG OFFENSES
Section
Synthetic Alternative Drugs
   
138.01   Purpose
   
138.02   Definitions
   
138.03   Prohibition
   
138.04   Enforcement
 
   
138.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Brand names or identifiers of synthetic alternative drugs
SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUGS
§ 138.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted to protect, preserve and promote the health, safety
and welfare of the citizens of the village by prohibiting the possession,
distribution or delivery of any synthetic stimulants, synthetic cannabinoids
and/or synthetic psychedelics/hallucinogens as hereinafter defined, it being
the specific finding of the village that such substances have a dangerous
effect upon anyone using them.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 1-24-2012)
§ 138.02 DEFINITIONS.
   When used in this chapter, the following words have the meanings hereinafter
provided.
   DELIVER. The actual, constructive or attempted transfer from 1 person to
another of any synthetic cannabinoid, any synthetic stimulant, and/or any
synthetic psychedelic/hallucinogen, whether or not there is an agency
relationship and includes a sale.
   DISTRIBUTE. To deliver other than by dispensing or administering any
synthetic cannabinoid, any synthetic stimulant, and/or any synthetic
psychedelic/hallucinogen.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership or association, or any other entity.
   POSSESS. With the knowledge of the presence and nature of a substance,
either actually or constructively in control of a substance. A person has
actual possession if he or she has the substance on his or her person or within
easy reach and convenient control. A person who, although not in actual
possession, has the power and intention at a given time to exercise dominion or
control over the substance, either directly or through another person or
persons, is in the constructive possession of it.
   PRODUCT CONTAINING A SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUG. Any product containing a
synthetic cannabinoid, synthetic stimulant or synthetic psychedelic/
hallucinogen, as those terms are defined herein, such as, but not limited to,
the examples of brand names or identifiers listed on Appendix A to this
chapter.
   SYNTHETIC CANNABINOID. Any laboratory-created compound that functions
similar to the active ingredient in marijuana, tetrahydrocannabinol (THC),
including but not limited to, any quantity  of a natural or synthetic material,
compound, mixture, preparation, substance and their analog (including isomers,
esters, ethers, salts, and salts of isomers) containing a cannabinoid receptor
agonist, such as:
      (1)   JWH-007 (l-pentyl-2-methyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole);
      (2)   JWH-015 ((2-Methyl-1-propyl-1H-indol-3-yl)-1-
naphthalenylmethanone);
      (3)   JWH-018 (1-pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole);
      (4)   JWH-019 (1-hexyl-3-(naphthalene-1-oyl)indole);
      (5)   JWH-073 (naphthalene-1-yl-(l-butylindol-3-yl)methanone);
      (6)   JWH-081 (4-methoxynaphthalen-1-yl-(1-pentylindol-3-yl)methanone);
      (7)   JWH-098 (4-methoxynaphthalen-l-yl(l-pentyl-2-methylindol-3-
yl)methanone);
      (8)   JWH-122 (1Pentyl-3-(4-methyl-l-naphthoyl)indole);
      (9)   JWH-164 (7-methoxynaphthalen-1-yl-(pentylindol-3-yl)methanone);
      (10)   JWH-200 (1-(2-morpholin-4-ylethyl)indol-3-yl)-naphthalen-l-
ylmethanone);
      (11)   JWH-203 (2-(2-chlorophenyl)-l-(1-pentylindol-3-yl)ethanone);
      (12)   JWH-210 (4-ethylnaphthalen-1-yl-(1-pentylindol-3-yl)methanone);
      (13)   JWH-250 (1-pently-3-(2-methoxyphenylacetyl)indole);
      (14)   JWH-251 (l-pentyl-3-(2-methylphenylacetyl)indole);
      (15)   JWH-398 (l-pentyl-3-(4chloro-l-naphthoyl)indole);
      (16)   HU-210 ((6aR,10aR)-9-(Hydroxymethyl)-6,6-dimethyl-3-(2-
methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10,10a-tetrahydrobenzo[c]chromen-1-ol);
      (17)   HU-211 ((6aS,10aS)-9-(Hydroxymethyl)-6,6-dimethyl-3-(2-
methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10,10a-tetrahydrobenzo[c]chromen-1-ol);
      (18)   HU-308 ([(1R,2,5R)-2-[2,6-dimethoxy-4-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)phenyl]-
7,7-dimethyl-4-
bicyclo[3.1.1]hept-3-enyl]methanol);
      (19)   HU-331 ((3-hydroxy-2[(lR,6R)-3-methyl-6-(l-methylethenyl)-2-
cyciohexen-l-
yl]-5-pentyl-2,5-cyclohexadiene-l,4-dione);
      (20)   CP 55,940(2-[(lR,2R,5R)-5-hydroxy-2-(3-hydroxypropyl)cyclohexyl]-
5-(2-
methyloctan-2-yl)phenol);
      (21)   CP 47,497(2-[(1R,3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]-5-(2-methyloctan-2-
yl)phenol) and its
homologues;
      (22)   WIN 55,212-2(R-(+)-[2,3-Dihydro-5-,methyl-3-(4-
morphhalinylmethyl)pyrrolo[1,2,3-
de)-1,4-benzoxazin-6-yl]-1-nepthalenylmethanone);
       (23)   RCS-4 ((4-methoxyphenyl)(1-pentyl-1H-indol-3-yl)methanone);
       (24)   RCS-8 (l-(l-(2-cyclohexylethyl)-lH-indol-3-yl)-2-
(methoxyphenyl)ethanone).
   SYNTHETIC PSYCHEDELIC/HALLUCINOGEN. Any compound that mimics the effects of
any federally controlled Schedule I substance, including but not limited to,
any quantity of a natural or synthetic material, compound, mixture,
preparation, substance and its analog (including salts, isomers, esters, ethers
and salts of isomers) containing substances that have a psychedelic/
hallucinogenic effect on the central nervous system and/or brain, such as:
      (1)   2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-ethylphenyl)ethanamine (2C-E);
      (2)   2-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-methylphenyl)ethanamine (2C-D);
      (3)   2-(4-Chloro-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethanamine (2C-C);
      (4)   2-(4-Iodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethanamine (2C-I);
      (5)   2-(4-(Ethylthio)-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethanamine (2C-T-2);
      (6)   2-(4-(Isopropylthio)-2,5-dimethoxyphenyI)ethanamine (2C-T-4);
      (7)   2-(2,5-Dimethoxyphenyl)ethanamine (2C-H);
      (8)   2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-nitro-phenyl)ethanamine (2C-N);
      (9)   2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-(n)-propylphenyl)(2C-P).
   SYNTHETIC STIMULANT. Any compound that mimics the effects of any federally
controlled Schedule I substance, such as cathinone, methcathinone, MDMA and
MDEA, including but not limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic
material, compound, mixture, preparation, substance and its analog (including
salts, isomers, and salts of isomers) containing substances that have a
stimulant effect on the central nervous system, such as:
      (1)   3-Fluoromethcathinone;
      (2)   4-Fluoromethcathinone (other name: flephedrone);
      (3)   3,4-Methylenedioxymethcathinone (other names: methylone, MDMC);
      (4)   3,4-Methylenedioxypyrovalerone (other name: MDPV);
      (5)   4-Methylmethcathinon (other names: mephedrone, 4-MMC);
      (6)   4-Methoxymethcathinone (other names: methedrone, bk-PMMA, PMMC);
      (7)   4-Ethylmethcathinone (other name: 4-EMC);
      (8)   Ethcathinone;
      (9)   Beta-keto-N-methylbenzodioxyolylpropylamine (other names: butylone,
bk-MBDB);
      (10)   Napthylpyrovalerone (other names: naphyrone, NRG-1);
      (11)   N,N-dimethylcathinone (other name: metamfepramone);
      (12)   Alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name: alpha-PPP);
      (13)   4-methoxy-alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name: MOPPP);
      (14)   3,4-methylenedioxy-alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name:
MDPPP);
      (15)   Alpha-pyirrolidinovalerophenone (other name: alpha-PVP);
      (16)   6,7-kihydro-5H-indeno(5,6-d)-l,3-dioxal-6-amine (other name:
MDAI);
      (17)   Any compound that is structurally derived from 2-amino-1-phenyl-1-
propanone by modification or substitution in any of the following ways:
         (a)   In the phenyl ring to any extent with alkyl, alkoxy,
alkylenedioxy, haloalkyl, or halide substituents, whether or not further
substituted in the phenyl ring by 1 or more other univalent substituents;
         (b)   At the 3-position with an alkyl substituent;
         (c)   At the nitrogen atom with alkyl, dialkyl, benzyl or
methoxybenzyl groups; or
         (d)   By inclusion of the nitrogen atom in a cyclic structure.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 1-24-2012)
§ 138.03 PROHIBITION.
   (A)   Sale or delivery prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to
sell, offer for sale or deliver any product containing a synthetic cannabinoid,
synthetic stimulant or synthetic psychedelic/ hallucinogen.
   (B)   Possession prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to possess
a product containing a synthetic cannabinoid, synthetic stimulant or synthetic
psychedelic/hallucinogen.
   (C)   Use prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to be under the
influence of a synthetic cannabinoid, synthetic stimulant or synthetic
psychedelic/hallucinogen.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 1-24-2012) Penalty, see §
138.99
§ 138.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement of this chapter shall be by any law enforcement officer
acting in his or her official capacity, when a violation of the chapter is
observed or reported in the village.
   (B)   The law enforcement officer shall issue a citation with a court date
not less 21 days or more than 45 days from the date of the ordinance violation.
The accused must appear on the court date before the presiding judge in the
Grundy County Circuit Court or Will County Circuit Court, as may be the case.
If a violator wishes a hearing to contest the violation, he or she must file a
written request for a hearing within 21 days of the issuance of the citation
with the Circuit Clerk of Grundy County or the Circuit Clerk of Will County, as
the case may be, with a copy to the Grundy County State's Attorney or the Will
County State's Attorney, as the case may be. At the trial on the merits of the
citation, the Illinois Civil Rules of Procedure will apply, and the standard of
proof would be by a preponderance of the evidence.
   (C)   If the violator wishes to admit the violation of the ordinance, he or
she may avoid a court appearance by working out the appropriate fine with the
State's Attorneys Office, who may agree that the fine be paid over the counter
to the Grundy County Treasurer or the Will County Treasurer, as the case may
be.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 1-24-2012)
§ 138.99 PENALTY. 
   Any person, firm or corporation that violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with, or that resists the enforcement of any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be fined as listed below. Each day a violation
of this chapter occurs, or everyday a violation continues to exist, shall
constitute a new and separate violation.
   (A)   First offense: $500 and confiscation of all prohibited materials.
   (B)   Second and all subsequent offenses: $1,000 and confiscation of all
prohibited materials.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 1-24-2012)
APPENDIX A: BRAND NAMES OR IDENTIFIERS OF SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUGS
2010                             Earth Impact
8-Ball                           Earthquake
Aroma                            Eruption Spice
Aztec Gold                       Euphoria
Aztec Midnight Wind Tezcatlipoca exSES
Back Draft                       Ex-SES Platinum
Bad 2 the Bone                   EX-SES Platinum Blueberry
Banana Cream Nuke                EX-SES Platinum Cherry
Bayou Blaster                    EX-SES Platinum Strawberry
Black Diamond                    EX-SES Platinum Vanilla
Black Magic Salvia               Fake Weed
Black Mamba                      Fire Bird Ultimate Strength Cinnamon
Blaze                            Freedom
Bliss                            Fully Loaded
Blueberry Hayze                  Funky Monkey
Blue Lotus                       Funky MonkeyXXXX
Bombay Blue                      G Four
Buzz                             G Greenies Caramel Crunch
C3                               Galaxy Gold
C4                               Genie
C4 Herbal Incense                Gold Spirit Spice
Caneff                           Green Monkey Chronic Salvia
Cherry Bomb                      Greenies Strawberry
Chill X                          Heaven Improved
Chronic Spice                    Heavenscent Suave
Cill Out                         Highdis Almdrohner
Citrus                           Humboldt Gold
Colorado Chronic                 Jamaican Gold
Da Block                         K Royal
Dark Night II                    K1 Gravity
Diamond Spirit                   K1 Orbit
Dorillaz                         K2
Dragon Spice                     K2 (unknown variety)
D-Rail                           K2 Amazonian Shelter
Dream                            K2 Blonde
 
K2 Blue                      K3 Mango
K2 Blueberry                 K3 Original
K2 Citron                    K3 Original Improved
K2 Cloud 9                   K3 Strawberry
K2 Kryptonite                K3 Sun
K2 Latte                     K3 Sun Improved
K2 Mellon                    K3 Sun Legal
K2 Mint                      K3 XXX
K2 Orisha Black Magic Max    K4 Bubble Bubble
K2 Orisha Max                K4 Gold
K2 Orisha Regular            K4 Purple Haze
K2 Orisha Super              K4 Silver
K2 Orisha White Magic Super  K4 Summit Remix
K2 Peach                     Kind Spice
K2 Pina Colada               Kronic
K2 Pineapple                 Legal Eagle
K2 Pineapple Express         Legal Eagle Apple Pie
K2 Pink                      Love Potion 69
K2 Pink Panties              Love Strawberry
K2 Sex                       Magic Dragon Platinum
K2 Silver                    Magic Gold
K2 Solid Sex on the Mountain Magic Silver
K2 Standard                  Magic Spice
K2 Strawberry                Mega Bomb
K2 Summit                    Mid-Atlantic Exemplar
K2 Summit Coffee Wonk        Mid-Atlantic Exemplar (K2-Summit)
K2 Thai Dream                Midnight Chill
K2 Ultra                     MNGB Almond/Vanilla
K2 Watermelon                MNGB Peppermint
K3                           MNGB Pinata Colada
K3 Blueberry                 MNGB Spear Mint
K3 Cosmic Blend              MNGB Tropical Thunder
K3 Dusk                      Moe Joe Fire
K3 Grape                     Mojo
K3 Heaven Improved           Moon Rocks
K3 Heaven Legal              Mr. Smiley’s
K3 Kryptonite                MTN-787
K3 Legal                     Mystery
K3 Legal - Earth (Silver)    Naughty Nights
K3 Legal - Original (Black)  New Improved K3 Cosmic Blend
K3 Legal - Sea (Silver)      New Improved K3 Dynamite
K3 Legal - Sun (Black)       New Improved K3 Kryptonite
 
New K3 Earth                     Spice Silver
New K3 Heaven                    Spice Tropical Synergy
New K3 Improved                  Spicey Regular XXX Blueberry
New K3 Sea Improved              Spicey Regular XXX Strawberry
New-Kron Bomb                    Spicey Ultra Strong XXX Strawberry
Nitro                            Spicey Ultra Strong XXX Vanilla
Ocean Blue                       Spicey XXX
p.e.p. pourri Love Strawberry    Spicylicious
p.e.p. pourri Original Spearmint Spike 99
p.e.p. pourri Twisted Vanilla    Spike 99 Ultra
p.e.p. pourri X Blue Berry       Spike 99 Ultra Blueberry
Paradise                         Spike 99 Ultra Cherry
Pink Tiger                       Spike 99 Ultra Strawberry
Potpourri                        Spike Diamond
Potpourri Gold                   Spike Gold
POW                              Spike Maxx
Pulse                            Spike Silver
Rasta Citrus Spice               Stinger
Rebel Spice                      Summer Skyy
Red Bird                         Super Kush
Red Dawn                         Super Summit
S1. S Werve                      Swagger Grape
Samurai Spirit                   SYN Chill
Sativah                          SYN Incense Lemon Lime
Scope                            SYN Incense Smooth
Scope Vanilla                    SYN Incense Spearmint
Scope Wildberry                  SYN Lemon Lime
Sence                            SYN Lemon Lime #2
Shanti Spice                     SYN Smooth
Shanti Spice Bluberry            SYN Spearmint
Silent Black                     SYN Spearmint #2
Skunk                            SYN Suave
Smoke                            SYN Swagg
Smoke Forest Humus               SYN Vanilla
Smoke Plus                       SYN Vanilla #2
Solar Flare                      Texas Gold Demon
Space                            Time Warp
Space Truckin                    Tribal Warrior
Spice Arctic Synergy             Ultra Cloud 10
Spice Diamond                    Unknown Cigarette
Spice Egypt                      Utopia
Spice Gold                       Utopia-Blue Berry
 
Voo Doo Remix (black package)
Voo Doo Remix (orange package)
Voodoo Child
Voodoo Magic
Voodoo Remix
Who Dat
Who Dat Herbal Incense
Wicked X
Winter Boost
Wood Stock
XTREME Spice
Yucatan Fire
Zohai
Zombie World
 
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   ZONING CODE
      
152.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
      
153.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
154.   BUILDING CODE
      
155.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
156.   STREAM AND WETLAND PROTECTION
      
157.   [RESERVED]
      
158.   CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN RIGHTS-OF-WAY
      
159.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
160.   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES IN RIGHTS-OF-WAY
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   School facilities impact fee
   
150.02   Subdivision plat review by Grundy County Emergency Telephone System
Board
   
150.03   Residential construction; design variety
   
150.04   Plumbing inspection and fees authorized
   
150.05   Dedications of school sites
   
150.06   Rapid entry system
   
150.07   Carbon monoxide detectors
   
150.08   Trailer facility impact fee
   
150.09   Construction and replacement of mailboxes in right-of-way
Building Permit Policy
   
150.20   Administrative, building permit, inspection and re-inspection fees;
replacement certificate of occupancy/completion
   
150.21   Fee, permit and inspection schedules
   
150.22   Elevation certification for newly-constructed buildings
   
150.23   Building permit limitations
   
150.24   Residential construction building permit fee deferral program
Development Impact Fee
   
150.35   Purpose and intent
   
150.36   Findings
   
150.37   Applicability
   
150.38   Definitions
   
150.39   Imposition, calculation and collection of impact fees
   
150.40   Impact fee account
   
150.41   Use of impact fee proceeds
   
150.42   Audits
   
150.43   Protests and appeals
   
150.44   Statue of limitations
   
150.45   Amendment procedures
Dangerous Buildings
   
150.65   Definitions
   
150.66   Nuisance
   
150.67   Prohibition
   
150.68   Abatement
   
150.69   Requirements for removal or rebuilding
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 SCHOOL FACILITIES IMPACT FEE.
   (A)   Generally. It shall hereafter be the policy of the Mayor and
Commission of the Village of Diamond to require the payment of a school
facilities impact fee as a condition of the annexation of territory to the
Village of Diamond and approval of a planned unit development with residential
uses. Therefore, the annexation of territory after the effective date of this
section shall be effected pursuant to an annexation agreement requiring the
payment of a school facilities impact fee in substantial accordance with the
provisions set forth in Exhibit “A” of Resolution 2004-21, and the approval of
a planned unit development with residential uses shall require the payment of
the school facilities impact fee in substantial accordance with the provisions
set forth in Exhibit “A” of Resolution 2004-21.
   (B)   School districts to provide indemnification. It shall be a condition
of the receipt of school facilities impact fees that the benefitted school
district defend and indemnify the Village of Diamond from and against any and
all claims or actions brought or asserted against the Village of Diamond in
connection with the establishment, collection, administration, or expenditure
of the school facilities impact fee.
   (C)   Reservation of powers. Nothing herein shall be construed so as to
limit, condition, or impair the exercise of powers conferred on the Village of
Diamond to annex territory, enter into annexation agreements, regulate the
zoning, subdivision, or development of land, or approve planned unit
developments with residential uses, to levy or establish taxes and fees, or to
exercise other municipal functions and powers.
(Res. 2004-21, passed 10-26-2004)
§ 150.02 SUBDIVISION PLAT REVIEW BY GRUNDY COUNTY EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM
BOARD.
   (A)   The recitals in Ordinance 2003-08 are true and correct and constitute
the findings of the Diamond Village Commission, and the same are hereby
restated and realleged as though fully set forth herein.
   (B)   Prior to the approval by the Diamond Village Commission of any
preliminary subdivision plat or final subdivision plat, any such subdivision
plat submitted for consideration of approval to the Diamond Village Commission
shall first be submitted to the Chairperson of the Grundy County Emergency
Telephone System Board, or his or her named designee, for review of street
names, building and lot numbers prior to final approval by the Diamond Village
Commission.
   (C)   No certification contained on any final subdivision plat shall be
executed by any officer, agent, or employee of the Village of Diamond, and no
final subdivision plat shall be recorded with the Grundy County Recorder until
the time as the opinions and recommendations of the Grundy County Emergency
Telephone System Board have been received, reviewed, and considered by the
Village of Diamond.
   (D)   The opinions and recommendation of the Grundy County Emergency
Telephone System Board shall be taken into consideration by the Village of
Diamond, however, the opinions and recommendations shall not be binding upon
the Village of Diamond.
   (E)   The developer shall be responsible for any costs and expenses
associated with the subdivision plat review process as required by this
section, and shall pay the same prior to execution of the certifications
contained on the final subdivision plat.
   (F)   This section shall be effective from and following its passage,
approval, and publication as required by law.
(Ord. 2003-08, passed - -2003)
§ 150.03 RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION; DESIGN VARIETY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to preserve the aesthetically
pleasing character of the Village of Diamond’s residential districts by
promoting same; protect and enhance property values; and promote the easy
identification of house, by encouraging new dwelling unit construction of
distinctive design and discouraging excessive similarity among adjacent
dwellings.
   (B)   Generally. No building permit shall be issued for any new single-
family detached dwelling unit which is similar in appearance to any dwelling on
the same street which is within 2 lots distance of it. A dwelling on a corner
lot may be considered dissimilar to another if the 2 dwellings face different
streets. On cul-de-sac turnarounds, no dwelling shall be similar in appearance
to another dwelling on the turnaround.
   (C)   Similarity standards.
      (1)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         SIMILAR IN APPEARANCE. A dwelling which is identical, or nearly
identical, to another in any 3 of the following characteristics:
            1.   Roof type (gable, hip, mansard, gambrel, flat, combinations);
            2.   Roof height;
            3.   Approximate dimensions (height and length) of the front wall
closest to the front lot line;
            4.   Shape of the front elevation silhouette;
            5.   Relative locations and sizes of windows in the front
elevation;
            6.   Relative location and dimensions of garage door, if included
on the front elevation; and/or
            7.   Type of siding (e.g., brick veneer, lapped horizontal siding,
half-timber, board and batten, shakes, and the like) on the front elevation.
      (2)   Housing styles. If adjacent lots as defined in this ordnance
contain different t housing styles as herein described, the previously
delineated similarity standards do not apply. Housing style is in and of itself
a significant enough characteristic to constitue dissimilarity. Housing styles
shall consist of the following; ranch, bi-level, tri-level, 1 and 1/2 story, 2-
story, and 3-story.
   (D)   Administration.
      (1)   If the Building and Zoning Board, or person acting in that
capacity, finds that the dwelling for which a building permit is requested is
similar in appearance to a dwelling for which a building permit has been issued
within 2 lots distance and facing the same street, the Building and Zoning
Board shall deny to permit request for non-compliance withi this section.
      (2)   An applicant for a building permit that has been denied based on
the provisions of this section may:
         (a)   Alter the dwelling plans so that the proposed dwelling is no
longer similar to another adjacent dwelling, according to the criteria
specified herein; and
         (b)   Appeal the decisions of the Building and Zoning Board to the
Village Commission.
      (3)   In appealing the interpretation of this section to the Village
Commission, an applicant for a building permit shall present evidence
sufficient to demonstrate conformity with this section, such as architectural
drawings.
   (E)   Exceptions.
      (1)   These regulations shall not apply to dwellings for which building
permits have been approved before the effective date of this section, including
dwellings that are being remodeled reconstructed or replaced after fire,
windstorm, or other catastrophe.
      (2)   These regulations may be waived in cases where the applicant for a
building permit could not be expected to anticipate the design of a neighboring
dwelling for which a building permit has already been issued but in not yet
built. In those instances, the builder shall request, and the Village
Commission may grant, an exception from this section.
      (3)   These regulations may be waived for residential planned unit
developments in which similarity of architectural form and style among
dwellings is integral to the success of a unified plan, in which the high
quality of building materials, building plans, and site plan details overcome
the presumed deficiencies of similarity. In those cases, the developer shall
request, and the Village Commission may grant, an exception from this section
as a condition of a planned unit development.
(Ord. 1994-03, passed 5-10-1994) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 PLUMBING INSPECTION AND FEES AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   In addition to all other building permit fees, all persons shall pay
to the village prior to the issuance of a building permit the following amounts
for plumbing inspection: $100 for residential; $150 for commercial; and $200
for industrial. The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Village
Commission, is authorized to retain an independent contractor to perform the
plumbing inspections for the village. The village retains the right to
terminate the services of the independent contractor upon giving 5-days written
notice to him or her.
   (B)   This section shall be published in pamphlet form and shall be in full
force and effect from and after its passage and approval.
(Ord. 1994-01, passed 4-26-1994)
§ 150.05 DEDICATIONS OF SCHOOL SITES.
   (A)   Generally. As a condition of approval of a final plat of subdivision,
or mobile home park or of a final plat of a planned unit development, each
subdivider or developer will be required to dedicate land for land for school
sites, to serve the immediate and future needs of the residents of the
development, or cash contribution in lieu of actual land dedication, or a
combination of both, at the option of the village, in accordance with the
following criteria and formulas.
   (B)   Criteria for requiring school site dedication.
      (1)   Requirement and population ratio. The ultimate number of students
to be generated by a subdivision, mobile home park, or planned unit development
shall bear directly upon the amount of land required to be dedicated for school
sites. The land dedication requirement shall be determined by obtaining the
ratio of estimated children to be served in each school classification over the
maximum recommended number of students to be served in each school
classification as stated herein, and then applying the ratio to the minimum
recommended number of acres for a school site of each school classification as
stated herein. The product thereof shall be the acres of land deemed needed to
have sufficient land for school sites to serve the estimated increased children
in each school classification.
      (2)   School classifications and size of school site. School
classifications and size of school sites within the village shall be determined
in accordance with the following criteria:
 
                        Minimum Number of Students Minimum Number of Acres of
School Classification   for Each School            Land for Each School Site
                        Classification             of the Classification
Elementary Schools,
Grades Kindergarten     600 students               11 acres
through 5 (K - 5)
Junior High Schools,
Grades 6 through 8 (6 - 600 students               21 acres
8)
High Schools, Grades 9  1,500 students             50 acres
through 12 (9 - 12)
 
      (3)   Location. The Comprehensive School Plan and/or the standards
adopted by the affected school district shall be used as a guideline in
locating sites.
   (C)   Criteria for requiring a contribution in lieu of school sites. Where
the development is small and the resulting site is too small to be practical or
when the available land is inappropriate for a school site, the village shall
require the subdivider or developer to pay a cash contribution in lieu of
school sites shall be held in trust by the village, or other public body
designated by the village, solely for use in the acquisition of land for a
school site to serve the immediate or future needs of children from that
subdivision, mobile home park or development or for the improvement to any
existing school site which already serves those needs, but not for the
construction of any school buildings or additions. If any portion of cash
contribution in lieu of school site is not expended for the purposes set forth
herein within 7 years from the date of receipt, it shall be refunded to the
person or corporation who made the contribution.
      (1)   Fair market value. The cash contributions in lieu of land shall be
based on the fair market value of the acres of land in the area improved as
specified herein, that otherwise would have been dedicated as school sites. It
has been determined that the present fair market value of improved land in and
surrounding the village is $10,000 per acre and this figure shall be used in
making any calculation herein unless the subdivider or developer files a
written objection. In the event of any objection the developer shall submit an
appraisal showing the fair market value of improved land in the area of his or
her development or other evidence thereof and final determination of fair
market value per care of improved land shall be made by the Village Commission
based upon information submitted by the subdivider or developer and from other
sources which may be submitted to the Village Commission by the school district
or others.
      (2)   Criteria for requiring dedication and a fee. There will be
situations in subdivisions, mobile home parks, or planned unit developments
when a combination of land dedication and a contribution in lieu of land are
both necessary. These occasions will arise when:
         (a)   Only a portion of the land to be developed is proposed as the
location for school site. That portion of the land within the subdivision
falling within the or school location shall be dedicated as a site as
aforesaid, and a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be required for any
additional land that would have been required to be dedicated; and
         (b)   A major part of the school site has already been acquired and
only a small portion of land is needed from the development to complete the
site. The remaining portions shall be required by dedication, and a cash
contribution in lieu thereof shall be required.
   (D)   Density formula.
      (1)   The following table of population density in Exhibit “A” attached
to Ordinance 1990-10 is generally indicative of current and short-range
projected trends in family size for new construction and shall be used in
calculating the amount of required dedication of acres of land or the cash
contributions in lieu thereof unless a written objection is filed by the
subdivider or developer.
      (2)   In the event a subdivider or developer files a written objection to
the Table of Estimate Ultimate Population listed herein, he or she shall submit
his or her own demographic study showing the estimated additional population to
be generated from the subdivision, mobile home park or planned unit development
and in that event final determination of the density formula to be used in the
calculations shall be made by the Village Commission based upon demographic
information submitted by the subdivider or developer and from other sources
which may be submitted to the Village Commission by the school district, or
others. It is recognized that population density, age distribution, and local
conditions change over the years, and the specific formula for the dedication
of land or the payment of fees in lieu thereof, as stated herein, is subject to
periodic review and amendment if necessary.
   (E)   Presumption. It shall be presumed that the subdivider or developer
intends to construct units with the maximum school age population density
permitted by the ordinances of the Village of Diamond. This presumption may be
overcome by the subdivider or developer specifying the units which shall be
constructed.
   (F)   Reservation of additional land. Where the comprehensive plan or the
standards of the village call for a larger amount of land for a school sites in
a particular subdivision, mobile home park or planned unit development than the
developer is required to dedicate, the land needed beyond the developer’s
contribution shall be reserved for subsequent purchase by the village or other
public body designated by the village, provided that acquisition is made within
one year from the date of approval of the final plat.
   (G)   Combining with adjoining developments. Where the subdivision, mobile
home park, or planned unit development is less than 40 acres, public open space
or a school site which is to be dedicated should, where possible, be combined
with dedications from adjoining developments in order to produce usable
recreation areas or school sites without hardship on a particular developer.
   (H)   Topography and grading. The slope, topography, and geology of the
dedicated site as well as its surroundings must be suitable for its intended
purposes.
   (I)   Improved sites. All sites shall be dedicated in a condition ready for
full service of electrical, water, sewer, and streets (including enclosed
drainage and curb and gutter) as applicable to the location of the site or
acceptable provision made therefore. The sidewalks and trees normally included
within the definition of “improved” sites may be deleted due to the delay time
between dedication of any school site and construction of school facilities
thereon.
   (J)   Improvement requirements. All sites shall be improved in accordance
with requirements of the ordinances of the Village of Diamond or the
requirements imposed thereunder by the Village Commission with the
recommendations of the Diamond Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (K)   Conveyance.
      (1)   Subdivider or developer shall convey to the respective school
districts the land required under this agreement within 30 days after any
subdivision plat or final plat of a planned unit development is recorded in the
Recorder’s Office in Grundy County, Illinois, or conditional use permit is
granted by the Village Commission of Diamond, Illinois.
      (2)   All improvements shall be completed within the time as required by
the village.
      (3)   A subdivider, developer, or lot owner shall make any cash
contributions required under this section upon the issuance of any building
permit by the village.
      (4)   The amount of each payment of cash shall be determined by the
village and subdivider and/or developer at the time of approval of the final
subdivision plat or final plat of a planned unit development or conditional
permitted use for a mobile home park.
      (5)   If the development is of such a size that makes the contribution of
land contribution impractical, then the contribution of cash in lieu of land
shall be made by the purchaser of the lot.
      (6)   The schedule of payments shall be filed in the office of the
Recorder of Deeds, Grundy County, and the office of the Village Clerk of the
Village of Diamond, Illinois.
   (L)   Annexations. The dedications of land or cash contributions in lieu
thereof required by this section shall also be required as a condition to the
annexation of any land to the village and provisions therefore shall be
incorporated in any pre-annexation agreement governing the land.
   (M)   Effective date. This section shall be in full force and effect from
and after its passage, approval, and publication in pamphlet form as provided
by law.
(Ord. 1990-10, passed 7-24-1990)
§ 150.06 RAPID ENTRY SYSTEM.
   (A)   The following structures shall be equipped with a rapid entry system
utilizing the Knox Box rapid entry key box system (“Knox Box”) at or near the
main entrance or such other location required by the Fire Department having
jurisdiction over the structure:
      (1)   All commercial and industrial building. Commercial and industrial
buildings shall mean buildings where any industry, trade or business is carried
on or where any process or operation, directly or indirectly related to any
industry, trade or business, is carried on and where any person is employed by
another for direct or indirect gain or profit.
      (2)   Multi-family residential structures comprised of more than 4 units
in which access to the building or common areas or mechanical or electrical
rooms within the building is denied through locked doors.
      (3)   Any building or facility containing a quantity of hazardous
materials, which would require compliance with Title III of SARA (Superfund
Amendment Reauthorization Act).
      (4)   Governmental structures.
      (5)   Nursing care facilities.
      (6)   Educational facilities.
      (7)   All places of assembly.
   (B)   All newly constructed structures subject to this section shall have
the Knox Box installed and operational prior to final inspection and occupancy.
All existing structures subject to this section shall have the Knox Box
installed and operational within 1 year after the effective date of this
section.
   (C)   The Fire Department having jurisdiction over the structure shall
designate the type of Knox Box system to be implemented and shall have the
authority to require all structures to use the designated system.
   (D)   The owner or operator of a structure required to have a Knox Box shall
at all times, keep keys in the Knox Box that will allow for access to the
following:
      (1)   Keys to locked points of ingress and egress, whether on the
interior or exterior of such structures;
      (2)   Keys to locked mechanical or equipment rooms;
      (3)   Keys to locked electrical rooms;
      (4)   Keys to elevator controls; and
      (5)   Keys to the other areas as directed by the Fire Department having
jurisdiction over the structure.
   (E)   The owner of a structure is responsible for ordering and for the cost
and expense of installing the Knox Box.
   (F)   The Fire Department having jurisdiction over the structure shall be
authorized to implement rules and regulations for the use of the Knox Box
system.
   (G)   All Knox Boxes shall be mounted onto the building/structure at a
height of not less than 6 feet above the ground (surface grade) nor more than 8
feet above the ground (surface grade). All Knox boxes shall be located on the
front of the building structure near the main entry door, on the right-hand
side.
(Ord. 2006-05, passed 2-14-2006) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.07 CARBON MONOXIDE DETECTORS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   APPROVED CARBON MONOXIDE ALARM or ALARM. A carbon monoxide alarm that
complies with all the requirements of the rules and regulations of the State
Fire Marshal, bears the label of a nationally recognized testing laboratory,
and complies with the most recent standards of the Underwriters Laboratories or
the Canadian Standard Association.
   DWELLING UNIT. A room or suite of rooms used for human habitation, and
includes a single family residence as well as each living unit of a multiple
family residence and each living unit in a mixed use building.
   (B)   (1)   Every dwelling unit shall be equipped with at least 1 approved
carbon monoxide alarm in an operating condition within 15 feet of every room
used for sleeping purposes. The carbon monoxide alarm may be combined with
smoke detecting devices provided that the combined unit complies with the
respective provisions of the administrative code, reference standards, and
departmental rules relating to both smoke detecting devices and carbon monoxide
alarms and provided that the combined unit emits an alarm in a manner that
clearly differentiates the hazard.
      (2)   Every structure that contains more than 1 dwelling unit shall
contain at least 1 approved carbon monoxide alarm in operating condition within
15 feet of every room used for sleeping purposes.
      (3)   It is the responsibility of the owner of a structure to supply and
install all required alarms. It is the responsibility of a tenant to test and
to provide general maintenance for the alarms within the tenant's dwelling unit
or rooming unit, and to notify the owner or the authorized agent of the owner
in writing of any deficiencies that the tenant cannot correct. The owner is
responsible for providing 1 tenant per dwelling unit with written information
regarding alarm testing and maintenance. The tenant is responsible for
replacement of any required batteries in the carbon monoxide alarms in the
tenant's dwelling unit, except that the owner shall ensure that the batteries
are in operating condition at the time the tenant takes possession of the
dwelling unit. The tenant shall provide the owner or the authorized agent of
the owner with access to the dwelling unit to correct any deficiencies in the
carbon monoxide alarm that have been reported in writing to the owner or the
authorized agent of the owner.
      (4)   The carbon monoxide alarms required hereunder may be either battery
powered, plug-in with battery back-up, or wired into the structure's
alternating current power line with secondary battery back-up.
      (5)   No building permit, occupancy permit or other approval required by
village ordinance shall be issued with respect to any structure, existing or
proposed, that is not shown by the owner thereof to be in compliance herewith.
   (C)   Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, carbon monoxide
alarms shall not be required in any of the following dwelling units:
      (1)   A residential unit in a building that does not rely on combustion
of fossil fuel for heat, ventilation, or hot water; is not connected in any way
to a garage; and is not sufficiently close to any ventilated source of carbon
monoxide, as determined by the Building Inspector, to receive carbon monoxide
from that source.
      (2)   A residential unit that is not sufficiently close to any source of
carbon monoxide so as to be at risk of receiving carbon monoxide from that
source, as determined by the Building Inspector.
   (D)   It shall be a violation of this section to fail to install or maintain
in operating condition any carbon monoxide alarm required hereunder, or to
tamper with, remove, destroy, disconnect, or remove the batteries from any
installed carbon monoxide alarm, except in the course of inspection,
maintenance, or replacement of the alarm.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 1-9-2007) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.08 TRAILER FACILITY IMPACT FEE.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, the following terms shall have the
stated meanings unless some other meaning is explicitly required or otherwise
necessarily implied:
      (1)   PARKING STALL. An area designated for the parking of a single
trailer but does not include dock areas or regular parking spaces intended for
regular use by automobiles (including, without limitation, semi-tractors and
other automobiles commonly referred to as “trucks,” provided no such vehicle is
attached or coupled to any trailer).
      (2)   TRAILER. Any vehicle that (i) can only be moved if attached to
another motor vehicle and which has been (ii) designed and constructed for the
specific use of hauling or delivering of materials. TRAILER includes, without
limitation, any semi-trailer whether completely enclosed or open on all sides.
      (3)   TRAILER PARKING FACILITY. Any premises that are primarily used for
the purposes of parking and/or storing trailers.
      (4)   TRUCK TERMINAL FACILITY. Any premises (i) on which a trucking
company operates or (ii) that are primarily used for the purposes of parking,
storing, loading, unloading, and dispatching trucks and Trailers. A TRUCK
TERMINAL FACILITY may include, without limitation, related and incidental
facilities such as storage facilities, dormitories, cafeterias, godowns, and
repair shops. TRUCK TERMINAL FACILITY does not include any warehouse or other
building used primarily for short- or long-term storage of materials, products,
or goods for which the parking and/or storage of trailers on the premises is
purely incidental.
   (B)   The owner understands, affirms, and agrees that the owner intends to
construct and/or operate a trailer parking facility or truck terminal facility
on some or all of the subject property, and that for that reason the owner has
agreed to pay a trailer facility impact fee to the village in order to defray
the additional costs to the village of providing, repairing, and maintaining
the roads and other municipal infrastructure that serve such property, as set
forth herein. The trailer facility impact fees agreed to herein shall be
assessed against each and every part of the subject property that is or may
hereinafter be used as a trailer parking facility or truck terminal facility.
   (C)   The owner accepts, acknowledges, and agrees that the trailer facility
impact fee agreed to herein is reasonably calculated to defray the increased
costs to the village to provide, repair, and maintain the village’s roads and
other municipal infrastructure serving the subject property, and further that
the amount of said trailer facility impact fee(s) is directly proportional to
those additional costs to the village that are specifically and uniquely
attributable to the owner's proposed use of the subject property. Therefore,
the owner releases, waives, forfeits, and forever discharges any and all claims
that he may have or may hereinafter accrue against the village or any of its
elected or appointed officers, employees, agents, contractors, or consultants
in connection with the trailer facility impact fee set forth herein.
   (D)   The trailer facility impact fees set forth herein are and shall be in
addition to any other tax, fee, or assessment levied or imposed by the village,
or any other governmental authority of competent jurisdiction, including but
not limited to general real estate taxes levied upon the subject property.
   (E)   The trailer facility impact fee(s) agreed upon herein shall be paid as
a condition of approval for each and every site plan for a trailer parking
facility or truck terminal facility approved for the subject property, or else
at such other time(s) agreed to in writing by the village and the owner.
   (F)   The amount of the trailer facility impact fee(s) shall be based upon
the number of parking stalls located on any part of the subject property that
is used as a trailer parking facility or truck terminal facility. Prior to
commencing operations of any trailer parking facility or truck terminal
facility on any part of the subject property, the owner, or the owner's
successor, assign, or tenant, as the case may be, shall submit a site plan to
the village which shall show, inter alia, the number of parking stalls on the
premises. Once such a site plan is approved for any given premises, the number
of parking stalls thereon shall not be increased unless and until a new site
plan showing the new number of parking stalls is submitted to and approved by
the village. In the event that the owner, or any of his successors or assigns,
submits a new site plan that increases the overall number of parking stalls on
the subject property, the owner, or such successor or assign, as the case may
be, agrees, as a condition of site plan approval, to pay the trailer facility
impact fee(s) attributable to such additional parking stalls.
   (G)   The per-parking-stall amount of the trailer facility impact fee shall
be as follows:
      (1)   For a trailer parking facility: $ 1,500 per parking stall.
      (2)   For a truck terminal facility: $800 per parking stall for every
parking stall in excess of the number of loading docks proposed for the truck
terminal facility (e.g. if a proposed truck terminal facility will have ten
loading docks, the owner will be liable to pay a trailer facility impact fee
for every parking stall in excess of ten such stalls).
   (H)   All trailer facility impact fees paid to the village as set forth
herein are and shall be appropriated to the village's road fund and after
receipt may be allocated and spent in any manner permitted by law.
(Res. 2023-03, passed 4-25-2023)
§ 150.09 CONSTRUCTION AND REPLACEMENT OF MAILBOXES IN RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Mailboxes and their installation shall conform to the specifications
of the United States Postal Service. The mailbox shall be mounted such that the
door is 6 inches behind the back of the curb or 36 inches from the edge of
pavement on rural roads, 41 to 45 inches high from the road surface to the
floor of the mailbox and located on the side of the street as specified by the
local Post Office.
   (B)   Address numbers must be inscribed in contrasting color in neat letters
and numerals not less than 1 inch high on the side of the box visible to the
carrier’s regular approach or on the door if boxes are grouped.
   (C)   It is recommended that mailboxes conform to the “U.S. Mail” and
“Approved by the Postmaster General” standards and that they be installed on a
4-inch by 4-inch wood post or no greater than a 2-inch diameter standard
strength steel pipe.
   (D)   The local postmaster may approve a curbside mailbox constructed by a
customer who, for aesthetic or other reasons, does not want to use an approved
manufactured mailbox. The custom-built mailbox must generally meet the same
standards as approved manufactured mailboxes for flag, size, strength and
quality of construction. If masonry mailbox stands are installed, no portion of
the masonry may be closer than 8 inches from the back of the curb.
   (E)   If any mailbox is damaged or knocked down by the village’s snow
removal or other village maintenance activities, the village shall reimburse
the owner of the mailbox up to a maximum of $150 upon receipt of a sales
receipt or invoice showing the actual costs incurred by the mailbox owner for
repair or replacement of the damaged mailbox. Reimbursements shall only occur
for damages reported to the Village Clerk within ten days of the date the
damage occurred or as soon as reasonable thereafter.
(Ord. 2007-17, passed 8-14-2007; Am. Ord. 2018-04, passed 2-27-2018)
BUILDING PERMIT POLICY
§ 150.20 ADMINISTRATIVE, BUILDING PERMIT, INSPECTION AND RE-INSPECTION FEES;
REPLACEMENT CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY/COMPLETION.
   (A)   Administrative fee for building permits. In addition to any other fees
imposed by this section or any other ordinance of the Village of Diamond, there
is hereby imposed an administrative fee for issuance of building permits in the
amount as set forth in the fee schedules in §
150.21. The administrative fee shall be paid in full along with all other fees
imposed by the Village of Diamond prior to issuance of any building permit.
   (B)   Fees for residential, commercial and industrial building permits and
inspections. The permit and inspection fees for residential, commercial and
industrial buildings are set forth in the schedule in §
150.21(A). The fees set forth therein shall be paid in full to the village
prior to the issuance of a building permit or prior to reinspection, as the
case may be.
   (C)   Fees for miscellaneous building permits and inspections. The permit
and inspection fees for miscellaneous building items are set forth on the
schedule in §
150.21(B). The fees set forth therein shall be paid in full to the village
prior to the issuance of a building permit or prior to reinspection, as the
case may be.
   (D)   Inspections for new residential construction. The required inspections
for new residential construction are set forth on the schedule in §
150.21(C). The inspections set forth therein shall be completed to the
satisfaction of the Village Building Inspector prior to the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy.
   (E)   Re-inspection fee for building inspection. In addition to any other
fees imposed by this section or any other ordinance of the Village of Diamond,
there is hereby imposed a re-inspection fee in the amount of $25 for the first
re-inspection and $50 for any additional re-inspections if corrections were not
made properly at the time of the first reinspection. The re-inspection fees
shall be imposed upon the general contractor or owner when during the course of
work an additional inspection is required due to failure of the work to meet
the applicable building code at the time of the inspection. No occupancy permit
shall be issued for any structure unless all applicable re-inspection fees have
been paid in full.
   (F)   Replacement certificate of occupancy/completion. In addition to any
other fees imposed by this section or any other ordinance of the Village of
Diamond, there is hereby imposed a replacement certificate fee of $25. When any
person entitled to receive a certificate of occupancy or certificate of
completion for any structure or work completed with the village shall request
any additional certificate, the charge shall be imposed prior to issuance by
the village.
   (G)   Enforcement. No certificate of occupancy or certificate of completion
shall be issued by the Village of Diamond until all fees imposed by this
section are paid in full and all required inspections have been completed to
the satisfaction of the Village Building Inspector.
   (H)   Effective date. This section shall be in full force and effect from
and after its passage and approval.
(Ord. 2004-05, passed 2-10-2004; Am. Ord. 2004-18-A, passed 7-8-2004; Am. Ord.
2005-17, passed 12-13-2005; Am. Ord. 2010-04, passed 3-23-2010)
§ 150.21 FEE, PERMIT AND INSPECTION SCHEDULES.
   (A)   Residential, Commercial and Industrial Fees.
Residential Construction Fees
Residential    Fees
Construction
Administration
Fee New
Construction   $100 (per occupancy unit)
Building
Permits
Administration
Fee Additions  $50 (per occupancy unit)
and
Alterations
Permit Fee     square feet x $0.35 (includes all occupied and    garage areas, but excludes
               basement areas)
Plan Review    Single Family $50
               Duplex $75
               Townhouse $100
Plan Review
for multi-
family
buildings      Equal to the Village’s Consultant Fee
(more than 2
occupancy
units)
Inspections
New
Construction
(per occupancy
unit for       $175 (7-Building/Electric)
duplex &
townhomes)
(See §
150.21(C) for  $200 (4-Plumbing)
Required
Inspections
               Total Inspection Cost: $375
Inspections
New
Construction
(for multi-
family         Equal to the Village’s Consultant Fee
buildings with
more than 2
occupancy
units)
Inspections
Additions and  Number of inspections determined by Building Inspector & Based on Scope of Work
Alterations
               $25 per building or electric inspection
               $50 per plumbing inspection
Commercial and
Industrial     Fees
Construction
Administration
Fee New
Construction   $200 (per occupancy unit)
Building
Permit
Administration
Fee Additions  $100 (per occupancy unit)
and
Alterations
Plan Review    Equal to the Village’s Consultant Fee
Fee
Permit Fee     square feet x $0.35
Inspections    Equal to the Village’s Consultant Fee
 
School
Site/Land   In accordance with the then current Land Cash Ordinance of the Village
Cash
Water Tap-  $1,000 per occupancy unit
On Fee
Sewer Tap-  $1,100 per occupancy unit
On Fee
Sewer Use   $1,200 per occupancy unit
Fee
Water
Expansion   $1,000 per occupancy unit
Fee
Water Meter $400 per occupancy unit
            A flat water service charge of $75 for each residential building and a flat
            water service charge of $300 for each commercial or industrial building shall be
            paid to the village for each 3-month period while the building is under
            construction and before the permanent water meter is installed to cover the
Building    anticipated water use in the building prior to the installation of the permanent
Permit      water meter. The first 3-month period water charge shall be due and payable upon
Water       the issuance of the building permit. All building permit water charges shall be
Charge      paid in full prior to the issuance of an occupancy permit for the building. If,
            in the opinion of the Building Inspector, the use of water during the
            construction period may be excessive, the Building Inspector may require the
            installation, at the owner’s expense, of a temporary outside meter to measure
            water used and to be paid for at the regular metered water rates.
Re-
inspection  $25 for the first re-inspection
Fees
            $50 for each additional re-inspection for the same discipline
Additional
Inspections
required by $25
the
Building
Inspector
 
   (B)   Miscellaneous Permits. In addition to the permit fees below, a $25
Administration/Review Fee is required for each permit type, unless not required
hereinafter.
Permit Type Fee
Permit Type                                  Fee
Deck
Permit Per Square Ft. or Minimum             Square Feet x $0.25
                                             with a minimum fee of $20
Inspection                                   1 @25.00 ($25)
Detached Garage/Accessory Building
Permit Per Square Ft. or Minimum             Square Feet x $0.25
                                             with a minimum fee of $25
Inspection                                   2 @25.00 ($50)
Carport (Attached)
Permit                                       $15
Inspection                                   2 @25.00 ($50)
Electric Service (New)                       No Administration/Review Fee
Permit                                       $25
Inspection                                   1 @25.00 ($25)
Electric Upgrade (Remodeling)                No Administration/Review Fee
Permit                                       Per Unit $25
Inspection                                   2 @25.00 ($50)
Fence
Permit Per Linear Ft. or Minimum             Linear Feet x $0.15
                                             with a minimum fee of $25
Inspection                                   1 @25.00 ($25)
Parking Lot Area (Commercial and Industrial)
Permit                                       $75
Inspection                                   1 @25.00 ($25)
Pergola (Attached or 100 sq. ft. or larger)
Permit Per Square Ft. or Minimum             Square Feet x $0.25
                                             with a minimum fee of $20
Inspection                                   1 @25.00 ($25)
 
Plumbing Service (Outdoor)
Permit                                  Water $30; Sewer $30; Water & Sewer $50
Inspection                              1 @50.00 ($50)
Plumbing Upgrade (Remodeling)
Permit                                  $25
Inspection                              2 @50.00 ($100)
Re-Roof (Commercial, Industrial or
Multi-Family Units)
Permit                                  $25
Inspection                              1 @25.00 ($25)
Shed/Accessory Building (100 square
feet or larger)
Permit Per Square Ft. or Minimum        Square feet x $0.25
                                        with a minimum fee of $20
Inspection                              1 @25.00 ($25)
                                        Elec. Add. 1 @25.00 ($25)
Commercial, Industrial and Multi-Family
Units - Stairs/Railings & Handicap
Ramps
Permit                                  $15
Inspection                              1 @25.00 ($25)
Swimming Pool (inground)
Permit                                  $50
Inspection                              2 @25.00 ($50)
                                        1 Plumbing ($50)
Swimming Pool Heater                    Add. $50 Inspection
Swimming Pool (above ground)
Permit                                  $50
Inspection                              1 @25.00 ($25)
Swimming Pool Heater                    Add. $50 Inspection
Swimming Pool (temporary)
Permit and Inspection                   $25.00
Windows (size change)
Permit                                  $15.00
Inspection                              1 @25.00 ($25)
 
Sign (Except for sign fees provided for
in Development Agreements or Annexation
Agreements)
Permit (per Sign)                       $100
Inspection                              1 @25.00 ($25)
Demolition (Building/Structures)
Permit                                  $50
Inspection                              2 @25.00 ($50)
Re-inspection Fees for all inspections  $25 for the first re-inspection
required in this Exhibit B
                                        $50 for each additional re-inspection
                                        for the same discipline
Additional Inspections required by the  $25
Building Inspector
 
   (C)   Required inspections for new residential construction.
Footing/Column pad forms (When the forms are set and before the concrete is
poured).
Foundation forms (When the forms are set and before the concrete is poured).
Sewer/Water Service (When service is installed, but before they are
backfilled).
Electric Service(When the meter socket and main panel are installed).
Foundation Backfill(When the concrete is poured, drain tile is in place and
covered with gravel, but before the foundation is backfilled).
Underground Plumbing(When the piping is located underground or under at slab,
but before the covering is in place).
*Rough Electric(When the rough in work is completed, but before insulation or
drywall).
Rough Plumbing(When the rough in work is completed, but before insulation or
drywall).
*Rough HVAC(When the piping or duct work is installed, but before insulation or
drywall).
*Rough Framing(When electric, plumbing, HVAC rough-ins are completed and
approved, but before insulation and drywall).
 
 
Insulation(After all rough inspections are approved, but before drywall).
Final Plumbing (When system is completed and operational).
*Final Electric(When system is completed and operational).
*Final HVAC(When system is completed and operational).
*Final Building(When all work is completed).
A re-inspection fee of $25 will be imposed for the first re-inspection, and $50
for any additional re-inspections if corrections were not made properly at the
time of the first re-inspection. All re-inspection fees must be paid in full
before a certificate of occupancy will be issued.
*One inspection fee collected for Rough Electric, Rough HVAC and Rough Framing
and one inspection fee collected for Final Electric, Final HVAC and Final
Building. If called for separately, a $25 additional inspection fee shall be
charged for each respectively.
 
(Ord. 2005-02, passed 3-22-2005; Am. Ord. 2006-02, passed 2-14-2006; Am. Ord.
2007-03, passed 2-13-2007; Am. Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-12-2008; Am. Ord. 2010-
04, passed 3-23-2010; Am. Ord. 2020-20, passed 6-23-2020)
§ 150.22 ELEVATION CERTIFICATION FOR NEWLY-CONSTRUCTED BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Where any building is constructed in a subdivision platted within the
Village of Diamond that includes grade plans and/or foundation elevation
requirements, the Building Inspector shall require an elevation certification
to be provided by a licensed Illinois surveyor or a general contractor licensed
in the Village of Diamond. The elevation certification shall be on a form
provided by the Building Inspector. The Building Inspector shall inspect the
elevation certification, check calculations and the method of calculation prior
to placing any concrete in foundation forms. The person responsible for the
elevation certification shall provide all equipment necessary for the Building
Inspector to verify the elevation figures provided.
   (B)   The elevation of foundations and grades so constructed shall be within
2/10 of 1 foot of the subdivision plan.
   (C)   (1)   In the event that an elevation certification is not provided in
compliance with the above procedure, the Building Inspector shall issue a stop-
work order for the building.
      (2)   The stop-work order shall only be removed by action of the Village
Commission, and upon a showing that the elevation meets the requirements of
division (B) above, or upon submission of a plan of correction to bring the
building into compliance, and also payment of a fine in the amount of the
building permit fee.
   (D)   The village shall receive an inspection fee of $25 for each inspection
carried out under this section, which shall be in addition to any other
inspection fees or permit fees charged by the village.
   (E)   This section shall apply to all buildings for which a permit is issued
after the effective date of this section.
   (F)   This section shall not be construed to place responsibility for
compliance with elevation plans with the village or Building Inspector. It is
the responsibility of the general contractor to ensure that any building is
constructed in conformance with applicable building elevation plans. Any
verification of measurements by the Building Inspector is for the benefit of
the village only and not for the property owner or other person hiring a
contractor within the village.
   (G)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and approval as provided by law and shall be published in pamphlet
form.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-22-2005)
§ 150.23 BUILDING PERMIT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Any building permit issued by the Village of Diamond, Illinois, shall
be subject to the following limitations.
      (1)   Any building permit issued by the village shall be valid for a
period of 1 year from the date the permit is issued, and the permit shall
automatically terminate on the date which is 1 year from the date of issuance
unless the permit terminates earlier as provided for in division (A)(2) below
or is extended as provided for in division (A)(3) below.
      (2)   Where any building permit is issued by the village, and work is not
commenced within 6 months from the date of issuance, the permit will
automatically terminate.
      (3)   Upon written application to the Building Inspector, and on good
cause shown for non-completion, the Building Inspector may grant 1 90-day
extension for the validity of a permit. No additional extensions will be
allowed on that permit.
      (4)   (a)   Any person to whom a building permit is issued shall either:
            1.   Request a final inspection and receive an occupancy permit or
certificate of completion prior to the expiration of the permit; or
            2.   The permit holder shall request that a new permit be issued
and pay any applicable building permit fees therefore, prior to the expiration
of the building permit.
         (b)   If a permit holder fails to comply with the above requirements
he or she shall pay a fine to the village in a amount equal to the cost of the
original building or construction permit. Thereafter no building or
construction permit shall be issued for the property or building until all
fines levied under this section are paid in full.
   (B)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and approval as provided by law and shall be published in pamphlet
form.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 3-22-2005)
§ 150.24 RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION BUILDING PERMIT FEE DEFERRAL PROGRAM.
   (A)   Recitals.
      (1)   On March 23, 2010, the Board of Commissioners of the Village of
Diamond adopted an ordinance providing for required inspection for residential
construction and amending various ordinances relating to fees for building
permits and related items (Ordinance Number 2010-04); and
      (2)   In an effort to stimulate new residential construction within the
Village of Diamond, the Village of Diamond is willing to defer payment of 50%
of the up-front cost for new residential construction building permit fees as
herein provided; and
      (3)   It is in the best interest of the Village of Diamond to stimulate
new residential construction in order to create and sustain jobs within the
Village of Diamond and to create growth in the village's tax base.
   (B)   New residential construction building permit fee deferral program.
      (1)   The fees for new residential construction building permits shall be
due and payable as follows:
         (a)   Fifty percent thereof prior to the issuance of a building
permit; and
         (b)   Fifty percent thereof prior to issuance of a final or temporary
certificate of occupancy for such residential unit, or after the passage of 12
months after issuance of the new residential construction building permit,
whichever occurs first.
      (2)   As a condition of the deferment of time and payment of the building
permit fees, the property owner shall be required to execute a letter agreement
secured by a lien, acknowledging that all building permit fees will be paid
prior to issuance of a final or temporary certificate of occupancy for such
residential unit, or after the passage of 12 months after issuance of the
building permit, whichever occurs first. The new residential construction
building permit fee deferral program shall expire on December 31, 2013.
(Ord. 2010-14, passed 10-26-2010; Am. Ord. 2011-14, passed 11-23-2011; Am. Ord.
2013-01, passed 1-22-2013)
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE
§ 150.35 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   This subchapter is for the purpose of requiring that new development pays
for its fair share of public facilities through the imposition of impact fees
which will be used to finance, defray or reimburse the village for all or a
portion of the costs of public facilities which serve such development. The
amount of each impact fee shall be calculated by acreage for all new
development.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed 2-27-2007)
§ 150.36 FINDINGS.
   The Village Board of Commissioners hereby finds that:
   (A)   The village assumes the responsibility for and is committed to
providing public facilities at levels necessary to cure any existing
deficiencies in already developed areas.
   (B)   New commercial, residential, and industrial development imposes
increased and excessive demands upon village public facilities.
   (C)   Planning, economic and demographic studies project that new
development will continue and will place very increasing demands on the village
to provide public facilities to serve the new development.
   (D)   The development potential and property values of properties in the
designated benefit areas are strongly influenced by village policy as
implemented by the village zoning ordinance and map.
   (E)   To the extent that new development places demands upon the public
facilities, those demands should be satisfied by shifting the responsibility
for financing the provisions of the facilities from the public to the
development creating the demands.
   (F)   The Village Board of Commissioners, after careful consideration of the
following studies and the experience of other similarly situated villages,
finds that the imposition of impact fees to finance specified major public
facilities, the demand for which is created by new development, is in the best
interest of the general welfare of the village and its residents, is equitable,
and does not impose an unfair burden on new development.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed 2-27-2007)
§ 150.37 APPLICABILITY.
   Unless expressly excepted or exempted, this subchapter applies to all fees
imposed by the village to finance public facilities attributable to new
development, including without limitation:
   (A)   Sewer expansion.
   (B)   Water expansion.
   (C)   Street improvements.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed 2-27-2007)
§ 150.38 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BENEFIT AREA. The geographic area within which impact fees are collected and
expended for a particular type of capital improvement serving development
projects within any and all undeveloped land within the municipal boundaries.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT. Land or facilities for the storage, treatment or
distribution of water; for the collection, treatment, reclamation or disposal
of sewage; for purposes of transportation, including without limitation,
streets, street lighting and traffic-control devices and supporting
improvements of roads. CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT also includes design, engineering,
inspections, testing, planning, legal land acquisition and all other costs
associated with construction of a public facility.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PLAN. The 5-year plan for capital improvements, adopted
annually by the Board of Commissioners, describing the approximate location,
size, time of availability and estimated cost of capital improvement projects
and identifies sources of funding for capital improvement projects.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT LIST. The list attached to the annual
resolution setting the base fee amount for each specific impact fee. The list
shall describe the approximate location, size, time of availability and
estimated cost of each capital improvement to be funded from a particular
impact fee account.
   COLLECTION. The point at which the impact fee is actually paid over to the
village.
   COMMITMENT. Earmarking impact fees to fund or partially fund or partially
fund capital improvements serving new development projects.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms in a building or a portion of a room
designed, intended to be used, or actually used for occupancy by 1 family for
living and sleeping quarters, and containing 1 kitchen only, and includes a
mobile home, but not hotel or motel units.
   IMPACT FEE. Any monetary exaction imposed by the village as a condition of
or in connection with approval of a development project for the purpose of
defraying all or some of the cost of or repayment of costs previously expended
from other village funds for capital improvements relating to the project.
   IMPOSE. To determine that a particular development project is subject to the
collection of impact fees as a condition of development approval.
   NEW DEVELOPMENT or DEVELOPMENT PROJECT. Any project undertaken for the
purpose of development, including without limitation a project involving the
issuance of a permit for construction, reconstruction, or change of use, but
not a project involving the issuance of a permit to operate or to remodel,
rehabilitate or improve an existing structure, nor the rebuilding of a
structure destroyed or damaged by an act of God.
   NONRESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT. All development other than residential
development projects.
   RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT. Any development undertaken to create a new
dwelling unit or units.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed 2-27-2007)
§ 150.39 IMPOSITION, CALCULATION AND COLLECTION OF IMPACT FEES.
   (A)   Except as provided in this subchapter and any amendment to this
subchapter, the village shall impose impact fees as a condition of approval of
all new development projects. No tentative or final subdivision map, parcel
map, grading permit, building permit, final inspection, or certificate of
occupancy, or other development permit, may be approved unless the provisions
of this section have been fulfilled.
   (B)   Impact fees shall be imposed by including the following language in
any document of development approval: Approval of this project is conditioned
upon payment to the village of all applicable impact fees, as provided in this
subchapter.
   (C)   Impact fees shall be collected by the Village Clerk at the time and as
a condition of approval by the Board of the final plat.
   (D)   In the event that the developer chooses to pay the required fee over a
maximum of a 4- year period, or as facilities become available, the following
conditions shall apply:
      (1)   Each installment shall be based on the current year per acre fee.
      (2)   A non-expiring bond, letter of credit or other acceptable financial
security as approved by the Village Board, shall be provided consistent with
the provision of this subchapter. The amount of this financial security shall
be equal to the balance of the impact fee due.
   (E)   Calculation of impact fee.
      (1)   The impact fees shall be assessed based upon the acreage of a new
development project. The acreage shall be on a per total (gross) acre basis,
minus the acreage of platted rights-of-way to be dedicated in fee simple title
to the village for roadway purposes.
      (2)   The impact fees shall be:
         (a)   Wastewater Treatment Impact Fee      $5,594.00/acre.
         (b)   Wastewater Collection Impact Fee   $1,885.00/acre.
         (c)   Water Treatment Impact Fee    $2,561.00/acre.
         (d)   Water Distribution Impact Fee   $1,551.00/acre.
                                 Total Impact Fee   $11,591.00/acre.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed 2-27-2007; Am. Ord. 2023-01, passed 1-24-2023)
§ 150.40 IMPACT FEE ACCOUNT.
   (A)   The village has an established account for each benefit area, as
designated by the Village Engineer, for each type of capital improvement for
which an impact fee is imposed, and impact fees collected shall be deposited in
each account according to the type of improvement and benefit area. The funds
of the account shall not be commingled with other funds of the village. Any
account previously established for the deposit of funds, which would have been
developer impact fees under this subchapter shall be deemed an impact fee
account.
   (B)   Each impact fee account shall be interest bearing and the accumulated
interest shall become a part of the account.
   (C)   The funds of each account shall be expended within the benefit area
(all undeveloped land within the municipal boundaries) exclusively for the
capital improvements for which the impact fees were collected.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed 2-27-2007)
§ 150.41 USE OF IMPACT FEE PROCEEDS.
   Impact fees shall be expended only for the type of capital improvements for
which they were imposed, calculated, and collected and according to the time
limits and procedures established in this subchapter. Impact fees may be used
to pay the principal, interest and other costs of bonds, notes and other
obligations issued or undertaken by or on behalf of the village to finance such
improvements.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed 2-27-2007)
§ 150.42 AUDITS.
   A property owner may request an audit to determine whether the impact fee
imposed is roughly proportional to or exceeds the amount reasonable necessary
to finance capital improvements attributable to the development project. The
Village Board shall then retain a qualified, independent auditor and he or she
shall determine whether the fee is appropriate. The village may require as a
condition of the right to such an audit, that the property owner pay for the
cost of the audit and deposit with the village a sum equal to the reasonable
estimated cost of the audit. The decision of the independent auditor is final
unless appealed to the village by the property owner as provided in this
chapter.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed 2-27-2007)
§ 150.43 PROTESTS AND APPEALS.
   (A)   A person may protect or challenge the imposition of a fee imposed
pursuant to this subchapter by filing, with the Village Clerk within 10 days
following mailing of notice of the auditors decision to the appellant, a
written notice of appeal with a full statement of the grounds, and an appeals
fee of $500 or such other amount as may be fixed from time to time by
resolution of the Village Board. The village may continue processing the
development application if the notice of appeal is accompanied with a bond or
other security in an amount equal to the impact fee.
   (B)   The appellant bears the burden of proof to demonstrate that the amount
of the fee was not calculated according to the procedures established in this
subchapter.
   (C)   At a regular meeting following the filing of the appeal, the Village
Board shall fix a time and place for hearing the appeal and the Village Clerk
shall mail notice of hearing to the appellant at the address given in the
notice of appeal. The hearing shall be conducted at the time and place stated
in the notice and the determination of the Village Board shall be announced at
the conclusion of the hearing or at the next regular meeting of the Village
Board. The determination of the Village Board shall be final.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed 2-27-2007)
§ 150.44 STATUE OF LIMITATIONS.
   Any judicial action or proceeding to attack, review, set aside or annual the
reasonableness, legality, or validity of any impact fee must be filed and
service of process effected within 90 days following the date of imposition of
the fee or the final determination of the Village Board, whichever is later.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed 2-27-2007)
§ 150.45 AMENDMENT PROCEDURES.
   At least once each year, prior to the Village Boards adoption of the budget
and revisions to the capital improvements project list, the Commissioner of
Finance shall report to the Village Board with:
   (A)   Recommendations for amendments to this subchapter and to resolutions
establishing impact fees;
   (B)   Proposals for changes to the capital improvements project list,
identifying capital improvements to be funded, in whole or in part, by impact
fees;
   (C)   Proposals for changes in the boundaries of benefit areas; and
   (D)   Proposals for changes to impact fee rates and schedules.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed 2-27-2007)
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 150.65 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING.
      (1)   Any building, shed, fence, or other manmade structure which is
dangerous to the public health because of its condition, and which may cause or
aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of the occupants of it or
neighboring structures;
      (2)   Any building, shed, fence, or other manmade structure which,
because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair, or any other cause,
is especially liable to fire, and constitutes or creates a fire hazard, or
constitutes a hazard to the occupants thereof in the event of fire;
      (3)   Any building, shed, fence, or other manmade structure which, by
reason of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair, or any other cause,
is liable to cause injury or damage by collapsing or by a collapse or fall of
any part of the structure; and/or
      (4)   Any building, shed, fence, or other manmade structure which,
because of its condition or because of lack of doors or windows, is available
and frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons who are not lawful
occupants of the structure.
(Ord. passed 7-6-1959)
§ 150.66 NUISANCE.
   Any dangerous building in the village is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. passed 7-6-1959) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.67 PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any dangerous
building in the village, and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or
person in custody of any dangerous bui1ding to permit the same to remain in a
dangerous condition, or to occupy the building or permit it to be occupied
while it is or remains in a dangerous condition.
(Ord. passed 7-6-1959) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.68 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the Fire Chief or the Commissioner of Public Health and
Safety shall be of the opinion that any building or structure in the village is
a dangerous building, he or she shall file a written statement to this effect,
with the Village Clerk; the Clerk shall thereupon cause written notice to be
served upon the own owner thereof, and upon the occupants thereof, if any, by
registered or certified mail or by personal service; provided that the notice
may be posted in a prominent place on the premises if the owner cannot be
located in the village, and the mailing address of the owner is unknown. The
notice shall state that the building has been declared to be in a dangerous
condition, and that the dangerous condition must be removed or remedied by
repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it; and that the condition
must be remedied at once. The notice may be in the following form:
      “To __________   (Owner, occupant) of the premises known and described as
__________.
      “You are hereby notified that (describe building) on the premises above
described has been condemned as a nuisance and a dangerous building after
inspection by __________.
      “You must remedy this condition or demolish the building at once, or the
village will proceed to do so.”
   (B)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied therewith within
10 days from the time the notice is served upon the person by personal service
or by registered or certified mail, or posted on the premises, the Fire Chief
or the Commissioner of Public Health and Safety, upon orders of the Commission
of the Village of Diamond shall proceed to remedy the condition or demolish the
dangerous building, at the expense of the property owner.
(Ord. passed 7-6-1959)
§ 150.69 REQUIREMENTS FOR REMOVAL OR REBUILDING.
   (A)   Any building or structure within the corporate limits of the village
which has or may be damaged by fire, decay, flood, wind, earthquake, man or
other cause to the extent of 50% of its pre-damaged market value, shall be torn
down or removed.
   (B)   Upon written notice of such damaged building by the Building
Inspector, Commissioner of Public Health, Safety and Parks, or the Fire Chief
of the local Fire Protection District, filed with the Village Clerk, the
Village Clerk shall notify the Village Mayor of the receipt of such notice. The
Village Mayor may appoint a 3 person committee to determine whether or not such
building or structure has been damaged to the extent of 50% of its pre-damaged
market value. A copy of said notice, together with a notice of the appointment
of the committee to determine the damage, shall be served upon the owner of the
premises by personal service or by registered mail to his last known address.
   (C)   The notice may be in substantially the following form:
      "To                                                     (owner of the
premises).
      You are hereby notified that                                         has
determined that the building owned by you at
                                                       located within the
corporate limits of the Village of Diamond has been damaged by fire, decay,
flood, wind, earthquake, man or other cause to the extent of fifty percent
(50%) of its pre-damaged market value; and that a committee of three (3)
members has been appointed to verify this finding, which committee will hold
its first meeting in the Diamond Village Hall on the       day of
                   , 20    at the hour of          o'clock, at which time it
will determine whether this finding is correct. If this finding is verified by
the committee, you must tear down and remove that said building."
   (D)   If the committee of 3 members determines that the building in question
has been damaged to the extent of 50% of its pre-damaged market value, it shall
be the duty of the owner to tear down or remove the said building within 20
days after the finding of the committee; and it shall be unlawful to occupy or
permit such building to be occupied after such finding and such building shall
be deemed a nuisance under this section. Additionally, until said building is
torn down or removed, the village shall not issue a building permit to the
owner or occupant of the premises.
(Ord. 2013-13, passed 11-26-2013)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of §
150.06 shall be punishable by a forfeiture of not less than $100 nor more than
$500 plus costs of prosecution, including reasonable attorney's fees. Each day
the violation exists/continues shall be considered as a separate offense.
CHAPTER 151: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Title, intent and purpose
   
151.002   Rules and definitions
   
151.003   Interpretations
   
151.004   Separability
   
151.005   Scope of regulations
   
151.006   Use and bulk regulations
   
151.007   Building height exceptions
   
151.008   Yards
   
151.009   Lot area and dimensions
   
151.010   Access to public streets
   
151.011   Access across property
   
151.012   Number of buildings on a zoning lot
   
151.013   Multiple uses on a zoning lot
   
151.014   Through lots
   
151.015   Accessory buildings
   
151.016   Temporary buildings
   
151.017   Mobile food vendors
   
151.018   Roads and streets
   
151.019   Small wind energy systems
   
151.020   Solar energy systems
   
151.021   Home occupations
   
151.022   Personal wireless service facilities
Nonconforming Buildings and Uses
   
151.035   Statement of purpose
   
151.036   Continuance of use
   
151.037   Discontinuance of use
   
151.038   Repairs and alterations
   
151.039   Damage and destruction
   
151.040   Additions and enlargements
   
151.041   Use district changes
   
151.042   Relocation of a nonconforming structure
   
151.043   Acquisition of nonconforming structures
Zoning Districts and Maps
   
151.055   Inclusion
   
151.056   Districts
   
151.057   Maps
   
151.058   District boundaries
   
151.059   Zoning of public ways
   
151.060   Zoning of annexed land
   
151.061   Zoning district use table
Residence Districts
   
151.075   Purpose and intent
   
151.076   R-1 1-Family Residence District
   
151.077   R-2 2-Family Residence District
   
151.078   R-3 Townhome Residence District
   
151.079   R-4 Multi-Family Residence District
   
151.080   Residence district bulk regulations
Business Districts
   
151.090   B-1 Retail Business District
   
151.091   B-3 Service Business District
   
151.092   BT Business Transition District
   
151.093   Business district bulk regulations
Industrial Districts
   
151.105   I-1 Limited Industrial District
   
151.106   I-2 General Industrial District
   
151.107   Industrial district bulk regulations
   
151.108   Adult use provisions
   
151.109   Medical cannabis facility conditions
Agricultural District
   
151.120   A-1 Agricultural District
   
151.121   Agricultural district bulk regulations
Architectural and Landscape Requirements
   
151.135   Exterior construction standards for commercial structures
   
151.136   Exterior standards for new residential structures
   
151.137   Landscape standards
   
151.138   Lighting
   
151.139   Trash enclosures and storage area screening
Signs
   
151.150   General provisions
   
151.151   Sign definitions
   
151.152   Signs not requiring a permit
   
151.153   Prohibited signs
   
151.154   Sign placement
   
151.155   Illumination
   
151.156   Electronic message sign
   
151.157   General regulations
   
151.158   Signs permitted in all districts
   
151.159   Signs permitted in residential districts
   
151.160   Signs permitted in non-residential districts
   
151.161   Sign permits
Off-Street Parking, Stacking and Loading
   
151.175   Purpose
   
151.176   General provisions
   
151.177   Dimensions
   
151.178   Shared parking
   
151.179   Location of accessory off-street parking facilities
   
151.180   Schedule of parking requirements
   
151.181   Off-street loading regulations
   
151.182   Schedule of loading requirements
   
151.183   Drive-through and stacking facilities
   
151.184   Moving container regulations
   
151.185   Cargo storage container regulations
Administration
   
151.200   Organization
   
151.201   Zoning Administrator
   
151.202   Planning and Zoning Commission
   
151.203   Zoning certificates
   
151.204   Certificate of occupancy
   
151.205   Appeals of administrative decisions
   
151.206   Variations
   
151.207   Zoning ordinance text amendments
   
151.208   Zoning map amendments (rezoning)
   
151.209   Special uses
   
151.210   Site plan review
   
151.211   Violations, penalties and enforcement
Performance Standards
   
151.225   Purpose
   
151.226   Noise
   
151.227   Smoke and particulate matter
   
151.228   Odorous matter
   
151.229   Vibration
   
151.230   Toxic or noxious matter
   
151.231   Glare or heat
   
151.232   Fire and explosive hazards
   
151.233   Compliance
Planned Unit Developments (PUD)
   
151.245   Purpose
   
151.246   Objectives
   
151.247   General provisions
   
151.248   Residential density
   
151.249   Planned unit development procedure
   
Appendix A: Plant Materials
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 TITLE, INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Title. This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the
“Diamond Zoning Ordinance.”
   (B)   Intent and purpose. The Diamond Zoning Ordinance is adopted to promote
and protect the public health, safety, morals, comfort and general welfare of
the people. To fulfill this purpose, this chapter seeks to:
      (1)   Divide the Village of Diamond into zones or districts restricting
and regulating therein the location, erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration and use of buildings, structures and land for residence, business,
manufacturing and other specified uses;
      (2)   Protect the character and the stability of the residential,
business and manufacturing areas within the Village of Diamond and to promote
the orderly and beneficial development of such areas;
      (3)   Provide adequate light, air, privacy and convenience of access to
property;
      (4)   Regulate the intensity of land uses and to determine the area of
open spaces surrounding buildings, necessary to provide adequate light and air,
and to protect the public health;
      (5)   Establish building lines and the locations of buildings designed
for residential, business, and manufacturing, or other uses within such areas;
      (6)   Fix reasonable standards to which buildings or structures shall
conform;
      (7)   Prohibit uses, buildings or structures incompatible with the
character, development or intended uses within specified zoning districts;
      (8)   Prevent additions to or alteration or remodeling of, existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations imposed hereunder;
      (9)   Limit congestion in the public streets and protect the public
health, safety, convenience and general welfare by providing for the off-street
parking of motor vehicles and the loading and unloading of commercial vehicles;
      (10)   Protect against fire, explosion, noxious fumes and other hazards
in the interest of public health, safety, comfort and general welfare;
      (11)   Prevent the overcrowding of land and undue concentration of
structures, so far as is possible and appropriate in each district, by
regulating the use and bulk of buildings in relation to the land surrounding
them;
      (12)   Conserve the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
Village of Diamond;
      (13)   Provide for the gradual elimination of nonconforming uses of land,
buildings and structures which are adversely affecting the character and value
of desirable development in each district;
      (14)   Define and limit the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies as provided herein;
      (15)   Prescribe the penalties for the violation of the provisions of
this chapter or any amendments thereto;
      (16)   Provide a well-defined system of streets and pedestrian/bike
trails which allow access to all local and regional points of origin and
destination; and
      (17)   Implement the Village of Diamond Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 1.00, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.002 RULES AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules. In the construction of this chapter the rules and definitions
contained in this section shall be observed and applied, except when the
context clearly indicates otherwise.
      (1)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future.
      (2)   Words in the singular number include the plural number, and words
in the plural number include the singular number.
      (3)   The phrase “used for” shall include the phrases “arranged for,”
“designed for,” “intended for,” maintained for,” and “occupied for.”
      (4)   The following words indicate that compliance is mandatory: “must,”
“shall,” “will,” and “may not.”
      (5)   The following words indicate compliance is permissible or advisory
in nature, and not required: “may” and “should.”
      (6)   Within a series of provisions, the word “and” indicates that all
such provisions apply. With a series of provisions, the word “or” indicates
that both a single provision and a combination of provisions may apply.
      (7)   Unless otherwise expressly stated, a list or series of examples
that uses “including” or “such as” or similar wording shall not be construed as
exhaustive.
      (8)   The word “person” shall include a “firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company or corporation, as well as an individual.”
      (9)   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
      (10)   All measured distances and values shall be to the nearest integral
number. If a fraction is 1/2 or more, the integral number next above shall be
taken.
      (11)   All distances, unless otherwise stated, shall be measured
horizontally.
      (12)   The word “lot” shall include the words “plot” and “parcel;” the
word “building” includes all other structures or improvements of every kind,
regardless of similarity to buildings. The word “building” shall include the
word “structure” and shall include all other improvements of every kind,
regardless of similarity to a building.
   (B)   Definitions. The following words and terms shall have the meaning set
forth, except where otherwise specifically indicated. Words and terms not
defined shall have the meaning indicated by common dictionary definition.
      ABANDONMENT. An action to give up one’s rights or interests in property.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE. An ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE is one which:
         (a)   Is subordinate of and serves a principal building or principal
use;
         (b)   Is subordinate in area, extent or purpose to the principal
building or principal use served;
         (c)   Contributes to the comfort, convenience, or necessity of
occupants of the principal building or principal use served; and
         (d)   Is located on the same zoning lot as the principal building or
principal use served with the single exception of such accessory off-street
parking facilities as are permitted to locate elsewhere than on the same zoning
lot with the building or use served.
      ACREAGE. Any tract or parcel of land having an area of 1 acre or more,
which has not herefore been subdivided or platted.
      ADJACENT. The terms ADJACENT and CONTIGUOUS are used as synonymous terms,
and mean lots located with the same street frontage in contact with or touching
another parcel of land. Lots across a street right-of-way or alley are not
adjacent.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1870.jpg]
 
      ADULT BUSINESS USE. Any establishment, including but not limited to
arcades, bookstores, cabaret, hotel/motel, motion picture theatre, massage
parlor, modeling studio, sexual encounter establishment, or store, charging any
form of consideration; or a point of transmission or broadcast of video,
internet content or other electronic media; at which a substantial portion of
the stock-in-trade or business activities are characterized by an emphasis upon
the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      ADULT BUSINESS USE, SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREA. Includes any of the
following:
         (a)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts below a point immediately above the
top of the areolae; or
         (b)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
      ADULT BUSINESS USE, SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Includes any of the
following:
         (a)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
         (b)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
         (c)   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
         (d)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities (a) through (c).
      AGRICULTURE. All the processes of planting, growing, harvesting of crops
in the open and the raising and feeding of livestock and poultry; including
farming, farm buildings and farm dwellings, apiaries, aviaries, mushroom
growing, nurseries, orchards, forestry, dairying, greenhouses and commercial
vegetables.
      AIRPORT. Any area of land which is used or intended for use for the
landing and taking off of aircraft, and any appurtenant areas which are used or
intended for use for airport buildings or other airport facilities.
      ALLEY. A public or private way, at the rear or side of property,
permanently reserved as a means of secondary vehicular access to adjacent
property. Frontage on said alley shall not be construed as satisfying the
requirements of this chapter related to frontage on a dedicated street.
      ALTERATION. Any change in size, shape, character, occupancy or use of a
building or structure.
      AMUSEMENT ARCADE (GAME ROOM). Any establishment containing mechanical,
electronic and/or coin operated amusement devices and/or games operated on the
premises for the amusement of the general public as the principal use and/or
any business which operates more than 20 amusement devices which are accessory
to the principal use.
      AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any machine, game, table or other such device which is
designed, intended or used as entertainment and may be operated by the public
upon the insertion of a coin or token, or the use of which is made available
for any valuable consideration, including, but not limited to devices such as
pinball machines, pool tables, video games, electronic games, kiddie rides,
mini-theater projection devices, video screens, and all games and operations
similar thereto. An AMUSEMENT DEVICE shall not include food, soft drink and
cigarette vending machines.
      ANIMAL HOSPITAL. Any building or portion thereof designed or used for the
care, observation or treatment of domestic animals.
      ANTENNA. An antenna device by which radio or electromagnetic waves are
transmitted, received, or both.
      APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family structure, which
is arranged, designed, used or intended to be used as a single housekeeping
unit. A private bathroom and basic kitchen facilities, i.e., sink, stove and
refrigerator permanently installed must always be included for each apartment.
      APARTMENT BUILDING. A multiple-family dwelling originally designed and
constructed to accommodate 3 or more apartments designed with more than 1
dwelling unit connecting to a common corridor or entranceway, in contrast to
single or 2-family dwellings converted for multiple-family use.
      AREA, GROSS. The gross area of a parcel or development site is the area
in square feet/acres, in fee ownership, excluding all peripheral rights-of-way.
      ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY. A facility providing housing and services for a
group of persons, typically elderly, which may include provision of meals,
housekeeping, and personal care assistance.
      AUDITORIUM. A room, hall or building designed for the gathering of people
to hear lectures, plays and other presentations.
      AUTOMOBILE, BOAT, CAMPER, EQUIPMENT, MANUFACTURED HOME, OR MOTORCYCLE
SALES AND SERVICE. The sale of new and used automobiles, trucks, tractors,
construction equipment, agricultural equipment, and similar industrial
equipment, and other vehicles in operating condition; the storage of such
vehicles in operating condition, but not including storage of trucks of more
than 5 tons in weight or buses; and the repair and servicing of such vehicles,
including body work, painting and motor rebuilding, when conducted within a
completely enclosed building.
      AUTOMOBILE REPAIR (MINOR). Incidental repairs, replacement of parts and
motor service to automobiles, but not including any operation specified under
“vehicle repair, major.”
      AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A place where gasoline, stored only in
underground tanks, kerosene, lubricating oil or grease, for operation of
automobiles, are offered for sale directly to the public, on the premises, and
including minor automobile repair, but not including major vehicle repairs (as
defined).
      AUTOMOBILE AND TRAILER SALES AREA. An open area, other than a street,
used for the display or sale of new or used automobiles or trailers, and where
no repair work is done except for “automobile repair (minor)” or trailers to be
displayed and sold on the premises.
      AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD. Any place where 3 or more motor vehicles, not
in running condition, or parts thereof, are stored in the open and are not
being restored to operation, or any land, building or structure used for
wrecking or storing of such motor vehicles or parts thereof, and including the
commercial salvaging of any other goods, articles or merchandise.
      AWNING. A roof like cover, temporary in nature, which projects from the
wall of a building.
      BANKS AND FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS. Commercial banks, currency exchanges,
savings and loan associations, brokerage offices and other similar financial
institutions, but not including loan offices, finance companies and pawn shops.
      BAR/PUB. An establishment used primarily for the sale or dispensing of
liquor by the drink for on-site consumption and where food may be available for
consumption on the premises as accessory to the principal use.
      BASEMENT. A story partly or wholly underground. Where more than 1/2 of
its height is above the established curb level or above the average level of
the adjoining ground where the curb level has not been established, a BASEMENT
shall be counted as a story for the purposes of height measurement.
      BED AND BREAKFAST. An owner-occupied dwelling providing not more than 5
rooms for overnight accommodations to the public and, if so desired, breakfast
may be served to the guests thereof. Rental is on a transient basis for a fee.
      BEDROOM. Any finished room with a closet other than a living room, dining
room, kitchen, family room, bathroom or utility room, for the purpose of this
chapter, shall be considered a BEDROOM.
      BERM. An earthen mound designed to provide visual interest, screen
undesirable views, and/or decrease noise.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE (BMP). A design or practice employed with the
primary objective to minimize adverse water quality impacts, preserve
beneficial features on-site, avoid downstream erosion and habitat loss,
maintain natural base flows and groundwater recharge, prevent increases to
downstream flooding, provide multiple uses of drainage and storm water drainage
facilities, and/or provide for the economical, safe and aesthetically pleasing
drainage system for development.
      BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or in lieu of a street or
streets, by public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, waterways, or
municipal corporate boundary lines.
      BOARDING OR ROOMING HOUSE. A building with not more than 5 guest rooms
where lodging is provided for compensation pursuant to previous arrangement,
but not open on a daily, overnight or per meal basis to transient guest.
      BORDER PLANTS/FOUNDATION PLANTINGS. Perennial flowers, shrubs or bushes
of various height and diameter used to screen building foundations,
appurtenances and property boundaries.
      BUFFER. A combination of physical green space and vertical elements, such
as plants, berms, fences or walls, the purpose of which is to separate and
screen incompatible or dissimilar land uses from each other.
      BUILDABLE AREA. The space remaining on a zoning lot after the minimum
setback requirements have been complied with.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1872.jpg]
 
      BUILDING.
         (a)   Any structure with substantial walls and roof securely affixed
to the land and entirely separated on all sides from any other structure by
space or by walls in which there are no communicating doors, windows or
openings; and which is designed or intended for the shelter, enclosure or
protection of persons, animals or goods.
         (b)   Any structure with interior areas not normally accessible for
human use, such as gas holders, oil tanks, water tanks, grain elevators, coal
bunkers, and other similar structures, are not considered as buildings.
      BUILDING (COMPLETELY ENCLOSED). A building separated on all sides from
the adjacent open space, or from other buildings or other structures, by a
permanent roof and by exterior walls or party walls, pierced only by windows
and normal entrance or exit doors.
      BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the finished lot
grade at the middle of the front of the building to the highest elevation of
the roof in the case of a slant or flat roof; to the deck line of a mansard
roof; and to the mean height level between eaves and ridge of gable, hip or
gambrel roof; provided that where buildings are set back from the street line,
the height of the building may be measured from the average elevation for the
finished lot grade at the front of the building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1874.jpg]
 
      BUILDING (NONCONFORMING). Any lawfully constructed building which on the
effective date of this chapter, complies with all the regulations for the
zoning district in which the building is located.
      BUILDING PERMIT. A permit issued by the village for the construction,
alteration, removal or demolition of a building or structure.
      BUILDING (PRINCIPAL). A non-accessory building in which the principal use
of the zoning lot on which it is located is conducted.
      BUILDING SETBACK LINE. The line nearest the front of and across a zoning
lot, establishing the minimum setback to be provided between the front line of
a building or structure and the street right-of-way line.
      BUILDING (TEMPORARY). Any building not permanently affixed to the land.
      BULK. The term used to indicate the size and setbacks of buildings or
structures and location of same with respect to one another and includes the
following:
         (a)   Size and height of buildings;
         (b)   Location of exterior walls at all levels in relation to lot
lines, streets, or other buildings;
         (c)   All open spaces allocated to the building;
         (d)   Amount of lot area per dwelling unit; and
         (e)   Required parking areas.
      BUS LOTS. Any lot or land area used for the storage layover of passenger
buses or motor coaches.
      BUSINESS. The word BUSINESS or the word COMMERCE when used in this
chapter means the engaging in the purchase, sale, barter, or exchange of goods,
wares, or merchandise, the provision of services for compensation, or the
maintenance or operation of offices, or recreational or amusement enterprises.
      BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. The office of an engineer, doctor,
dentist, attorney, real estate broker, insurance broker, architect, or other
similar professional person, and any office used primarily for accounting,
correspondence, research, editing or administration.
      CALIPER. A circumferential measurement of the tree measured 6 inches
above existing grade at the base of the tree for those trees with a caliper of
4 inches or less and 48 inches above existing grade at the base of the tree for
those trees with a caliper of above 4 inches.
      CAR WASH (AUTOMATIC). A building or portion thereof containing facilities
for washing small motor vehicles, using production-line methods with a chain
conveyor, blower, steam cleaning device or other mechanical devices.
      CAR WASH (SELF-SERVICE). A building or portion thereof containing
facilities for washing small motor vehicles, using self-service mechanical
devices.
      CARGO STORAGE CONTAINER.
         (a)   A reusable vessel designed without an axle or wheels capable of
being:
            1.   Used in the packing, shipping, movement or transportation of
freight, articles, goods or commodities; or
            2.   Mounted or moved on a rail car and/or being mounted on a
chassis, bogie or trailer for movement by truck trailer or loaded on a ship.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1876.jpg]
 
         (b)   CARGO STORAGE CONTAINERS typically have a storage capacity of
1,030 to 2,060 cubic feet.
      CELLULAR SERVICE. A telecommunications service that permits customers to
use wireless, mobile telephones to connect, via low-power radio transmission
sites called cell sites, either to the public switched network or to other
mobile cellular phones.
      CELLULAR TELECOMMUNICATIONS. A commercial low power mobile radio service
licensed by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to providers in a
specific geographical area in which the radio frequency spectrum is divided
into discrete channels which are assigned in groups to geographic cells within
a service area and which are capable of being reused in different cells within
the service area.
      CLINICAL OR MEDICAL HEALTH CENTER. An establishment where licensed
doctors engage in the practice of medicine, operating on a group or individual
basis, with pooled facilities such as coordinated laboratory, x-ray and allied
departments for the diagnosis and treatment of humans, which need not, but may
include, a drug prescription counter (not a drug store) for the dispensing of
drugs and pharmaceutical products to the patients of the said organization. In
addition to the above, the MEDICAL CENTER OR MEDICAL CLINIC may include the
space for the practice of dentistry.
      CLUB OR LODGE (PRIVATE). A non-profit association of persons who are bona
fide members paying annual dues, which owns, hires or leases a building or
portion thereof, the use of such premises being restricted to members and their
guest.
      COMPOSITE MATERIALS. Natural or manmade materials or combinations of said
materials, other than steel, aluminum, or vinyl or other plastic or metal
material, in panels or individual units having a long life finish that
resembles wood siding, stone, brick, concrete masonry units or concrete tilt
wall panels. The COMPOSITE MATERIALS shall be painted, fluted, or exposed
aggregate. Other architectural finishes may be approved by the Village Board on
a case by case basis if such finishes incorporate the use of striping,
accenting, trim, cornices, fenestration, banding or other comparable
architectural techniques so as to create an aesthetic appeal similar to the
aforementioned architectural finishes. Smooth or un-textured finishes are not
acceptable unless painted and maintained.
      CONIFERS. Coniferous (evergreen) tree, cone-bearing with year-round green
coloration such as pine, spruce, fir, cedar, and the like.
      COTTAGE FOOD OPERATION. An operation conducted by a person who produces
or packages non-potentially hazardous food in a kitchen located in that
person’s primary domestic residence or another appropriately designed and
equipped residential or commercial-style kitchen on that property for direct
sale by the owner or a family member, stored in the residence or appropriately
designed and equipped residential or commercial-style kitchen on that property
where the food is made.
      COURT (OUTER). An open, unoccupied space opening onto a street, alley or
yard.
      CURB LEVEL. The level of the established curb in front of the building
measured at the center of such front. Where a building faces on more than 1
street, the CURB LEVEL shall be the average of the levels of the curbs at the
center of the front of each street. Where no curb elevation has been
established, the mean level of the land immediately adjacent to the building
shall be considered the CURB LEVEL.
      DAY CARE CENTER. A facility, other than within a residential dwelling
unit, which exclusively provides supplemental care and supervision, recreation,
and/or educational instruction to children or adults during the entire or any
portion of the day. Such facilities are regulated by the Illinois Department of
Children and Family Services (DCFS).
      DAY CARE HOME. A residential dwelling unit that receives more than 3 and
up to a maximum of 12 children for less than 24 hours per day. The number
counted includes the family’s natural or adopted children and all other persons
under the age of 12. Such facilities are regulated by the Illinois Department
of Children and Family Services (DCFS).
      DECIBEL. A unit of measurement of the intensity (loudness) of sound.
      DECIDUOUS. A plant with foliage that is shed annually.
      DECK. A structure attached to or closely adjacent to any dwelling unit
that is:
         (a)   Designed and intended for the support of people;
         (b)   Open to the sky and has no permanent roof; and
         (c)   Is greater than 50 square feet in area.
      DENSITY, GROSS. The total number of dwelling units per gross acre of land
determined by dividing the total gross acreage of a site by the minimum lot or
dwelling unit size of the appropriate residential district.
      DENSITY, NET. The numerical value used as a measurement for the specific
intensity of that portion of a development upon which buildings are placed. NET
DENSITY is obtained by dividing the total number of dwelling units in a
development by the net acreage (gross acreage less acreage devoted to road
right-of-way, stormwater retention/detention) within the development, the
result of which is the number of dwelling units per net acre of land.
      DRIVE-IN OR DRIVE-THROUGH ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business operated
for the sale and purchase of food and other goods, or the rendering of services
which facility is designed and equipped so as to allow its patrons to be served
or accommodated while remaining in their motor vehicle.
      DRIVEWAY. That portion of a lot used to provide access from the street to
a place of residence or business and which has been graded and graveled or
surfaced with concrete, asphalt, crushed stone, or other hard surface and
dustless materials.
      DWARF SHRUB. A deciduous or evergreen shrub which has a height of less
than 6 feet at maturity.
      DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, but not including a house
trailer or mobile home, designed or used exclusively for residential occupancy,
including 1-family dwelling units, 2-family dwelling units, and multiple-family
dwelling units, but not including mobile homes, hotels, boarding, or lodging
houses.
      DWELLING (1-FAMILY). A dwelling unit designed exclusively for use and
occupancy by 1 family.
      DWELLING (2-FAMILY). A building designed or altered to provide dwelling
units for occupancy by 2 families.
      DWELLING (ATTACHED). A dwelling which is joined to another dwelling at 1
or more sides by a party wall or walls.
      DWELLING (DETACHED). A dwelling which is entirely surrounded by open
space and is not connected to any other dwelling unit by roof, walls or
porches.
      DWELLING (MULTIPLE-FAMILY). A building or portion thereof, designed or
altered for occupancy by 3 or more families living independently of each other.
      DWELLING (ROW, PARTY WALL). A row of 2 to 8 attached 1-family, party-wall
dwellings, and not more than 2-1/2 stories in height.
      DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms in a residential building, or
residential portion of a building, which are arranged, designed, used or
intended for use by 1 family, and which includes cooking space and lawful,
sanitary facilities reserved for the occupants thereof.
      EASEMENT. An authorization or grant by a property owner for the use by
another, and for 1 or more specific purposes, of any designated part of the
owner property.
      EDUCATION INSTITUTION. Public, parochial, charitable or non-profit junior
college, college or university, other than trade or business schools, including
instructional and recreational uses, with or without living quarters, dining
rooms, restaurants, heating plants, and other incidental facilities for
students, teachers and employees.
      EFFICIENCY UNIT. A dwelling unit consisting of 1 principal room for
living, sleeping and eating, plus facilities for cooking and a complete bath
and toilet facilities.
      FAMILY. One or more individuals occupying a dwelling unit and living as a
single household unit.
      FENCE. A structure which is a barrier and is used as a boundary or means
of protection or confinement.
      FENCE (SOLID). A fence including gates, which conceals from view from
adjoining properties, streets or alleys, activities conducted behind it.
      FREEWAY. A major highway having no intersections at grade and having
fully controlled access, hence “free” from conflicts and interruptions.
      FREQUENCY. The number of oscillations per second in a sound wave
measuring the pitch of the resulting sound.
      FRONT ELEVATION. The entire exterior wall adjoining the front yard of a
lot, excluding windows, doors, other building openings and the roof.
      FRONTAGE. All the property fronting on 1 side of a street between the
nearest intersecting streets or between a street and a right-of-way, waterway
or other similar barrier.
      GARAGE. Any accessory building or an accessory portion of the principal
building which is intended for and used to store vehicles and in which no
business, service or industry connected directly or indirectly with the
automotive vehicles is carried on.
      GARAGE (BUS). Any building used or intended to be used for the storage of
3 or more passenger motor buses, or motor coaches used in public
transportation, including school buses.
      GLASS WALLS. Shall include glass curtain walls or glass block
construction. GLASS CURTAIN WALL shall be defined as an exterior wall which
carries no structural loads, and which may consist of the combination of glass
or other surfacing material supported in a metal framework.
      GOLF COURSE. Public, semi-public, or private grounds over which the game
of golf is played, including accessory buildings and land uses incidental
thereto.
      GRADE (STREET). The elevation of the established street in front of the
building measured at the center of such front. Where no STREET GRADE has been
established, the Village Engineer shall establish such STREET GRADE or its
equivalent for the purposes of this section.
      GROSS FLOOR AREA (for the purpose of determining requirements for off-
street parking and off-street loading).
         (a)   The FLOOR AREA shall mean the sum of the gross horizontal area
of the several floors of the building or portion thereof, devoted to such use,
including accessory storage areas located within selling or working space, such
as counters, racks, or closets, and any basement floor area devoted to
retailing activities, to the production or processing of goods, or to business
or professional offices.
         (b)   However, FLOOR AREA for the purpose of measurement of off-street
parking and loading spaces shall not include floor area devoted primarily to
storage purposes. The following areas shall not be included for the purpose of
measurement of off-street parking or loading spaces:
            1.   Floor area devoted to off-street parking or loading
facilities, including aisles, ramps and maneuvering space; and
            2.   Basement floor area other than area devoted to retailing or
service activities, or the production or processing of goods, or to business or
professional offices.
      GROUND FLOOR AREA. The lot area covered by a principal building measured
at grade from the exterior faces of the exterior walls, but excluding open
porches or terraces, garages or carports.
      GUEST HOUSE. Living quarters within a detached accessory building located
on the same premises with the principal building for use by temporary guests of
the occupants of the premises. Such quarters shall have no kitchen facilities
nor be rented or otherwise used as a separate dwelling.
      HANDICAPPED. Having a physical, mental or emotional impairment which
substantially limits 1 or more of such person’s major life activities; a record
of having such impairment; or being regarded as having such impairment. The
term shall include, but not be limited to: persons who are developmentally or
physically disabled, the mentally ill, recovering alcoholics, and those who are
suffering from AIDS and other diseases. Such term shall not include current,
illegal use of or addiction to a controlled substance (as defined in Section
102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. § 802)), nor shall it include
any person whose residency in the home would constitute a direct threat to the
health or safety of other individuals or would result in substantial physical
damage to the property of others.
      HOME KITCHEN OPERATION. A person who produces or packages non-potentially
hazardous food in a kitchen of that person’s primary domestic residence for
direct sale by the owner or a family member, or for sale by a religious,
charitable, or nonprofit organization, stored in the residence where the food
is made. The following conditions must be met in order to qualify as a HOME
KITCHEN OPERATION:
         (a)   Monthly gross sales do not exceed $1,000.
         (b)   The food is not a potentially hazardous baked food, as defined
in Section 4 of the Food Handling Regulation Enforcement Act.
         (c)   A notice is provided to the purchaser that the product was
produced in a home kitchen.
      HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation or profession carried on by a member of a
family, residing in a dwelling unit as a use that is clearly incidental to the
use of the dwelling unit for residential purposes.
      HOSPITAL OR SANITARIUM. An institution devoted primarily to the
maintenance and operation of facilities for the diagnosis, treatment or care of
individuals suffering from illness, disease, injury, deformity or other
abnormal physical conditions.
      HOTEL OR MOTEL. An establishment containing lodging accommodations
designed for use by transients, or travelers or temporary guests. Facilities
provided may include maid service, laundering of linen used on the premises,
telephone and secretarial or desk service, meeting rooms, and restaurants and
banquet facilities.
      JUNK YARD. An open area where waste, scrap metal, or similar materials
are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled, or handled,
including auto and building wrecking yards, but excluding similar uses taking
place entirely within a completely enclosed building.
      KENNEL (COMMERCIAL). Any lot or premises or portion thereof on which more
than 4 dogs, cats or other household domestic animals over 4 months of age, are
kept, or on which more than 2 such animals are boarded for compensation or kept
for sale.
      LABORATORY (COMMERCIAL). A place devoted to experimental study such as
testing and analyzing. Manufacturing, assembly or packaging of products is not
included within this definition.
      LANDSCAPE SPACE. A portion of any development site not covered by
buildings, parking, sidewalks or other paved surfaces.
      LANDSCAPING. Any combination of living plants (such as grass, ground
cover, shrubs, vines, hedges, or trees) and nonliving landscape material (such
as rocks, pebbles, sand, mulch, walls, fences, or decorative paving materials).
      LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACE OR BERTH (OFF-STREET). An open, hard-surfaced
area of land, other than a street or a public way, the principal use of which
is for the standing, loading and unloading of motor vehicles, tractors and
trailers, to avoid undue interference with public streets and alleys. Such
space shall not be less than 10 feet in width, 25 feet in length, and 14 feet
in height, exclusive of access aisles and maneuvering space.
      LOT. Parcel of land legally described as a distinct portion or piece of
land of record through the subdivision or platting process.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1878.jpg]
 
      LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane bounded by vertical planes
containing the front, side and rear lot lines.
      LOT (CORNER). A lot situated at the junction of and adjacent to two or
more intersecting streets; or a lot at the point of deflection in alignment of
a single street, the interior angle of which is 130 degrees or less.
      LOT COVERAGE. The area of a zoning lot occupied by the principal building
or buildings, accessory structures, and impervious improvements such as
driveways, patios, and sidewalks.
      LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines of a lot measured within the lot boundaries.
      LOT FRONTAGE. The FRONT of a lot shall be that boundary of a lot along a
public street; for a corner lot the owner may elect either street line as the
front lot line. LOT FRONTAGE shall be measured at the front setback line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1880.jpg]
 
      LOT (INTERIOR). A lot other than a corner or reversed corner lot.
      LOT LINE. A line of record bounding a lot which separates one lot from
another lot or from a public or private street or any other public space. Also
known as a PROPERTY LINE.
      LOT LINE (INTERIOR). A side lot line common with another lot.
      LOT LINE (SIDE). Lot line other than front or rear lot lines are SIDE LOT
LINES.
      LOT OF RECORD. An area designated as a lot on a plat or subdivision
recorded or a parcel of land with a legally recorded deed in accordance with
the Illinois Plat Act as amended.
      LOT, REVERSED CORNER. A corner lot, the rear of which is adjacent to the
side of another lot, whether across an alley or lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1882.jpg]
 
      LOT (THROUGH). A lot having frontage on 2 parallel or approximately
parallel streets, and which is not a corner lot. On a THROUGH LOT both street
lines shall be deemed front lot lines.
      LOT WIDTH. The mean horizontal distance between the side lot lines
measured within the boundaries, or the minimum distance between the side lot
lines within the buildable area.
      LOT, ZONING. A parcel of land, composed of 1 or more recorded lots or a
parcel of land described by metes and bounds, that is of sufficient size to
meet the minimum district requirements of this chapter and having frontage on
an improved public street, and which is designated by its owner or developer as
a tract of land to be used, developed, or built upon as a unit, under a single
ownership or control. A ZONING LOT may or may not coincide with the definition
of a lot of record.
      MANUFACTURE. The production or processing of products or commodities for
general consumption of the public or for sale to specialized institutions or
organizations. Also included is the sub-assembly, fabrication, or processing of
parts or components for use in other products or commodities.
      MARQUEE OR CANOPY. A rooflike structure of a permanent nature which
projects from the wall of a building and may overhang the public way, and is
designed and intended to protect pedestrians from adverse weather conditions.
      MASONRY CONSTRUCTION. Includes all construction of stone material
(including manufactured stone products), brick material, concrete masonry
units, or for non-single-family residential concrete panel construction, which
is composed of solid, cavity, faced, or veneered-wall construction. The
standards for MASONRY CONSTRUCTION types are listed below:
         (a)   STONE MATERIAL. Masonry construction using stone material may
consist of granite, marble, limestone, slate, river rock, and other hard and
durable naturally occurring all weather stone. Cut stone, dimensioned stone,
and manufactured stone products are acceptable.
         (b)   BRICK MATERIAL. Brick material used for masonry construction
shall be hard fired (kiln fired) clay, calcium silicate (sand/lime), shale or
slate material which meets the latest version of ASTM standard C216, Standard
Specification for Facing Brick (Slid Masonry Unit Made of Clay or Shale), and
shall be severe weather (SW) grade, and Type FBA or FBS or better. No unfired
or under-fired brick shall be permitted.
         (c)   CONCRETE MASONRY UNITS. Concrete masonry units used for masonry
construction shall meet the latest version of the following applicable
specifications; ASTM C90, Standard Specification for Loadbearing Concrete
Masonry Units (hollow and solid); ASTM C129, Standard Specification for
Nonloadbearing Units (hollow and solid). Concrete masonry units shall have an
indented, hammered, split face finish or other similar architectural finish,
integrally colored, subject to approval by the Village Board. Lightweight
concrete block not conforming to the foregoing standards or cinder block
construction shall not be acceptable as exterior finishes.
         (d)   CONCRETE PANEL CONSTRUCTION. Concrete finish, pre-cast panel or
tilt wall construction shall be painted, fluted, or exposed aggregate. Other
architectural concrete finishes may be approved by the Village Board on a case
by case basis if such finishes incorporate the use of striping, accenting,
trim, cornices, fenestration, banding or other comparable architectural
techniques so as to create an aesthetic appeal similar to the aforementioned
architectural concrete finishes. Smooth or un-textured concrete finishes are
not acceptable unless painted and maintained.
      MASSAGE. A system of structured palpation or movement of the soft tissue
of the body. The system may include, but is not limited to, techniques such as
effleurage or stroking and gliding, petrissage or kneading, tapotement or
percussion, friction, vibration, compression, and stretching activities. These
techniques may be applied by a licensed massage therapist with or without the
aid of lubricants, salt or herbal preparations, hydromassage, thermal massage,
or a massage device that mimics or enhances the actions possible by human
hands. MASSAGE does not include actions taken by licensed acupuncturists,
chiropractors, cosmetologists, estheticians, nail technicians, naprapaths,
nurses, occupational therapists, physical therapists, physicians, or
podiatrists in a manner consistent with applicable state licensing
requirements, their training and the code of ethics of their respective
professions.
      MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment having a fixed place of business
where any person, firm, association, or corporation receives compensation for
engaging in or carrying on or permitting to be engaged in or carried on any of
the activities constituting a massage.
      MASSAGE THERAPIST. A person who is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Professional Regulation and administers massages for compensation.
      MEDICAL CANNABIS DISTRIBUTION FACILITIES. Shall mean a “cultivation
center” or a “medical cannabis dispensing organization” as defined in the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act (hereinafter the
“Compassionate Use Act”).
      MICROBREWERY OR BREW PUB. A restaurant-brewery that brews beer primarily
for sale in a restaurant and is dispensed directly from the brewery’s storage
tanks. Total production capacity shall not exceed 15,000 barrels per calendar
year (465,000 gallons). One U.S. barrel is equivalent to 31 gallons.
      MICRODISTILLERY. A small-scale artisan manufacturing business that
blends, ferments, processes, packages, distributes and serves alcoholic spirits
on and off the premises and produces no more than 15,000 gallons per calendar
year on-site. The MICRODISTILLERY facility may include an ancillary tasting
room and retail component in which guests/customers may sample and purchase the
product. Offsite distribution of the alcoholic beverages shall be consistent
with state law.
      MICROWINERY. Combination retail, wholesale and small-scale artisan
manufacturing business that blends, ferments, processes, packages, distributes
and serves wine for sale on or off-site, and produces no more than 100,000
gallons per year. The MICROWINERY facility may include an ancillary tasting
room and retail component in which guests/customers may sample and purchase the
product. Offsite distribution of the vinous beverages shall be consistent with
state law.
      MOBILE FOOD VENDOR. A self-contained food service operation, located in a
readily movable motorized wheeled or towed vehicle, used to store, prepare,
display or serve food intended for individual portion service.
      MOBILE HOME. A structure designed for permanent habitation and so
constructed as to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily or permanently
attached to its frame, from the place of its construction to the location, or
subsequent locations, at which it is intended to be a permanent habitation and
designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for 1 or more
persons.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel or tract of land developed with facilities for
locating 2 or more mobile homes provided each mobile home contains a kitchen,
flush toilet, and shower or bath and that such MOBILE HOME PARK shall be for
the use only by non-transient dwellers remaining continuously for more than 6
months, whether or not a change is made. It shall not include a sales lot in
which motor vehicles or unoccupied trailers are parked for the purpose of
inspection or sale.
      MODULAR HOME. A building assembly or system of building sub-assemblies,
designed for habitation as a dwelling for 1 or more persons, including the
necessary electrical, plumbing, heating, ventilating, and other service
systems, which is of closed or open construction and which is made or assembled
by a manufacturer, on or off the building site, for installation or assembly
and installation on the building site, with a permanent foundation as approved
by the building code.
      MOVING CONTAINER. A portable, weather resistant receptacle used for the
temporary storage of household goods; building materials or merchandise. MOVING
CONTAINERS have a storage capacity of 1,024 cubic feet or less.
      MULTI-FAMILY STRUCTURES. Residential buildings with 3 or more residential
units including, but not limited to, apartment buildings, townhomes, and
condominiums.
      NAMEPLATE. A sign indicating the name and address of a building or the
name of an occupant thereof and the practice of a permitted occupation therein.
      NET SITE AREA. The area of a zoning lot, parcel or tract, excluding
boundary rights-of-way.
      NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot that lawfully existed prior to the enactment of
the requirements of this chapter, but which does not meet the minimum lot size
or lot width requirements of the zoning district in which it is located.
      NONCONFORMING USE. Any building, structure, or land lawfully occupied by
a use which was lawfully established at the time of the adoption of this
chapter, or amendments thereto, and which does not conform after the effective
date of this chapter, or amendments thereto, with the use regulations of this
chapter. Said use shall be an active and actual use of the land and/or
buildings which existed prior to the effective date of this chapter.
      NOXIOUS MATTER. Material which is capable of causing injury to living
organisms by chemical reaction or is capable of causing detrimental effects
upon the psychological, social or economic well-being of human beings.
      OCCUPANCY CERTIFICATE. A certificate issued by the Building Inspector
stating the occupancy and use of land or a building or structure referred to
therein complies with the provisions of this chapter.
      OCTAVE BAND. A means of dividing the range of sound frequencies into
octaves in order to classify sound according to pitch.
      OCTAVE BAND FILTER. An electrical frequency analyzer, designed according
to standards formulated by the American Standards Association and used in
conjunction with a sound level meter to take measurements in specific octave
intervals (American Standard for Sound Level Meters, A.S.A. No. 244, 3-1944).
      OPEN SALES LOT. A lot or parcel of land used or occupied for the purpose
of outdoor buying, selling, or trading of goods and commodities and including
the storage of same prior to sale or exchange.
      ORDINANCE. Reference to ORDINANCE or THIS CHAPTER shall be construed as
the Diamond Zoning Ordinance.
      ORNAMENTAL TREES. Deciduous trees generally smaller in stature than shade
trees and ranging in size up to 25 feet.
      OUTDOOR SALES AND DINING (SEASONAL). Temporary outdoor retail operations
or displays of plants, fruits and vegetables that are sold during a specific
season, including such items as Christmas trees, pumpkins, watermelons, sweet
corn, and budding plants. Also, outdoor dining when associated with a
restaurant.
      OUTDOOR STORAGE. The keeping, in an unenclosed area, of any goods,
equipment, junk, material, merchandise, or vehicles in the same place for more
than 24 hours.
      PARKING AREA. An open, hard-surfaced area, other than a street or public
way, intended to be used for the storage motor vehicles under 1-1/2 tons
capacity, whether for compensation, free or as an accommodation to clients or
customers.
      PARKING SPACE (AUTOMOBILE). Space within a public or private parking area
of not less than 162 square feet (9 feet by 18 feet), exclusive of access
drives, or aisles, ramps, columns or office and work areas, for the storage of
1 passenger automobile or commercial vehicle under 1-1/2 tons capacity.
      PARKWAY. That portion of the village-owned property between the curb
line, shoulder line, traveled portion of the roadway or alley and the private
property line.
      PARTICULATE MATTER. Material which is suspended in or discharged into the
atmosphere in finely divided form as a liquid or solid at atmospheric pressure
and temperature.
      PERFORMANCE STANDARD. A criterion to control noises, odor, smoke, toxic
or noxious matter, vibration, fire and explosive hazards, or glare or heat
generated by or inherent in uses of land or buildings.
      PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE. Commercial mobile services, unlicensed
wireless services, and common carrier wireless exchange access services.
      PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITIES. Facilities for the provision of
personal wireless services.
      PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION. The Planning and Zoning Commission of the
Village of Diamond, as constituted by this chapter.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A development approved in accordance with the
planned unit development procedures of §§
151.245 - 151.249, Planned Unit Developments, or the planned unit development
procedures in effect at the time the development was approved.
      PORCH. A roofed-over structure, projecting out from the wall or walls of
a main structure and partially open to the weather.
      PRINCIPAL USE. The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use.
      PUBLIC OPEN SPACE. Any publicly-owned open area, including but not
limited to the following: parks, playgrounds, forest preserves, beaches, and
waterways.
      PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, corporation or municipal department,
duly authorized to furnish under public regulation to the public, electricity,
gas, steam, telephone, cable television, internet, transportation, water or
sewer.
      PUBLIC WAY. Any sidewalk, street, alley, highway, or other public
thoroughfare.
      REPLACEMENT VALUE. Three times the assessed valuation of the improvement
(based on information obtained from the Grundy or Will County Assessor). When
assessed valuation data is not available, REPLACEMENT VALUE shall be determined
by an insurance adjuster. If the property is not insured and assessed value
information is not available, the average quotes from a minimum of 2 general
contractors shall be used.
      RESTAURANT. Any land, building or part thereof, other than a boarding
house, where meals are provided for compensation, including a café, cafeteria,
coffee shop, lunch room, drive-in stand, tearoom and dining room, and including
the serving of alcoholic beverages when served with and incidental to the
serving of meals.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land, typically dedicated to the public, and
occupied or intended to be occupied by a street, railroad, or utility
transmission line.
      ROADSIDE STAND. A building used or intended to be used solely by the
owner or tenant of the farm on which such building is located, for the sale of
the farm products raised on said farm.
      SANITARY LAND FILL. A method of disposing of solid fill by spreading and
covering with earth to a depth of 2 feet on the top surface and 1 foot on the
sides of the bank.
      SHADE TREES. Deciduous (hardwood) tree having a mature height of 25 feet
or greater and having a broad spread of branches with leaves providing shade
during summer months and shedding leaves each autumn.
      SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEM (SWES). Equipment that converts and then stores
or transfers energy from the wind into useable forms of energy. This equipment
includes any base, blade, foundation, generator, rotor, tower, transformer,
vane, wire, inverter, batteries, or other component used in the system. Such
systems shall have a nameplate capacity of 100 kilowatts or less.
      SOLAR ENERGY DEVICE. Equipment that converts and then stores or transfers
energy from the sun into useable forms of energy.
      SWIMMING POOL. Any structure, basin, chamber, or tank containing an
artificial body of water for swimming or wading, having a depth of 2 feet or
more at any point, including but not limited to inflatable pools.
      TAVERN OR LOUNGE. A building where liquors are sold to be consumed on the
premises but not including restaurants where the principal business is serving
food.
      TOWNHOME. Three or more dwelling units that are attached by vertical
party walls (i.e., side-by-side, not stacked).
      TOXIC MATERIALS. A substance (liquid, solid or gaseous) which, by reason
of an inherent deleterious property, tends to destroy life or impair health.
      TRUCK PARKING AREA OR YARD. Any land used or intended to be used for the
storage parking of trucks, trailers, tractors and including commercial
vehicles, while not loading or unloading, which exceeds 1-1/2 tons in capacity.
      USE. The purpose for which land or a building is designed, arranged or
intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained, let or leased.
      VARIANCE. Permission to depart from the terms of this chapter where such
departure will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to
conditions peculiar to the property a literal enforcement of this chapter would
result in unnecessary and undue hardship.
      VEHICLE REPAIR (MAJOR). Engine rebuilding or major reconditioning of worn
or damaged motor vehicles or trailers; collision service, including body, frame
or fender straightening or repair and painting of vehicles.
      VEHICULAR USE AREAS. All areas subject to vehicular traffic including,
but not limited to, access ways, driveways, loading areas, service areas, and
parking stalls for all types of vehicles. This definition shall not apply to
covered parking structures or underground parking lots.
      YARD. An open space on the same zoning lot with a principal building or
group of buildings, which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its lowest level
upward, except as otherwise permitted herein, and which extends along a lot
line and at right angles thereto to a depth or width specified in the yard
regulations for the district in which the zoning lot is located.
      YARD (FRONT). A yard extending along the full length of the front lot
line between side lot lines.
      YARD (REAR). A yard extending along the full length of the rear lot line
between side lot lines.
      YARD (SIDE). A yard extending along a side lot line from the front yard
to the rear yard.
      ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. Wherever the term ZONING ADMINISTRATOR is used it
shall mean the Zoning Administrator appointed by the Mayor and Village Board
and such deputies, assistants or consultants as have been or shall be duly
appointed. That officer is hereby authorized and it is his or her duty to
administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter, making such
determinations, interpretations and orders as are necessary therefor, and
requiring such plats, plans and other descriptive material in connection with
applications for permits as are necessary for him or her to judge compliance
with this chapter.
      ZONING LOT. A single tract of land within a single block which (at the
time of filing for a building permit) is designated by its owner or developer
as a tract to be used, developed or built upon as a unit, under single
ownership or control. Therefore, a ZONING LOT may or may not coincide with a
lot of record.
      ZONING MAP. The map incorporated herein as a part hereof, designating
zoning districts.
(Ord. 2015-08, §§ 2.01, 2.02, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.003 INTERPRETATIONS.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. The provisions herein shall be held to be the
minimum requirements necessary to fulfill this chapter’s stated purpose, and
for the promotion of the public health, safety, morals and welfare.
   (B)   Existing violations. No building, structure, or use not lawfully
existing at the time of the adoption of this chapter shall become or be made
lawful solely by reason of the adoption of this chapter and to the extent that
said unlawful building, structure, or use is in conflict with the requirements
of this chapter, said building, structure, or use shall remain unlawful
hereunder.
   (C)   Permits required. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be deemed to
consent to, license, or permit to use any property or to locate, construct, or
maintain any building, structure, site, facility, or operation, or to carry on
any trade, industry, occupation, or activity without first obtaining an
appropriate building permit, storm water management permit and/or zoning
certificate.
   (D)   Provisions are cumulative. The provisions of this chapter shall be
interpreted to be cumulative of, and to impose limitations in addition to, all
other ordinances, laws, codes, and regulations in existence or which may be
passed governing any subject matter of this chapter. To the greatest extent
possible, the provisions of this chapter shall be construed to be consistent
with, and not conflict with, the provisions of such other ordinances, laws,
codes, and regulations, and with each other, to the end that all such
provisions may be given their fullest application.
   (E)   Conflicting regulations.
      (1)   If a provision of this chapter is inconsistent with the provision
of a federal or state law, the provision that imposes more restriction or
greater control on development shall apply, to the extent permitted by law.
      (2)   If a provision of this chapter is inconsistent with another
provision in this zoning chapter, or is inconsistent with another municipal
code provision, the provision that imposes more restrictions or greater control
on development shall apply.
      (3)   The zoning chapter is not intended to abrogate, interfere or annul
any covenant, easement, deed restriction, or agreement between private parties.
If the provisions of this chapter impose more restrictions or greater control
on development, the provisions of this chapter shall apply. The village does
not enforce private agreements.
      (4)   This zoning chapter contains tables and figures. In some cases the
tables and figures are used in lieu of text; in other cases the tables and
figures are meant to supplement or clarify the meaning of the text. In cases
where there is a conflict between the text of this zoning chapter and a table
or figure of this zoning chapter, the provisions as expressed in the text shall
apply.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 3.01, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.004 SEPARABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Village of Diamond that the
several provisions of this chapter are separable, in accordance with the
following:
   (A)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall deem any provision of
this chapter to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other provisions
not specifically included in said judgment.
   (B)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall deem invalid the
application of any provision of this chapter to a particular property, building
or other structure, such judgment shall not affect the application of said
provisions to any other property, building or structure not specifically
included in said judgment.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 3.02, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.005 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Change in structures or use. Except as may otherwise be provided, all
buildings erected hereafter, all uses of land or buildings established
hereafter, all structural alterations or relocation of existing buildings
occurring hereafter, and all enlargements of or additions to existing uses
occurring hereafter shall be subject to all regulations herein which are
applicable to the zoning districts in which such buildings, uses or land shall
be located.
   (B)   Nonconforming buildings, structures and uses. Any lawful building,
structure or use existing at the time of the enactment of the zoning chapter
may be continued, even though such building, structure or use does not conform
to the provisions herein for the district in which it is located, and whenever
a district shall be changed hereafter, the then existing lawful use may be
continued, subject to the provisions in §§
151.035 -
151.043, Nonconforming Buildings and Uses.
   (C)   Building permits. Where a building permit for a building or structure
has been issued in accordance with law prior to the effective date of this
chapter, and provided that construction is begun within 180 days of such
effective date and diligently prosecuted to completion, said building or
structure may be completed in accordance with approval plans on the basis of
which the building permit was issued, and further may upon completion be
occupied under a certificate of occupancy by the use for which originally
designated, subject thereafter to the provisions of §§
151.035 -
151.043, Nonconforming Buildings and Uses.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 3.03, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.006 USE AND BULK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   New uses. No building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be
erected, constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, moved or structurally altered,
and no building, structure, or land shall hereafter be used, occupied, or
arranged or designed for use or occupancy, nor shall any excavating or grading
be commenced in connection with any of the above matters, except as permitted
by the regulations herein which are applicable to the zoning district which
such building, structure, or land is located. No use of a structure or parcel
of land that is designated as a special use in any zoning district shall
hereafter be established, and no existing special use shall hereafter be
changed to another special use, in such district, unless a special use permit
has been secured in accordance with the provisions of §
151.209, Special uses, of this chapter.
   (B)   Existing uses. Except as may otherwise be provided, all structural
alterations or relocations of existing buildings occurring after the effective
date of this chapter, and all enlargement of or additions to existing uses
occurring hereafter, shall be subject to all regulations herein which are
applicable to the zoning district in which such buildings, uses, or land shall
be located.
   (C)   Existing special uses. Where a structure and use thereof of land
lawfully exists on the effective date of this chapter, and is classified by
this chapter as a special use in the district where it is located, such use
shall be considered a lawful special use. A special use permit issued in
accordance with procedures herein set forth is required only for any expansion
or major alteration of such existing legal special use. If the special use
ceases for a period of more than 1 year, the special use permit shall be void
and the special use cannot again be started. No lawful special use shall be
changed to any other use unless such new use is a permitted use in the district
in which the property is located; nor shall such lawful special use be altered
or expanded in any manner, except in compliance with the following:
      (1)   Application amending the legal special use filed in accordance with
§
151.209, Special uses.
      (2)   The use shall comply with all other requirements of the district in
which the property is located.
      (3)   The use shall comply with all requirements established under §
151.209, Special uses.
   (D)   Uses not specifically permitted in district are prohibited. Except as
hereinafter provided, when a use is not specifically listed as a permitted or
special use in any specific zoning district, such use shall be expressly
prohibited.
   (E)   Compliance with regulations. No structure, or part thereof, shall
hereafter be built, moved or remodeled in such a way that creates or increases
the degree of nonconformance, and no structure or lot shall hereafter be used,
occupied, arranged or designed for use or occupancy on a zoning lot which is
not in conformance with the site and structure requirements of the zoning
district or as otherwise permitted pursuant to a special use permit issued in
accordance with §
151.209, Special uses.
   (F)   Time limitations. Where the Zoning Officer has issued a special use
permit, a temporary use permit, or a permit for a variance pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, such permit shall become null and void unless work
thereon is substantially under way within 1 year of the date of the issuance of
such permit by the Zoning Officer.
   (G)   Continued conformity with bulk regulations. The maintenance of yards
and other open space and minimum lot area legally required for a building shall
be a continuing obligation of the property owner as long as the building is in
existence. Further, no legally required yards, open space, or minimum lot area
allocated to any building shall, by virtue of a change in ownership or for any
other reason be used to satisfy yard, open space, or minimum lot area
requirements for any other building.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 3.04, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.007 BUILDING HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS.
   All new buildings and structure shall conform to the building height
regulations established herein for the district in which each building shall be
located, except that parapet walls, chimneys, cooling towers, elevator
bulkheads, fire towers, stacks and necessary mechanical appurtenances shall be
permitted to exceed the maximum height provisions when erected in accordance
with all other ordinances of the village.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 3.05, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.008 YARDS.
   (A)   Maintenance of yards, courts and other open spaces. The maintenance of
yards, courts and other open spaces and minimum lot area legally required for a
building shall be a continuing obligation of the owner of such building or of
the property on which it is located, as long as the building is in
existence. Furthermore, no legally required yards, courts or other open space,
or minimum lot area allocated to any building, shall by virtue of change of
ownership or for any other reason, be used to satisfy yard, court, other open
space or minimum lot area requirements for any other building.
   (B)   Division of zoning lots. No zoning lot shall hereafter be divided into
2 or more zoning lots unless all improved zoning lots resulting from each such
division shall conform to all the applicable bulk regulations of the zoning
district in which the property is located.
   (C)   Location of required open space. All yards, courts and other open
spaces allocated to a building shall be located on the same zoning lot as such
building or dwelling group.
   (D)   Required yards for existing buildings. No yards allocated to a
building, structure or use existing on the effective date of this chapter shall
be subsequently reduced, or be further reduced below the yard requirements of
this chapter except a yard adjoining a street may be reduced in depth or width
in the event and to the extent, that the right-of-way width of such street
adjoining such yard is subsequently increased.
   (E)   Permitted obstructions in required yards. The following Table 151.008
(E), Permitted Obstructions in Required Yards, lists items that are permitted
in yards and the location(s) where they are permitted. A “P” denotes that the
obstruction is permitted and an “N” denotes that the obstruction is not
permitted.
Table 151.008(E): Permitted Obstructions in Required Yards
Projection, Obstruction, or Accessory Use with Yard
Limitations                                    Front Rear Side Corner Side
Table 151.008(E): Permitted Obstructions in Required Yards
                                                                             Yard
Projection, Obstruction, or Accessory Use with Limitations                   Front Rear Side Corner
                                                                                             Side
Accessory buildings, subject to the provisions of §                         N     P    P    P
151.015, Accessory buildings
Air conditioning units, window, provided they do not extend more than 2 feet N     P    P    P
from window
Air conditioning units and equipment, other than window, provided they are   N     P    P    P
at least 4 feet from all property lines
Arbors and trellises                                                         P     P    P    P
Awnings and canopies, providing they project less than 6 feet from façade   P     P    P    P
and at least 7 feet, 6 inches above grade
Balconies, open; providing they project less than 6 feet from façade and at P     P    P    P
least 7 feet, 6 inches above grade
Basketball goal on non-recreational land use, limited to 1 pole or garage    P     P    P    P
mounted goal and shall be at least 5 feet from all property lines
Chimney, projecting no more than 2 feet from the primary building            N     P    P    P
Garages, detached                                                            N     P    P    N
Decks and terraces in a residential district, provided that they are at      N     P    P    P
least 7 feet from all property lines
Dish antennas
   Greater than 30 inches diameter                                        N     P    N    N
   Less than 30 inches diameter                                           N     P    P    P
Dog runs, enclosed, provided that the minimum distance to any and all        N     P    N    N
property lines is at least 10 feet
Fences, not to exceed 4 feet in front yard and 6 feet in all side and rear   P     P    P    P
yards
Flagpoles                                                                    P     P    P    P
Laundry drying equipment                                                     N     P    N    N
Patios with patio covers in a residential district, provided that they are   N     P    P    P
at least 7 feet from all side and rear property lines
Patios without patio covers in a residential district, provided that they
are at least 4 feet from all side property lines and at least 15 feet from   N     P    P    N
all front property lines (and outside of any easements)
Ramps for use by disabled persons                                            P     P    P    P
Recreation vehicle parking or storage                                        N     P    P    P
Sheds, and storage buildings (see §                                         N     P    P    N
151.015)
Steps, open without roof                                                     P     P    P    P
Swimming pools, private                                                      N     P    N    N
Television or radio towers or antennas, provided that they are at least 5    N     P    N    N
feet from all property lines
Tennis courts, private, provided not less than 10 feet from any property     N     P    N    N
line or the minimum setback, whichever is more restrictive
Trash dumpsters and/or garbage receptacles                                   N     P    P    N
Volleyball, basketball, shuffleboard and other courts, private, provided
that they are in a residential district and not less than 10 feet from any   N     P    N    N
property line
 
 
   (F)   Vision clearance; corner lots. No building or structure hereafter
erected and no planting or other obstruction to the vision of drivers of motor
vehicles shall be located:
      (1)   In any residential district, exceeding a height of 3 feet above the
street grade within 25 feet of the intersecting right-of-way lines bordering
corner lots; and
      (2)   In any business or industrial district, within 12 feet of the
intersecting right-of-way lines bordering a corner lot, provided that this
regulation shall not apply to that part of a building above the 1st floor.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1892.jpg]
 
   (G)   Exceptions for existing developments. Where 40% or more of the
frontage on 1 side of a street between 2 intersecting streets is developed with
buildings that have not observed a front yard as herein required, then the
minimum front yard shall be the average of all building setbacks on the block.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 3.06, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.009 LOT AREA AND DIMENSIONS.
   (A)   Contiguous parcels. When 2 or more parcels of land, each of which
lacks adequate area and dimension to qualify for a permitted use under the
requirements of the use district in which they are located, are contiguous and
are held in 1 ownership, they shall be used as 1 zoning lot for such use.
   (B)   Lots or parcels of land of record. Any single lot or parcel of land,
held in 1 ownership which was of record at the time of adoption of this
chapter, that does not meet the requirements for minimum lot width and area,
may be utilized for a permitted use provided that all yards, courts or usable
open spaces are not less than 75% of the minimum required dimensions of such
areas. If the lot width or area is less than 75% of the required dimensions or
area, a variance may be requested (see § 151.206).
(Ord. 2015-08, § 3.07, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.010 ACCESS TO PUBLIC STREETS.
   Except as otherwise provided for herein, every building shall be constructed
or erected upon a lot or parcel of land which is adjacent to a public street
and is provided with facilities for ingress and/or egress to and from such
public street, unless a permanent easement of access to a public street was of
record prior to the adoption of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 3.08, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.011 ACCESS ACROSS PROPERTY.
   No lot shall be used for motor vehicle access to any other lot or land
unless such access has been approved by the Village Board.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 3.09, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.012 NUMBER OF BUILDINGS ON A ZONING LOT.
   Not more than 1 principal building may be located on a single lot of record
or a single zoning lot unless otherwise authorized within each zoning district.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 3.10, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.013 MULTIPLE USES ON A ZONING LOT.
   Where 2 or more permitted or special uses, each requiring a minimum area and
width, are provided in the same building or on the same lot, the required area
and width shall be the sum of the areas and width required for each use
individually.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 3.11, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.014 THROUGH LOTS.
   On vacant through lots, the front lot lines shall be along the street right-
of-way designated by the Zoning Administrator except that when a front lot line
has been established on 1 or more lots in the same block and all have front lot
lines established along the same street right-of-way line, the street right-of-
way line designated as the front lot line for such lot or lots shall be the
front line on all vacant through lots in such block. Only such obstructions as
herein permitted in front yards shall be located in that part of a rear yard
adjoining a street that is equivalent in depth to a required front yard, except
for lots backing to thoroughfares in subdivisions where no-access strips have
been provided on the recorded plats.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 3.12, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.015 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Location.
      (1)   Accessory buildings may be attached or detached from the principal
building. Accessory uses may be within an accessory building or within a
principal building. When a side yard is required, no part of an accessory
building shall be located closer than 7 feet to the side lot line along such
side yard. When a rear yard is required, no part of an accessory building shall
be located closer than 7 feet to the rear lot line or to those portions of the
side lot lines adjacent to such required rear yard. In a residential district,
no detached accessory building shall be closer than 10 feet to the principal
building.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the above provisions, no accessory building or
structure shall encroach on a utility easement without waivers from local
public or quasi-public entities or utility companies to which such easement was
dedicated. No accessory building or structure shall be located in a drainage
easement so as to impede or obstruct the flow of surface water.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1894.jpg]
 
   (B)   Time of construction. No accessory building or structure shall be
constructed on any lot prior to the start of construction of the principal
building to which it is accessory.
   (C)   Percentage of required rear yard occupied. No accessory building or
buildings shall occupy more than 40% of the area of a required rear yard.
   (D)   Height of accessory buildings in required rear yards. No accessory
building or portion thereof located in a required rear yard shall exceed 15
feet in height.
   (E)   On reversed corner lots. On a reversed corner lot in a residential
district, no accessory building or portion thereof located in a required rear
yard shall be closer to the side lot line adjacent to the street
than the required front yard on the adjacent lot to the rear. Further, in the
above instance, no such accessory building shall be located within 7 feet of
any part of a rear lot line which coincides with a side lot line or portion
thereof of property in a residential district.
   (F)   Canopies. Freestanding canopies for motor vehicles are not permitted
within any residential district.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 3.13, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.016 TEMPORARY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   A temporary real estate office may be allowed in conjunction with a
new housing development, limited to the selling or renting of new units in such
development, but in no case to be in operation for more than 1 year following
completion of construction of said housing development.
   (B)   Temporary buildings for construction purposes may be allowed in any
district for a period not to exceed the completion date of such construction.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 3.14, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.017 MOBILE FOOD VENDORS.
   Mobile food vendors are permitted on private property on paved surfaces in
areas zoned for non-residential use subject to the following requirements:
   (A)   Vendor must have a valid permit from the County Health Department in
which the food vendor is operating (Will or Grundy); and
   (B)   Vendor must have a current business license issued by the village.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 3.15, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.018 ROADS AND STREETS.
   Permits shall not be issued by the village for construction on any
subdivision lot that does not front on an existing connecting all weather road
or street which is in compliance with the requirements of, and approved by, the
appropriate governmental agency having jurisdiction over said road or streets.
When it is necessary to improve or construct a road or street to comply with
the above regulation, it is the responsibility of the owner of said lot.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 3.16, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.019 SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Permitted or special use. A small wind energy system shall be
permitted in any business, industrial or agricultural district and require a
special use permit in any residential district (see § 151.209 for special use
procedures).
   (B)   Standards. Any small wind energy system shall meet the following
standards unless modified through a condition(s) attached to the ordinance
approving the special use.
      (1)   Roof-mounted small wind energy systems shall not exceed 15 feet in
height above the elevation of the roof installation point, measured from the
point of attachment to the top of the turbine blade at its highest point. Small
wind energy systems shall be located no closer than 10 feet from an adjacent
property line.
      (2)   Freestanding small wind energy system shall be set back a distance
equal to 110% of the combined height of the tower plus the length to the tip of
the blade from all adjacent property lines. Additionally, no portion of the
small wind energy system, including guy wire anchors, may extend closer than 10
feet to the property line. The wind energy system shall maintain a circular
clear zone that has a radius which is equivalent to 110% of the combined
distance of the tower height plus the length to the tip of the blade. This
clear zone shall be maintained free of any occupied structures, tanks
containing combustible/flammable liquids, and above ground utility/electrical
lines.
      (3)   Small wind energy systems shall have a non-reflective finish and
shall be neutral in color. Small wind energy systems shall not be artificially
lighted.
      (4)   A building permit shall be required prior to erecting any small
wind energy system. Mounting for such systems shall be in conformance with all
electrical codes and building codes to ensure wind and weight loading
requirements are met. Plans shall be stamped by a licensed structural engineer,
and inspected by a qualified inspector for such installations.
      (5)   An emergency direct current disconnect switch shall be provided in
an accessible location near the electric meter to shut off such system in the
event of an emergency.
      (6)   Small wind energy systems shall have a governor installed to
regulate and limit the speed of the turbine in high wind events.
      (7)   Small wind energy systems not in service for a period of 180 days
shall be removed and the property on which it is located restored to its
original condition within 30 days.
      (8)   Small wind energy systems shall be primarily used to generate
energy for the property where it is located.
      (9)   The small wind energy system shall not exceed 55 decibels using the
A scale (dBA), as measured at the site property line, except during short term
events such as severe wind storms and utility outages.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 3.17, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.020 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Roof mounted solar energy systems.
      (1)   Solar panels shall be permitted on any roof in any zoning district
as permitted accessory uses.
      (2)   Solar panels shall be flush with the roof line when possible, and
shall not be elevated more than 30 degrees off the roof pitch where it is
attached or no more than 5 feet, whichever is less. Solar panels shall not
extend beyond the roof line and shall be located no closer than 10 feet from an
adjacent property line. Solar panels shall not be located on a roof face that
faces the front yard of a lot. Solar panels may cover 100% of the roof of non-
residential buildings provided that they are fully screened from view on all
sides of the building as viewed from ground level.
      (3)   Solar shingles shall be permitted to cover any amount of a roof
without the location limitation above provided that they are incorporated into
and made to appear as part of the roof, continuous in area without gaps,
rectangular in shape and do not cause glare to reflect on to neighboring
properties.
      (4)   All frame and visible structural parts of a solar panel shall match
the roof color. No solar panel shall be artificially lighted.
      (5)   A building permit shall be required prior to erecting any solar
panel. Mounting for such systems shall be in conformance with all electrical
codes and building codes to ensure wind and weight loading requirements are
met. Plans shall be stamped by a licensed structural engineer and by a
qualified inspector for such installation.
      (6)   Solar panels shall not be permitted in any location other than the
surface of the roof of the structure, unless otherwise specified in the subject
zoning district.
      (7)   Solar panels shall be primarily used to generate energy for the
property where it is located.
   (B)   Ground-mounted solar energy systems.
      (1)   Freestanding ground-mounted solar energy systems are permitted
within all business, industrial and agricultural districts. No freestanding
panels shall be allowed in any residential zoning district.
      (2)   Solar panels shall be set back as follows:
         (a)   In all zoning districts, systems shall not be located in any
required front yard or corner side yard;
         (b)   In all zoning districts, systems shall comply with the
respective setback requirements, as measured from the property line to the
closest edge of the system; and
         (c)   The total solar panel surface area shall be included in the
floor area ratio calculations for the respective zoning district.
      (3)   Solar panels shall not exceed the height limits for accessory
structures in the respective zoning district, as measured from adjoining grade
at base to the highest elevation of the equipment.
      (4)   A building permit shall be required prior to erecting any solar
panel. Mounting for such systems shall be in conformance with all electrical
codes and building codes to ensure wind and weight loading requirements are
met. Plans shall be stamped by a licensed structural engineer and by a
qualified inspector for such installation. Plans should identify any buffering
and how the area under the solar panels will be maintained.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 3.18, passed 6-23-2015; Am. Ord. 2022-10, passed 10-25-2022)
§ 151.021 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   General. The standards for home occupations are intended to insure
compatibility with the residential character of the neighborhood and to
maintain the subordinate and incidental status of the home occupation.
   (B)   Performance requirements. A home occupation or profession, where
permitted in a zoning district, shall meet the following performance
requirements in addition to those standards applicable to the district in which
they are located:
      (1)   Not more than 1 person other than members of the immediate family
occupying such dwelling shall be employed on the premises.
      (2)   No alteration of the principal building shall be made which changes
the residential appearance of the dwelling.
      (3)   No more than 25% of the net floor area of the residential dwelling
unit shall be devoted to any home occupation.
      (4)   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in greater
volume than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, and any
need for parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall meet
the off-street parking requirements as specified in §§
151.175 -
151.185, Off-Street Parking, Stacking, and Loading, of this chapter, and shall
not be located in a required front yard.
      (5)   Signage shall be in conformance with §§
151.150 -
151.161, Signs, of this chapter.
      (6)   No equipment or material used shall constitute a hazard, create a
nuisance or interfere with the reception of broadcast signals.
      (7)   The home occupation shall be conducted entirely within the
principal building that is used as the residential dwelling.
      (8)   All material equipment, merchandise or work in process shall be
wholly enclosed within the dwelling or an accessory building.
   (C)   Permitted home occupations.
      (1)   Day care homes licensed by the state.
      (2)   Dressmakers, seamstresses or tailors.
      (3)   Tutors (math, reading, science, and the like), music or dancing
teachers, provided that the instruction shall be limited to 1 pupil at a time,
except for occasional groups.
      (4)   Artists, photographers, sculptors, or authors.
      (5)   Physicians, dentists, or other licensed medical practitioners.
      (6)   Planners, architects, attorneys, engineers, realtors, insurance
agents, brokers, computer programmers and members of similar professions.
      (7)   Offices for salespersons, sales representatives or manufacturers’
representatives; provided that no retail transactions shall be made on the
premises except through telephone, facsimile or mail communication and no
wholesale transactions shall include the acceptance or delivery of merchandise
on the premises.
      (8)   Home kitchen operations; cottage food operations.
   (D)   Prohibited home occupations.
      (1)   Animal hospitals.
      (2)   Clinics or hospitals.
      (3)   Commercial boarding stables or kennels.
      (4)   Dancing schools, except where permitted above.
      (5)   Day care center.
      (6)   Mortuaries.
      (7)   Private clubs.
      (8)   Renting of trailers.
      (9)   Repair shops or service establishments, except the repair of small
electrical appliances and other similar items.
      (10)   Restaurants.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 3.19, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.022 PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Locations.
      (1)   Subject to site plan approval, personal wireless service facilities
shall be considered a permitted use if located on an existing freestanding
tower, including co-locations, on village-owned property. Provided no such
village-owned property meets the needs of the petitioner, location on an
existing freestanding tower, including co-locations, on non-village owned
property shall be considered a permitted use. Prior to construction of such
facilities, the petitioner must receive site plan approval pursuant to review
process set forth in §
151.210, Site plan review, of this chapter;
      (2)   Except as provided in division (A)(1) above, a special use permit
is required and may be requested pursuant to the special use process set forth
in §
151.209 for any use that satisfies the definition of personal wireless service
facility, as defined herein, provided that the proposed location satisfies any
1 of the criteria listed below:
         (a)   The proposed facility is a new structure on village-owned
property pursuant to an agreement with the village and further provided that
such facilities are so designed so as to allow and encourage co-location by
other potential users;
         (b)   The proposed facility is within the B-3, I-1 or I-2 Districts
and is not within 500 feet of a residential zoning district. Further, the
petitioner must perform its due diligence and demonstrate there are no
locations that satisfy the criteria provided in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2)(a)
above. If any such locations do exist, the special use permit may be denied;
and
         (c)   The proposed facility is attached to an existing structure
within a non-residential. The petitioner must perform its due diligence and
demonstrate there are no locations that satisfy the criteria provided in
divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2)(a) above. If any such locations do exist, the
special use permit may be denied.
   (B)   Maximum height for personal wireless service facilities. An applicant
for approval of a personal wireless facility shall demonstrate that the
personal wireless facilities do not exceed the minimum height required to
function satisfactorily. Under any circumstances, personal wireless facilities
shall not exceed the following height restrictions unless otherwise
specifically approved by grant of a special use permit:
      (1)   The maximum height of a freestanding tower shall not exceed 100
feet; provided, however, that an applicant requesting a freestanding tower
shall demonstrate that the tower antenna is the minimum height required to
function satisfactorily;
      (2)   If mounted on the roof of an existing building or structure, the
height of an antenna shall not exceed 10 feet above the height of the existing
structure; provided, however, that the maximum height may be increased if:
         (a)   The radio signal would be impaired or blocked off if the antenna
was located near the middle of the roof; and
         (b)   The Village Board determines that it is preferable to locate the
antenna at a location other than near the edge of the roof.
      (3)   An antenna attached to the side of a building, structure, or tower
shall not extend above the roof of the building, structure, or tower; provided,
however, if the radio signal is distorted or blocked by structures located on
the roof of the building, the Village Board may allow the height to exceed the
height of the building, structure or tower in its discretion.
   (C)   Screening and site location for personal wireless service facilities
attached to freestanding towers.
      (1)   Support structures and antennas shall have a non-contrasting blue,
gray, or similar color that minimizes their visibility and is compatible with
the surrounding landscape;
      (2)   Personal wireless service facilities should be architecturally
compatible with the surrounding buildings and land uses or otherwise
integrated, through location and design, to blend in with the existing
characteristics of the site to the extent practical; and
      (3)   Personal wireless service facilities attached to a freestanding
tower shall not be located between a principal building and a street or in the
front yard of the lot in question. Such freestanding tower shall be located
adjacent to the rear wall of the principal building unless:
         (a)   It is shown that an alternate location results in more effective
screening or blending of the tower into the surrounding landscape; or
         (b)   The location has the effect of interfering with the operations
of the principal use on the subject property; provided, however, such personal
wireless service facilities nevertheless may not be located between the
principal building and the street or in the front yard of the lot in question.
   (D)   Screening and site location for personal wireless service facilities
attached to existing buildings or structures.
      (1)   Personal wireless service facilities may be attached to the wall or
roof of a building subject to height restrictions in this division therein.
Such facilities shall not be attached to the front wall of a building unless it
can be shown that other locations are not feasible and that the facilities
shall be made to effectively blend into the architecture of the building;
      (2)   Personal wireless service facilities and their support structures
attached to an existing building or structure shall be of a color identical to
the building or that maximizes the blending of the facilities and support
structures into the architecture of the building or structure; and
      (3)   Personal wireless service facilities and their support structures
attached to an existing building or structure shall not extend more than 24
inches beyond the wall of such building or structure.
   (E)   Screening and site location for ground level equipment and buildings.
      (1)   Personal wireless service facilities may be attached to the wall or
roof of a building subject to the height restrictions set forth above;
      (2)   Landscaping consisting of shrubs and similar materials shall be
provided surrounding the foundation of ground level buildings, structures, and
fences subject to the review and approval of the Zoning Administrator;
      (3)   Ground level buildings and structures shall be designed and located
to blend with the existing architecture and landscaping of the subject property
and the surrounding area. Masonry façades shall be required for such buildings
or structures unless otherwise allowed as a condition of the special use
approval; and
      (4)   Fencing may be provided as a condition of the special use approval
for the purpose of enclosing and screening freestanding towers or antennas and
their support facilities. Such fencing shall comply with the requirements for
residential fences contained in this chapter, except as specifically authorized
by conditions for approval of a special use.
   (F)   Compliance with governmental and other safety regulations.
      (1)   The applicant shall demonstrate that the proposed antennas and
support structure are safe and that surrounding areas will not be negatively
affected by support structure failure, falling ice, or other debris. All
support structures shall be fitted with anticlimbing devices, as approved by
the manufacturer;
      (2)   All towers and antennas shall comply with the current standards and
regulations of the Federal Communications Commission, the Federal Aviation
Administration, and any other agency of the federal government with the
authority to regulate owners and antennas; and
      (3)   Upon application and approval, the village shall issue a building
permit prior to construction of any tower or antenna. Said building permit
shall verify that towers and antennas are constructed in compliance with
applicable village building codes and any requirements of the Electronic
Industries Standards and the Federal Communications Commission, as well as the
provisions herein.
   (G)   Co-location and location on existing structures preferred. In order to
minimize adverse visual impacts associated with the proliferation of towers,
co-location of antennas by more than 1 provider on existing or new towers and
location of antennas on existing buildings or structures shall take precedence
over the construction of new freestanding towers. If a new, freestanding tower
is proposed, special use approval shall not be granted unless the applicant
demonstrates compliance with the following:
      (1)   A diligent effort has been made to locate the antenna on an
existing structure and that due to valid considerations including physical
constraints and economic or technological feasibility, no other appropriate
location is available;
      (2)   Covenants shall be recorded which require that the applicant allow,
on a commercially reasonable basis, other providers of personal wireless
service facilities and other antennas to co-locate on the proposed freestanding
tower, where such co-location is technologically feasible; and
      (3)   The site plan for the construction of a new, freestanding tower
shall delineate an area, either on site or on adjacent property, near the base
of the tower to be used for the placement of additional equipment and buildings
for other users. To the extent that the site for the new freestanding tower is
adequate to allow co-location on such site, the applicant must allow, on a
commercially reasonable basis, other providers to locate on site.
   (H)   Abandonment of towers or antennas. In the event the use of a tower or
antenna is discontinued for a period of 60 consecutive days, the tower or
antenna shall be deemed to be abandoned. The Zoning Administrator shall
determine the date of abandonment based on documentation required from the
tower owner/operator or other appropriate sources. Upon abandonment, the tower
owner/operator shall have an additional 60 days within which to:
      (1)   Reactivate the use of the tower either by said owner/operator or
transfer of the tower to another owner/operator for such use within the
aforesaid 60-day period. Transfer of the tower to another owner/operator shall
not require special use approval provided use of the tower is re-activated
within the 60-day period, and that the use of the tower complies with all
conditions of the original special use approval and the terms of this chapter;
      (2)   Dismantle and remove the tower at which time any special use shall
become null and void; or
      (3)   Request approval from the Village Board of Commissioners to allow
the abandoned tower or antenna to remain for a specified period of time. If
said approval is granted, the tower shall be reactivated or removed within the
time period approved by the Board of Commissioners as per regulations herein.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 3.20, passed 6-23-2015)
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES
§ 151.035 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to provide for the regulation of
nonconforming buildings, structures, and uses, and to specify those
circumstances and conditions under which those non- conforming buildings,
structures, and uses may be continued.
   (B)   This chapter establishes separate zoning districts, each of which is
an appropriate area for the location of the uses which are permitted in that
zoning district. It is necessary and consistent with the establishments of
those districts that those nonconforming buildings, structures, and uses which
substantially and adversely affect the orderly development and taxable value of
other property in the district not be continued without restriction.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 4.01, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.036 CONTINUANCE OF USE.
   (A)   Any lawfully established building, structure, or use of a building or
land, on the effective date of this chapter or of amendments thereto, that does
not conform to the regulations for the district in which it is located, shall
be deemed to be a legal nonconforming building, structure, or use and may be
continued, except as otherwise provided herein.
   (B)   Any legal, nonconforming building or structure may be continued in use
provided there is no physical change other than necessary maintenance and
repair, except as otherwise permitted herein.
   (C)   Nonconforming status rests with the property, not with the owner. Such
status is not affected by changes in ownership, tenancy, or management.
   (D)   Any building, for which a permit has been lawfully granted prior to
the effective date of this chapter or of amendments thereto, may be completed
in accordance with the approved plans; provided construction is started within
90 days and diligently prosecuted to completion. Such building shall thereafter
be deemed a lawfully established building.
   (E)   Any development that has obtained preliminary and final approval at
the time of adoption of this chapter and which is nonconforming solely as a
result of the adoption of this chapter, may be developed as a legal
nonconforming use, lot, or building per the zoning regulations in effect at the
time of such preliminary and final approval.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 4.02, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.037 DISCONTINUANCE OF USE.
   (A)   Whenever any part of a building, structure or land occupied by a
nonconforming use is changed to or replaced by a use conforming to the
provisions of this chapter, such premises shall not thereafter be used or
occupied by a nonconforming use, even though the building may have been
originally designed and constructed for the prior nonconforming use.
   (B)   Whenever a nonconforming use of a building or structure or part
thereof, has been discontinued for a period of 12 consecutive months (1 year),
or whenever there is evident a clear intent on the part of the owner to abandon
a nonconforming use, such use shall not after being discontinued or abandoned,
be re-established, and the use of the premises thereafter shall be in
conformity with the regulations of the district.
   (C)   Where no enclosed building is involved, discontinuance of a
nonconforming use for a period of 6 months shall constitute abandonment, and
shall not thereafter be used in a nonconforming manner.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 4.03, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.038 REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   Normal maintenance of a nonconforming building, structure or use is
permitted, including necessary non-structural repairs and incidental
alterations which do not extend or intensify the nonconforming building,
structure, or use.
   (B)   No structural alterations shall be made in a building or other
structure containing a nonconforming building, structure, or use, except in the
following situations:
      (1)   When the alteration is required by law;
      (2)   When the alteration will actually result in eliminating the
nonconforming use; or
      (3)   When a building in a residential district containing residential
nonconforming structure may be altered in any way to improve livability,
provided no structural alterations shall be made which would increase the
number of dwelling units or the bulk of the building.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 4.04, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.039 DAMAGE AND DESTRUCTION.
   (A)   If a nonconforming building or other structure containing a
nonconforming use is damaged or destroyed by any means to the extent of 50% or
more of its current replacement value, the building or other structure can be
rebuilt or used thereafter only for a conforming use and in compliance with the
provisions of the district in which it is located. In the event the damage or
destruction is less than 50% of its replacement value, the building may then be
restored to its original condition and the occupancy or use of such building
may be continued.
   (B)   In either event, restoration or repair of the building or other
structure must be started within a period of 6 months from the date of damage
or destruction and diligently completed.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 4.05, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.040 ADDITIONS AND ENLARGEMENTS.
   (A)   A nonconforming building may be enlarged or extended only if the
entire building is thereafter devoted to a conforming use, and is made to
conform to all regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (B)   No building partially occupied by a nonconforming use shall be altered
in such a way as to permit the enlargement or expansion of the space occupied
by such nonconforming use.
   (C)   No nonconforming use may be enlarged or extended in such a way as to
occupy any required usable open space or any land beyond the boundaries of the
zoning lot as it existed on the effective date of this chapter, or to displace
any conforming use in the same building or on the same parcel.
   (D)   A building or structure which is nonconforming with respect to yards
or any other element of bulk regulated herein shall not be altered or expanded
in any manner which would increase the degree or extent of its nonconformance,
with respect to the bulk regulations of the district in which it is located.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 4.06, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.041 USE DISTRICT CHANGES.
   Whenever the boundaries of a use district shall be changed so as to transfer
an area from one use district to another use district of a different
classification, the foregoing provisions shall also apply to any nonconforming
uses existing therein.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 4.07, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.042 RELOCATION OF A NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE.
   No building or structure shall be moved in whole, or in part, to any other
location on the same or any other lot unless every portion of such building or
structure which is moved, and the use thereof, is made to conform to all of the
regulations of the district in which it is to be located.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 4.08, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.043 ACQUISITION OF NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The village may at any time, and from time to time, by ordinance duly
enacted and in accordance with the authority vested in it by state law:
      (1)   Acquire by purchase, condemnation or otherwise, any buildings or
structures which do not conform to the standards fixed by the village pursuant
to state law, and all land which is necessary or appropriate for the
rehabilitation or redevelopment of any area blighted by substandard buildings
or structures;
      (2)   Remove or demolish all such nonconforming buildings or structures
acquired;
      (3)   Hold and use any remaining property for public purposes; and
      (4)   Sell, lease or exchange such property as is not required for public
purposes, subject to the provisions of this chapter or of any amendment hereto.
   (B)   No such acquisition by condemnation shall be made until such time as
the Planning and Zoning Commission, at the request of the Board of
Commissioners or upon its own initiative, shall have made a study of the area
within which such nonconforming building or structure is located, and shall
have filed a written report on such study with the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 4.09, passed 6-23-2015)
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAPS
§ 151.055 INCLUSION.
   It is the intent of this chapter that the entire area of the village,
including all land and water areas, rivers, streets, alleys, railroads and
other rights-of-way, be included in the districts established by this chapter.
Any area not shown on the Official Zoning Map of the village as being included
in any zoning district shall be deemed to be in the R-1 1-Family Residence
District.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 5.01, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.056 DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Generally. In order to accomplish the purpose of this chapter the
Village of Diamond, Illinois, is hereby divided into the following districts.
   (B)   Districts.
R-1 One-Family Residence District
R-2 Two-Family Residence District
R-3 Townhome Family Residence District
R-4 Multi-Family Residence District
B-1 Retail Business District
B-3 Service Business District
BT  Business Transition District
I-1 Limited Industrial District
I-2 General Industrial District
A-1 Agricultural District
 
(Ord. 2015-08, § 5.02, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.057 MAPS.
   The boundaries of the zoning districts are established as shown on the maps
entitled “Official Zoning Map of Diamond, Illinois,” which map is made a part
hereof, and shall have the same force and effect as if the Zoning Map, together
with all notations, references and other information shown thereon, were fully
set forth and described herein.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 5.03, passed 6-23-2015; Am. Ord. 2016-04, passed 1-12-2016)
§ 151.058 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   District boundary lines are either the center lines of railroads, highways,
streets, alleys or easements, or the boundary lines of sections, quarter-
sections, divisions of sections, tracts or lots, or such lines extended
otherwise indicated.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 5.04, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.059 ZONING OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   All streets, alleys, public ways, waterways and railroad rights-of-way, if
not otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be in the same zone
as the property immediately adjacent to such streets, alleys, public ways and
railroad rights-of-way or waterways. Where the center line of a street, alley,
public way, waterway or railroad right-of-way serves as a district boundary,
the zoning of such areas, unless otherwise specifically designated, shall be
deemed to be the same as that of the adjacent property up to such center line.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 5.05, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.060 ZONING OF ANNEXED LAND.
   Unless otherwise provided for in an annexation agreement, all land which
hereafter may be annexed to the village shall automatically be classified in
the R-1 1-Family Residence District.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 5.06, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.061 ZONING DISTRICT USE TABLE.
Zoning District Use Table
   P = Permitted use
   S = Special use
Zoning District Use Table
   P = Permitted use
   S = Special use
Residential Land Use                          R- R- R- R- B- B-3 BT I-1 I-2 A-1
                                              1  2  3  4  1
Assisted living facility                      -  -  S  S  -  S   S  -   -   -
Boarding house or rooming house               -  -  -  P  -  -   -  -   -   -
Dwelling, 1-family                            P  P  P  -  -  -   P  -   -   P
Dwelling, 2-family                            -  P  P  -  -  -   P  -   -   -
Dwelling, townhome                            -  -  P  P  -  -   -  -   -   -
Dwelling, multi-family                        -  -  P  P  S  S   -  -   -   -
Guest house                                   S  -  -  -  -  -   -  -   -   P
Home occupations                              P  P  P  P  -  -   P  -   -   P
Mobile home park                              -  -  S  -  -  -   -  -   -   -
Commercial Land Use                           R- R- R- R- B- B-3 BT I-1 I-2 A-1
                                              1  2  3  4  1
Adult business use                            -  -  -  -  -  -   -  S   -   -
Agricultural implements sales and services    -  -  -  -  P  P   -  -   -   S
Animal hospital                               -  -  -  -  S  P   S  P   P   S
Art galleries and studios                     -  -  -  -  P  P   P  -   -   -
Auction rooms                                 -  -  -  -  -  P   -  -   -   -
Bakery shops                                  -  -  -  -  P  P   P  P   P   -
Banks and financial institutions              -  -  -  -  P  P   S  S   S   -
Bar, tavern, or pub                           -  -  -  -  P  P   -  S   -   -
Barber shops, beauty salons                   -  -  -  -  P  P   P  -   -   -
Bed-and-breakfast inn                         S  S  S  S  P  P   P  -   -   S
Billiard and pool rooms                       -  -  -  -  P  P   -  -   -   -
Boat showrooms                                -  -  -  -  -  P   -  -   -   -
Car wash, pet wash                            -  -  -  -  -  P   -  S   S   -
Currency exchange                             -  -  -  -  P  P   -  S   S   -
Day care center                               -  -  -  -  P  P   S  S   S   -
Day care home                                 P  P  S  -  -  -   -  -   -   -
Gas and service station                       -  -  -  -  S  P   -  P   P   -
Grocery store                                 -  -  -  -  P  P   -  -   -   -
Hotels and motels                             -  -  -  -  S  P   -  S   -   -
Kennel                                        -  -  -  -  -  S   -  S   S   S
Laundries                                     -  -  -  -  P  P   -  -   -   -
Liquor store                                  -  -  -  -  P  P   -  -   -   -
Massage establishment                         -  -  -  -  S  S   -  -   -   -
Medical cannabis distribution facility        -  -  -  -  -  -   -  S   -   -
Microbreweries/brew pubs, microdistilleries,  -  -  -  -  -  P   S  P   P   -
and micro- wineries 1
Office (business and professional)            -  -  -  -  P  P   P  P   P   -
Open sales lot                                -  -  -  -  S  S   S  -   -   S
Outdoor sales and dining (seasonal)           -  -  -  -  P  P   P  -   -   P
Pawn shops                                    -  -  -  -  -  P   -  -   -   -
Personal services (including but not limited
to daycares, cleaning services, tailors, dry  -  -  -  -  P  P   P  -   -   -
cleaners, and medical services)
Restaurants, eatery, or café (with drive-    -  -  -  -  -  P   S  -   -   -
through)
Restaurants, eatery, or café (without drive- -  -  -  -  P  P   P  S   -   -
through)
Retail stores below 15,000 sq. ft.            -  -  -  -  P  P   P  S   -   -
Retail stores above 15,001 sq. ft.            -  -  -  -  -  P   -  -   -   -
Roadside stand                                -  -  -  -  -  P   -  P   P   P
Theater, indoor                               -  -  -  -  -  P   -  -   -   -
Theater, outdoor drive-in                     -  -  -  -  -  -   -  S   S   -
Vehicle repair (major)                        -  -  -  -  -  P   -  P   P   -
Vehicle sales or rental                       -  -  -  -  -  P   -  -   -   -
Wholesale business                            -  -  -  -  -  P   -  -   -   -
Industrial Land Use                           R- R- R- R- B- B-3 BT I-1 I-2 A-1
                                              1  2  3  4  1
Assembly and construction type plant          -  -  -  -  -  -   -  P   P   -
Automotive wrecking                           -  -  -  -  -  -   -  -   P   -
Cargo container storage area                  -  -  -  -  -  -   -  P   P   -
Construction related business                 -  -  -  -  -  -   -  P   P   -
Distribution center                           -  -  -  -  -  -   -  P   P   -
Garage (bus)                                  -  -  -  -  -  -   -  P   P   -
Industrial park and office                    -  -  -  -  -  -   -  P   P   -
Junk yards or salvage yard                    -  -  -  -  -  -   -  S   S   -
Laboratories or specialized industrial        -  -  -  -  -  -   -  P   P   -
facility
Manufacturing plant                           -  -  -  -  -  -   -  P   P   -
Medical cannabis, cultivation center          -  -  -  -  -  -   -  S   -   -
Mill-type factory structure                   -  -  -  -  -  -   -  -   P   -
Mining or extraction establishment            -  -  -  -  -  -   -  S   S   S
Mini-warehouse                                -  -  -  -  -  -   -  P   P   -
Process plants (including metals, chemicals,  -  -  -  -  -  -   -  -   P   -
and the like)
Recycling plant                               -  -  -  -  -  -   -  -   P   -
Sanitary landfill                             -  -  -  -  -  -   -  -   S   S
Stock yards or slaughterhouse                 -  -  -  -  -  -   -  -   P   -
Truck parking area or yard                    -  -  -  -  -  -   -  S   P   -
Warehouse or storage facility                 -  -  -  -  -  -   -  P   P   S
Agricultural Land Use                         R- R- R- R- B- B-3 BT I-1 I-2 A-1
                                              1  2  3  4  1
Agricultural buildings and structures         -  -  -  -  -  -   -  P   P   P
Greenhouses and nurseries                     -  -  -  -  -  P   -  P   P   S
Milk depots                                   -  -  -  -  -  -   -  -   -   S
Riding academies and horse stables            -  -  -  -  -  -   -  P   P   S
Recreation Land Use                           R- R- R- R- B- B-3 BT I-1 I-2 A-1
                                              1  2  3  4  1
Amusement, sports, or recreation              -  -  -  -  -  P   -  -   -   -
establishment
Active open space (athletic fields, parks,    P  P  P  P  S  S   -  P   P   P
and the like)
Auditorium, stadium, or arena                 -  -  -  -  S  S   -  S   S   -
Bowling alleys                                -  -  -  -  -  P   -  -   -   -
Clubs and lodges, private                     -  -  -  S  -  P   -  -   -   S
Fitness, recreational gym, or athletic club   -  -  -  -  P  P   -  S   -   -
Golf courses                                  S  S  S  S  -  -   -  -   -   S
Passive open space (trails, picnic areas,     P  P  P  P  P  P   P  P   P   P
open land, and the like)
Skating rinks, indoor                         -  -  -  -  -  P   -  -   -   -
Swimming pool (commercial)                    S  S  S  S  S  S   -  S   -   -
Public Land Use                               R- R- R- R- B- B-3 BT I-1 I-2 A-1
                                              1  2  3  4  1
Ambulance service                             -  -  -  -  -  P   -  P   P   -
Animal pounds and shelters                    -  -  -  -  -  S   -  P   P   -
Cemeteries, including crematories and         S  S  S  S  -  -   -  -   S   S
mausoleums
Church, rectory, seminary, mosque, synagogue, P  P  P  P  S  S   -  S   -   S
or similar religious institution 2
Colleges and universities, including          S  S  S  S  -  -   -  -   -   -
dormitories, fraternities and sororities
Fire station                                  S  S  S  S  S  S   -  P   P   -
Funeral parlors, including crematories        -  -  -  S  -  P   -  -   -   -
Hospitals and sanitariums                     -  -  -  -  S  S   -  -   -   -
Library                                       -  -  S  S  S  S   S  -   -   -
Meeting halls                                 -  -  -  -  -  P   -  -   -   -
Philanthropic institutions                    -  -  -  S  -  P   S  P   P   -
Police station                                S  S  S  S  S  S   -  P   P   -
School, nursery, public or private            S  S  S  S  -  P   -  -   -   -
School, private                               P  P  P  P  S  S   -  -   -   S
School, public                                P  P  P  P  S  S   -  -   -   S
Trade schools                                 -  -  -  -  -  P   -  P   P   -
Transportation/Utility Land Use               R- R- R- R- B- B-3 BT I-1 I-2 A-1
                                              1  2  3  4  1
Airports and aircraft landing fields          S  S  S  S  -  -   -  S   S   S
Electrical central station, power and steam   -  -  -  -  -  -   -  -   P   -
generating plants
Off-street parking (non-accessory)            -  -  -  -  S  P   S  P   P   -
Public utilities (water filtration plants,
water pumping stations, water reservoir,
sewage treatment, land fill, telephone        S  S  S  S  S  P   -  P   P   S
exchanges, electric substations, and similar
uses
Radio and television stations and towers      S  S  S  S  P  P   -  P   P   S
Railroad rights-of-way and trackage           S  S  S  S  S  S   -  P   P   S
Transportation terminal                       -  -  -  -  S  S   -  P   P   -
Other Land Use                                R- R- R- R- B- B-3 BT I-1 I-2 A-1
                                              1  2  3  4  1
Accessory use                                 P  P  P  P  P  P   P  P   P   P
Advertising display                           -  -  -  -  -  -   -  P   P   -
Planned development (PUD)                     S  S  S  S  S  S   S  S   S   S
1   Outdoor storage of equipment, production waste or product for
microbreweries, microdistilleries and microwineries is strictly prohibited when
located in a business district. However, outdoor storage of spent grains or
grapes may be permitted to be stored outdoors in appropriate silos or
containers in the manufacturing districts, provided the storage is screened
from public view. Screening may be with fencing, landscaping or a combination
of both.
   Microdistilleries or microwineries located in business districts must
include an ancillary tasting room with a minimum of 150 square feet. Retail
sales of the product from a microdistillery or microwinery are permitted on
site and shall be consistent with state and local laws.
   Microbreweries/brew pubs, where if off-premise consumption is allowed, all
sales must be in capped/sealed containers. Microbrewery/brew pub operations in
a business district must be ancillary to a restaurant, and the brewing
component of the facility shall not be more than 25% of the total floor area.
2   Any religious institution with an assembly area with a seating capacity
greater than 200 people shall be considered a special use regardless of the
district.
 
(Ord. 2015-08, § 6.00, passed 6-23-2015)
RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
§ 151.075 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The residence districts are provided to support and complement the Village
Comprehensive Plan. Residence district requirements are further established to
govern location, intensity and method of development of residential areas in
the village and to provide for and encourage construction of a full range of
residential developments on land topographically and locationally suited for
residential purposes. The regulations for each district are designed to provide
protection to existing developments while allowing new construction in
accordance with current design standards and density objectives.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 7.00, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.076 R-1 1-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The R-1 District is established to provide areas well suited
as to location and topography, to meet the market demands for single-family
housing, and to prohibit any uses which are incompatible.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses in the R-1 District are listed in §
151.061, Zoning district use table.
   (C)   Special uses. Special uses in the R-1 District are listed in §
151.061, Zoning district use table, in accordance with the provisions of §§
151.200 -
151.211, Administration.
   (D)   Bulk regulations. Bulk regulations in the R-1 District including
regulations regarding lot area, lot width, yard areas, lot coverage, and
building height are listed in §
151.080, Residence district bulk regulations.
   (E)   Signs. Signs shall be permitted as allowed in §§
151.150 -
151.161, Signs.
   (F)   Off-street parking and loading. Automobiles parking facilities shall
be provided as required or permitted in §§
151.175 -
151.185, Off-Street Parking and Loading.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 7.01, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.077 R-2 2-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The R-2 District is established to provide areas of a higher
density than the R-1 zones, but of a similar urban character where community
water and sewer facilities are available.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses in the R-2 District are listed in §
151.061, Zoning district use table.
   (C)   Special uses. Special uses in the R-2 District are listed in §
151.061, Zoning district use table, in accordance with the provisions of §§
151.200 -
151.211, Administration.
   (D)   Bulk regulations. Bulk regulations in the R-2 District including
regulations regarding lot area, lot width, yard areas, lot coverage, and
building height are listed in §
151.080, Residence district bulk regulations.
   (E)   Signs. Signs shall be permitted as allowed in §§
151.150 -
151.161, Signs.
   (F)   Off-street parking and loading. Automobiles parking facilities shall
be provided as required or permitted in §§
151.175 -
151.185, Off-Street Parking and Loading.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 7.02, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.078 R-3 TOWNHOME RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The R-3 District is intended to provide for varied dwelling
types of medium density in locations where it may serve as a transitional use
between moderate density residential developments or commercial uses and more
intensive residential and/or commercial or industrial uses, or in developing
areas where convenient access to the major street systems and community
services are available.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses in the R-3 District are listed in §
151.061, Zoning district use table.
   (C)   Special uses. Special uses in the R-3 District are listed in §
151.061, Zoning district use table, in accordance with the provisions of §§
151.200 -
151.211, Administration.
   (D)   Bulk regulations. Bulk regulations in the R-3 District including
regulations regarding lot area, lot width, yard areas, lot coverage, and
building height are listed in §
151.080, Residence district bulk regulations.
   (E)   Signs. Signs shall be permitted as allowed in §§
151.150 -
151.161, Signs.
   (F)   Off-street parking and loading. Automobiles parking facilities shall
be provided as required or permitted in §§
151.175 -
151.185, Off-Street Parking and Loading.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 7.03, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.079 R-4 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The R-4 District is established as a residence district to
provide for a wider variety of dwelling accommodations with a higher density of
dwelling units; to provide for multiple-family dwellings with adequate open
space; and to provide for a transition between non-residential areas and
single-family areas of lower density.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses in the R-4 District are listed in §
151.061, Zoning district use table.
   (C)   Special uses. Special uses in the R-4 District are listed in §
151.061, Zoning district use table, in accordance with the provisions of §§
151.200 -
151.211, Administration.
   (D)   Bulk regulations. Bulk regulations in the R-4 District including
regulations regarding lot area, lot width, yard areas, lot coverage, and
building height are listed in §
151.080, Residence district bulk regulations.
   (E)   Signs. Signs shall be permitted as allowed in §§
151.150 -
151.161, Signs.
   (F)   Off-street parking and loading. Automobiles parking facilities shall
be provided as required or permitted in §§
151.175 -
151.185, Off-Street Parking and Loading.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 7.04, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.080 RESIDENCE DISTRICT BULK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   R-1 1-Family Residence District.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1916.jpg]
 
   (B)   R-2 2-Family Residence District.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1918.jpg]
 
 
            Minimum             Minimum Minimum   Minimum   Maximum  Maximum
            Lot Area  Minimum   Front   Side Yard Rear Yard Lot      Building
            (sq. ft.) Lot Width Yard    Setback   Setback   Coverage Height
                                Setback
One-family                              6 ft./ 15
detached    6,000     50 ft.            ft. 1
dwelling
Two-family  11,250    90 ft.
dwelling*                       30 ft.            30 ft.    35%      30 ft.
Non-                                    7.5 ft./
residential 10,000    75 ft.            15 ft. 1
uses
Special     10,000    -
uses
1 Second number denotes minimum setback if adjacent to a street
* Shown in graphic
 
   (C)   R-3 Townhome Residence District.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1922.jpg]
 
 
            Minimum             Minimum Minimum    Minimum   Maximum  Maximum
            Lot Area  Minimum   Front   Side Yard  Rear Yard Lot      Building
            (sq. ft.) Lot Width Yard    Setback    Setback   Coverage Height
                                Setback
One-family
detached    6,000     50 ft.
dwelling
Two-family  11,250    60 ft.
dwelling
Three- to                               10 ft./ 25
6-family    18,000    100 ft.   25 ft.  ft. 1      30 ft.    -        30 ft.
dwelling*
Non-
residential 10,000    75 ft.
uses
Special     10,000    -
uses
1 Second number denotes minimum setback if adjacent to a street
* Shown in graphic
 
   (D)   R-4 Multi-Family Residence District.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1924.jpg]
 
      (1)   Generally.
 Minimum Lot Minimum Lot Minimum    Minimum   Minimum Rear Maximum Lot Maximum
 Area (sq.   Width       Front Yard Side Yard Yard Setback Coverage    Building
 ft.)                    Setback    Setback                            Height
            Minimum             Minimum  Minimum    Minimum   Maximum  Maximum
            Lot Area  Minimum   Front    Side Yard  Rear Yard Lot      Building
            (sq. ft.) Lot Width Yard     Setback    Setback   Coverage Height
                                Setback
Three- or                                10 ft./ 25
more family 7,500 2   60 ft.             ft. 1
dwellings*
Non-                            25 ft. 3 10 ft./ 25 30 ft.    35%      45 ft.
residential 6,000     60 ft.             ft. 1
uses
Special     6,000     -                  10 ft./ 25
uses                                     ft. 1
1 Second number denotes minimum setback if adjacent to a street
2 Minimum lot area per dwelling unit for:
   One-bedroom or efficiency apartments - 2,000 square feet
   Two-bedroom apartments - 3,000 square feet
   Three-bedroom or more apartments - 4,000 square feet
3 Plus 1 additional foot for each 2 feet over 30 feet in building height
* Shown in graphic
 
      (2)   Reversed corner lots. For reversed corner lots there shall be
maintained a setback from the side street of not less than 50% of the front
yard required on the lots in the rear of such corner lots, but such setbacks
need not exceed 25 feet. No accessory building on said reversed corner lot
shall project beyond the front yard required on the adjacent lot to the rear,
nor be located nearer than 10 feet to the side lot line of said adjacent lot.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 7.05, passed 6-23-2015)
BUSINESS DISTRICTS
§ 151.090 B-1 RETAIL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The B-1 District is established to provide areas for a wide
range of retail stores and personal service establishments which are desirable
to provide for both day-to-day and occasional shopping needs.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses in the B-1 District are listed in §
151.061, Zoning district use table.
   (C)   Special uses. Special uses in the B-1 District are listed in §
151.061, Zoning district use table, in accordance with the provisions of §§
151.200 -
151.211, Administration.
   (D)   Conditions of use. All uses permitted in this district, shall be
retail and service establishments dealing directly with consumers and shall be
subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Outdoor sales and dining (seasonal) shall be permitted, provided
that a plan is submitted and approved by the Zoning Administrator indicating:
         (a)   Where on the property the sales or dining will occur;
         (b)   The size and approximate dimensions of the area to be used for
sales/dining;
         (c)   For outdoor dining, provisions for fencing, lighting, and other
appropriate controls as determined by the Zoning Administrator; and
         (d)   The duration of the proposed outdoor sales or dining.
      (2)   Establishments of the “drive-in” type, offering goods or services
directly to customers waiting in parked motor vehicles, are not permitted.
      (3)   There shall be no manufacture, processing or treatment of products
other than that which is clearly incidental and essential to the retail
business conducted on the same premises.
      (4)   Such uses, operations or products shall not be objectionable due to
odor, dust, smoke, noise, vibration or other similar causes.
      (5)   Any exterior sign displayed shall pertain only to a use conducted
within the building.
   (E)   Bulk regulations. Bulk regulations in the B-1 District including
regulations regarding lot area, lot width, lot depth, yard areas, and lot
coverage are listed in §
151.093, Business district bulk regulations.
   (F)   Signs. Signs shall be permitted as allowed in §§
151.150 -
151.161, Signs.
   (G)   Off-street parking and loading. Automobile parking facilities shall be
provided as required or permitted in §§
151.175 -
151.185, Off-Street Parking and Loading.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 8.01, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.091 B-3 SERVICE BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The B-3 District is established primarily to furnish areas
for a wide variety of necessary services, wholesale establishments, and other
business uses which would be incompatible with the uses permitted in the B-
1 District.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses in the B-3 District are listed in §
151.061, Zoning district use table.
   (C)   Special uses. Special uses in the B-3 District are listed in §
151.061, Zoning district use table, in accordance with the provisions of §§
151.200 -
151.211, Administration.
   (D)   Bulk regulations. Bulk regulations in the B-3 District including
regulations regarding lot area, lot width, lot depth, yard areas, and lot
coverage are listed in §
151.093, Business district bulk regulations.
   (E)   Signs. Signs shall be as permitted in §§
151.150 -
151.161, Signs.
   (F)   Off-street parking and loading. Parking and loading facilities shall
be provided as required or permitted in §§
151.175 -
151.185, Off-Street Parking and Loading.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 8.02, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.092 BT BUSINESS TRANSITION DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. This district is intended to provide opportunities for the
preservation of residential structures and neighborhood character while
permitting conversion to a limited range of commercial uses in properties
located along arterial streets.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses in the BT District are listed in §
151.061, Zoning district use table.
   (C)   Special uses. Special uses in the BT District are listed in §
151.061, Zoning district use table, in accordance with the provisions of §§
151.200 -
151.211, Administration.
   (D)   Conditions of use. The following regulations must be followed when
developing within the BT District:
      (1)   Impact mitigation. The property must be capable of supporting the
proposed use in a fashion that limits negative impacts on adjacent residential
uses. Sensitive site design, screening, or landscaping will be required to
mitigate such negative impacts;
      (2)   Preservation of significant structures. Wherever possible, the
redevelopment of the lot should not result in demolition of the principal
structure. Rehabilitation, restoration, or minor remodeling of the existing
structure is encouraged;
      (3)   Preservation of significant features. Alterations should not
obscure, remove, or modify features that contribute to the historic nature of
the building or neighborhood; and
      (4)   Context. New or remodeled buildings must be designed to be
residentially scaled and in character with the neighborhood.
   (E)   Bulk regulations. Bulk regulations in the BT District including
regulations regarding lot area, lot width, lot depth, yard areas, and lot
coverage are listed in §
151.093, Business district bulk regulations.
   (F)   Signs. Signs shall be as permitted in §§
151.150 -
151.161, Signs.
   (G)   Off-street parking. Parking and loading facilities shall be provided
as required or permitted in §§
151.175 -
151.185, Off-Street Parking and Loading.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 8.03, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.093 BUSINESS DISTRICT BULK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   B-1 Retail Business District; B-3 Service Business District.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1930.jpg]
 
 
          Minimum   Minimum   Minimum   Minimum    Minimum   Minimum   Maximu m
District  Lot Area  Lot Width Lot Depth Front Yard Side Yard Rear Yard Building
          (sq. ft.)                     Setback    Setback   Setback   Height
B-
1 Retail  -         -         -         20 ft. 1   10 ft. 2, 20 ft. 4  45 ft.
Business                                           3
District
B-
3 Service -         -         -         20 ft. 1   10 ft. 2, 20 ft. 4  45 ft.
Business                                           3
District
1   Where lots front on the street and at least 80% of the frontage directly
across the street between 2 consecutive intersecting streets is in a residence
district, the front yard regulations for the residence districts shall apply to
the said lots in the business district.
2   Where the extension of a front or side lot line coincides with the front
line of an adjacent lot located in a residence district, a yard of not less
than 10 feet shall be provided.
3   Where a side lot line coincides with a side or rear lot line of property in
an adjacent residential district, the side yard shall be equal in dimensions to
the minimum side yard which would be required under this chapter for a
residential use on the adjacent property in the residence district.
4   Where a rear lot line coincides with a side lot line of property in an
adjacent residential district, the rear yard shall be equal in dimension to the
minimum side yard which would be required under this chapter for a residential
use on the adjacent property in the residence district.
 
   (B)   BT Transition Business District.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1928.jpg]
 
 
           Minimum                       Minimum Minimum   Minimum   Maximu m
District   Lot Area  Minimum   Minimum   Front   Side Yard Rear Yard Building
           (sq. ft.) Lot Width Lot Depth Yard    Setback   Setback   Height
                                         Setback
BT
Transition -         -         -         30 ft.  15 ft.    30 ft.    35 ft.
Business
District
1   Where lots front on the street and at least 80% of the frontage directly
across the street between 2 consecutive intersecting streets is in a
residence district, the front yard regulations for the residence districts
shall apply to the said lots in the business district.
2   Where the extension of a front or side lot line coincides with the front
line of an adjacent lot located in a residence district, a yard of not less
than 10 feet shall be provided.
3   Where a side lot line coincides with a side or rear lot line of property
in an adjacent residential district, the side yard shall be equal in
dimensions to the minimum side yard which would be required under this
chapter for a residential use on the adjacent property in the residence
district.
4   Where a rear lot line coincides with a side lot line of property in an
adjacent residential district, the rear yard shall be equal in dimension to
the minimum side yard which would be required under this chapter for a
residential use on the adjacent property in the residence district.
 
(Ord. 2015-08, § 10.02, passed 6-23-2015)
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
§ 151.105 I-1 LIMITED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The I-1 District is established to provide areas for
industrial use whose operations are of a high performance standard; to provide
regulations to assure adequate open space between industrial uses and the I-
1 District boundaries and adjacent residential areas.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses in the I-1 District are listed in §
151.061, Zoning district use table.
   (C)   Special uses. Special uses in the I-1 District are listed in §
151.061, Zoning district use table, in accordance with the provisions of §§
151.200 -
151.211, Administration.
   (D)   Conditions of use. All permitted uses are subject to the following
conditions:
      (1)   All business, production, servicing, processing shall take place
within completely enclosed buildings unless otherwise specified. Within 150
feet of a residence district, all storage shall be in completely enclosed
buildings or structures, and storage located elsewhere in this district may be
open to the sky but shall be enclosed by solid walls or fences (including solid
doors or gates thereto) at least 6 feet high, but in no case lower in height
than the enclosed storage and suitably landscaped; and
      (2)   Uses established on the effective date of this chapter and by its
provisions rendered nonconforming shall be permitted to continue, subject to
the regulations of §§
151.035 -
151.043, Nonconforming Buildings and Uses.
   (E)   Bulk regulations. Bulk regulations in the I-1 District including
regulations regarding yard areas and lot coverage are listed in §
151.107, Industrial district bulk regulations.
   (F)   Signs. Signs shall be as permitted in §§
151.150 -
151.161, Signs.
   (G)   Off-street parking and loading. Parking and loading facilities shall
be provided as required or permitted in §§
151.175 -
151.185, Off-Street Parking and Loading.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 9.01, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.106 I-2 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The I-2 District is established to provide areas in which a
wide variety of intensive industrial concerns may be located.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses in the I-2 District are listed in §
151.061, Zoning district use table.
   (C)   Special uses. Special uses in the I-2 District are listed in §
151.061, Zoning district use table, in accordance with the provisions of §§
151.200 -
151.211, Administration.
   (D)   Conditions of use. Permitted uses are subject to the following
conditions:
      (1)   All production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, repair or
storage of goods, materials or products shall not be hazardous or detrimental
to nearby property, or adversely affect the health or safety of the occupants
thereof, by reason of the emission of odor, dust, gas, fumes, smoke, noise,
vibration or waste material; and
      (2)   Within 100 feet of a residence district, production, processing,
servicing, and fabrication shall take place or be within completely enclosed
buildings or structures unless otherwise specified. All exterior storage within
150 feet of a residence district shall be enclosed with a solid wall or fence
to a height of such stored materials. Off-street parking and off-street loading
facilities may be enclosed except for such screening and improvements as may be
required under the provisions of §§
151.175 -
151.185, Off-Street Parking and Loading.
   (E)   Bulk regulations. Bulk regulations in the I-2 District including
regulations regarding yard areas and lot coverage are listed in §
151.107, Industrial district bulk regulations.
   (F)   Signs. Signs shall be as permitted in §§
151.150 -
151.161, Signs.
   (G)   Off-street parking and loading. Parking and loading facilities shall
be provided as required or permitted in §§
151.175 -
151.185, Off-Street Parking and Loading.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 9.02, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.107 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT BULK REGULATIONS.
   I-1 Limited Industrial District
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1939.jpg]
 
   I-2 General Industrial District
 
District    Minimum Front Yard Minimum Side Yard Minimum Rear Yard Maximum Lot
            Setback            Setback           Setback           Coverage
I-1 Limited                    5 ft. or 10% of
Industrial  30 ft.1, 3         lot width2        30 ft.3           60%
District
I-2 General                    5 ft. or 10% of
Industrial  30 ft.1, 3         lot width2        30 ft.3           -
District
1   Where lots within the same block and comprising 40% of the frontage on the
same street are already developed on the effective date of this chapter with
front yards with an average depth of less than 30 feet, then such average
depth shall be the required front yard depth for such frontage in said block.
2   Side yard does not need to exceed 20 feet.
3   Setback shall be increased to a minimum of 50 feet if adjacent to a
residence district.
 
(Ord. 2015-08, § 9.03, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.108 ADULT USE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. In the development and execution of these sections regulating
the location of adult business uses, based upon experiences and studies
prepared in various communities, it is recognized that adult business uses, by
virtue of their nature, have serious objectionable operational characteristics
which can have a deleterious effect upon areas adjacent to them. Special
regulation of these uses is necessary to insure that these adverse effects will
not contribute to the blighting or downgrading of the surrounding neighborhood.
The primary purpose of these regulations is to control the concentration or
location of these uses to the fullest extent allowable by law, in order to
eliminate such adverse effects. It is not the intent of these sections to deny
adults access to sexually oriented materials and services or the providers of
such materials and services their market in a manner that is inconsistent with
the law.
   (B)   Restrictions on the location of adult business uses.
      (1)   No adult business use shall be maintained:
         (a)   Within 1,000 feet of the property line of another adult business
use;
         (b)   Within 1,000 feet of any of the residential or agricultural
zoning districts as provided for under this chapter; or
         (c)   Within 1,000 feet of a single-family dwelling, church or other
place of worship, child care center, nursing home, independent or assisted
living care facility, school, library, park, forest preserve, open space, or
other publicly operated recreational facility.
      (2)   The distances provided for in this section shall be measured by
following a straight line, without regard to intervening structures, from a
point on the property or the land use district boundary line from which the
proposed use is to be separated.
   (C)   Restrictions on operation.
      (1)   No adult use shall be conducted in any manner that permits the
observation of any material depicting, describing or relating to “specified
anatomical area” or “specified sexual activities” from any public way. This
shall apply to any display, decoration, sign, show window or other opening. No
person shall operate or cause to be operated an adult use within any premises
wherein alcoholic beverages are served, sold or consumed.
      (2)   No person under the age of 21 shall be allowed on the premises.
      (3)   All VIEWING AREAS, which shall be defined as the area where a
patron or customer would ordinarily be positioned while watching a film or
viewing device, shall be visible from a continuous main aisle or public room
and shall not be obscured by any curtain, door, wall or other enclosure.
      (4)   There shall be no aperture whatsoever in any wall or partition
between viewing areas.
      (5)   Each viewing area shall be lighted at a minimum level of 10 foot-
candles in all parts thereof.
      (6)   Within an establishment selling or renting books, magazines, or
films to the general public, a non-substantial section may display, rent or
offer for sale items distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas” with the following restrictions:
         (a)   The area shall be set aside, blocked off or of limited access to
adults only, with clearly marked signs indicating that this area contains
adult-only items;
         (b)   The area shall be arranged in such manner that the display is
not visible to the general public; and
         (c)   There shall be suitable measures installed to ensure that adults
only have access.
      (7)   Except in connection with the service of beverages or receiving
payment for such beverages, no establishment shall allow an employee to have
physical contact with a patron or allow an employee’s person to be within 10
feet of any patron.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 9.04, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.109 MEDICAL CANNABIS FACILITY CONDITIONS.
   In addition to the other special use permit standards, distribution
facilities – medical cannabis shall meet the specific standards listed below:
   (A)   Medical cannabis cultivation center.
      (1)   Medical cannabis cultivation centers located within the village
shall be and are required to be established, operated, and maintained in full
compliance with the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act
(hereinafter, the “Compassionate Use Act”) and all other applicable village
ordinances and state statutes.
      (2)   Medical cannabis cultivation centers shall not be located within a
specified distance of pre-existing public or private pre-schools, elementary
schools, secondary schools, day care centers, home day care, group day care
homes, part day child care facilities, or an area zoned for residential use as
and to the extent provided by the Compassionate Use Act and all other
applicable state statutes.
      (3)   Medical cannabis cultivation centers shall not be located in any
building containing, in whole or in part, residential uses or any building
which is zoned for residential uses.
      (4)   Drive-through facilities accessory to such medical cannabis
cultivation centers shall not be permitted.
      (5)   Outdoor, window, or on-site media displays of merchandise and/or
products related to a medical cannabis cultivation center shall not be
permitted.
      (6)   All exterior signage associated with a medical cannabis cultivation
center shall be in compliance with §§
151.150 -
151.161, Signs, of this chapter. In addition, no exterior signage, including
window treatments over 8-1/2 inches by 11 inches in size, shall use the word
“marijuana,” “cannabis,” or any other word, phrase or symbol commonly
understood to refer to marijuana or cannabis.
      (7)   All operations of a medical cannabis cultivation center must be
fully enclosed within a locked building which includes an intrusion detection
system and a 24-hour surveillance system.
   (B)   Medical cannabis dispensing organization.
      (1)   Medical cannabis dispensing organizations located within the
village shall be and are required to be established, operated, and maintained
in full compliance with the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program
Act (hereinafter, “the Compassionate Use Act”) and all other applicable village
ordinances and state statutes.
      (2)   Medical cannabis dispensing organizations shall not be located
within a specified distance of pre-existing public or private pre-schools,
elementary schools, secondary schools, day care centers, home day care, group
day care homes, part day child care facilities, or an area zoned for
residential use as and to the extent provided by the Compassionate Use Act and
all other applicable state statutes.
      (3)   Medical cannabis dispensing organizations shall not be located in
any building containing, in whole or in part, residential uses or any building
which is zoned for residential uses.
      (4)   Drive-through facilities accessory to such medical cannabis
dispensing organizations shall not be permitted.
      (5)   Outdoor, window, or on-site media displays of merchandise and/or
products related to a medical cannabis dispensing organization shall not be
permitted.
      (6)   All exterior signage associated with a medical cannabis dispensing
organization shall be in compliance with §§
151.150 -
151.161, Signs, of this chapter. In addition, no exterior signage, including
window treatments over 8-1/2 inches by 11 inches in size, shall use the word
“marijuana,” “cannabis,” or any other word, phrase or symbol commonly
understood to refer to marijuana or cannabis.
      (7)   All operations of a medical cannabis dispensing organization must
be fully enclosed within a locked building which includes an intrusion
detection system and a 24-hour surveillance system.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 9.05, passed 6-23-2015)
AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
§ 151.120 A-1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The A-1 District is established to provide areas in which
agriculture and certain related uses are encouraged as the principal use of
land.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses in the A-1 District are listed in §
151.061, Zoning district use table.
   (C)   Special uses. Special uses in the A-1 District are listed in §
151.061, Zoning district use table, in accordance with the provisions of §§
151.200 -
151.211, Administration.
   (D)   Bulk regulations. Bulk regulations in the A-1 District including
regulations regarding lots areas, lot widths, right-of-way setbacks, and
building height are listed in §
151.121, Agricultural District bulk regulations.
   (E)   Signs. Signs shall be as permitted in §§
151.150 -
151.161, Signs.
   (F)   Off-street parking and loading. Parking and loading facilities shall
be provided as required or permitted in §§
151.175 -
151.185, Off-Street Parking and Loading.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 10.01, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.121 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT BULK REGULATIONS.
 
                                             Right-of-Way
District        Minimum Lot Area Minimum Lot Setback (includes Maximum Building
                (sq. ft.)        Width       public street,    Height
                                             road, or highway)
One-family
detached        130,000          200 ft.     50 ft.            30 ft.
dwelling
Non-residential 87,000           150 ft.     50 ft.            30 ft.
uses
Special uses    20,000           100 ft.     50 ft.            30 ft.
 
(Ord. 2015-08, § 10.02, passed 6-23-2015)
ARCHITECTURAL AND LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.135 EXTERIOR CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS FOR COMMERCIAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Purpose. The minimum commercial architectural standards established in
this section are designed to increase the structural integrity and fire
resistance of such buildings and structures, to enhance the aesthetic value of
such buildings and structures, and to promote property values within the
village.
   (B)   Applicability. New and existing commercial structures, additions,
alterations, reconstructions and replacements of existing structures. The
standards and requirements set forth below shall apply to all new buildings and
structures constructed within the village for which building permits are
required, provided, however, that alterations or additions to buildings or
structures in existence as of February 14, 2006 and located in commercial or
industrial zoning districts of the village shall be constructed with exterior
finishes that are architecturally consistent with the presently existing
portions thereof, except that if any such building or structure is wholly
destroyed by fire or other casualty, or is damaged to an extent greater than
50% of the replacement value. No building permit shall be issued, or, if issued
inadvertently, shall be valid or effective, unless the plans and other
submittals included with the application therefor demonstrate compliance with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Requirements.
      (1)   Commercial buildings or structures. Commercial buildings or
structures located in any commercial zoning district within the village and
which are the primary building or structure on a given lot shall be constructed
with exterior finishes consisting of stone material, brick material, concrete
masonry units, concrete panel construction, glass walls or composite material
covering 100% of the aggregate total area of all exterior walls, exclusive of
doors, windows, and associated trim. All chimneys constructed on any such
building or structure shall have exterior finishes consisting exclusively of
stone material or brick material from grade level to the caps thereof, where
such chimneys are located on an exterior wall of any such building or structure
from grade level to the top of such chimney, but any such chimney located
within the interior of such building or structure and having exposed exterior
surfaces located only above the lowest part of the roof of such building or
structure shall not be required to be constructed exclusively of stone or brick
material as aforesaid, but shall instead be required to be surfaced with
materials that are architecturally compatible and harmonious with the overall
design of such building or structure. All permitted accessory buildings or
structures located in any commercial zoning district within the village shall
also comply with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Industrial buildings and structures. Industrial buildings and
structures located in any industrial zoning district within the village,
including any permitted accessory structures shall be constructed with exterior
finishes consisting of any of the exterior finishes defined in division (C)(1)
above (commercial building architectural standards), exclusive of doors,
windows and associated trim.
      (3)   Agricultural buildings and structures. Agricultural buildings and
structures located in any agricultural zoning district within the village,
including any permitted accessory structures, shall be exempt from the
provisions of this chapter.
      (4)   Governmental buildings and structures. Governmental buildings and
structures which are owned, occupied, leased or constructed by any unit of
government and located in any zoning district within the village shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
      (5)   Institutional buildings and structures. Institutional buildings and
structures located in any zoning district shall comply with architectural
standards for commercial construction detailed in division (C)(1) above.
      (6)   Amusement, sports or recreation auditoriums, stadiums or arena
buildings or structures of 65,000 square feet or larger. Amusement, sports or
recreation auditoriums, stadiums or arena buildings and structures of 65,000
square feet or larger shall be exempt from the architectural standards for
commercial construction detailed in division (C)(1) above provided the
following requirements are met:
         (a)   The building or structure is a clear span design;
         (b)   The building or structure shall be constructed with exterior
components consisting of architectural steel and aluminum panels or metal
composite material panels (subject to approval of the Site Plan Review
Committee, front elevations may be constructed with decorative materials other
than those specified in this section);
         (c)   Wall panels shall be corrugated or flush;
         (d)    Fastener systems shall be concealed; and
         (e)   Exterior finish shall be baked on enamel painted to the
manufacturer’s standards.
   (D)   Review and approval.
      (1)   New commercial and industrial construction shall be approved
through the site plan review process detailed in §
151.210.
      (2)   Variations from these standards may be granted by the village if
procedures in accordance with the provisions of §
151.206, Variations, are followed.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 11.01, passed 6-23-2015; Am. Ord. 2019-07, passed 3-26-2019)
§ 151.136 EXTERIOR STANDARDS FOR NEW RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Purpose. The minimum residential architectural standards established
in this section are designed to provide a higher level of protection against
wind and hail damage, increased fire resistance, and to enhance the aesthetic
value of such buildings and structures, and to promote property values within
the village.
   (B)   Enforcement. No occupancy permit shall be issued for any residential
building unless and until the provisions of this chapter and all other relative
ordinances are complied with.
   (C)   Requirements.
      (1)   For all residential subdivisions, the final subdivision plat for
which are approved by the village after the 2nd day of March, 2007, the front
elevation of all 1-family dwellings, 2-family residential structures, and
townhomes shall be constructed with 50% of the front elevation comprised of
masonry material from the ground level (the building foundation) to the
building’s eaves (excluding gables, dormers, openings for windows and doors).
For 2-family and townhome structures, the masonry material and roofing shall be
consistent (i.e., same brick type/color for each unit within a building).
      (2)   For all multi-family residential structures, for which a building
permit is issued after the effective date of this chapter, shall be constructed
with 100% masonry material from the ground level
(the building foundation) to the building’s eaves (excluding gables, dormers,
openings for windows and doors) on all elevations.
   (D)   Variation. Residential buildings or structures which demonstrate
exceptional architectural merit and an intention to reflect the rural character
of the village may, upon an application for a variation made to the Planning
and Zoning Commission, be granted a variance from the provisions of this
chapter requiring the use of particular materials for exterior finishes to
allow the use of different materials or to allow the use of a different
percentage or proportion of the materials otherwise required in the exterior
finish of such a structure. The application for variation shall be reviewed in
accordance with §
151.206, Variations, of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 11.02, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.137 LANDSCAPE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to require the appropriate
buffering between land uses to protect and preserve the aesthetic appeal and
character of the surrounding neighborhood and to provide a level of visual
screening around permanent structures and parking facilities. Landscape
provisions are also designed to enhance the overall visual character of the
community as viewed from major roadways.
   (B)   Applicability. All new site developments, expansion of existing
structures or reconstruction of structures shall conform to the following
landscape provisions. Review of landscape plans shall typically occur during
site plan review (see §
151.210).
   (C)   Requirements.
      (1)   Preservation of natural resources. The site design shall minimize
disruption of existing natural features, and wherever possible integrate them
into the overall design. The following areas should be preserved as open space
or shall be appropriately mitigated:
         (a)   Wetlands as regulated by the Army Corps of Engineers;
         (b)   Areas falling within a designated floodplain or floodway; and
         (c)   Significant trees that measure 10 inches or larger in diameter
measured 4-1/2 feet above grade.
      (2)   Buffers. Landscape buffers shall be provided between adjacent uses
and along major roadways as follows.
         (a)   Buffer between uses. Landscape buffers shall be required for all
commercial, office, industrial and multi-family sites that abut single-family
use through the use of landscape berms, plantings
and/or fencing to achieve 100% screening year-round. Any berm shall be a
physical barrier that blocks or screens the view similar to a hedge, fence or
wall. Berms shall be constructed with proper and adequate plant material to
prevent erosion.
         (b)   Buffer along major roadways. For the purpose of improving the
safety, appearance and environment of the village, a landscape setback shall be
provided and maintained along major roadways.
            1.   Landscape buffers shall be required as follows: Along Route
113: 20 feet east of Will Road and 10 feet west of Will Road; and
            2.   Where a greater setback is required by the zoning district
regulations, or a planned development, the greater setback requirement shall
apply.
            3.   The landscape setback shall comply with the following:
               a.   Except as otherwise provided, no parking or accessory
buildings shall be permitted within the landscape setback area. Permitted signs
and fencing are allowed within the landscape setback;
               b.   The setback shall be devoted entirely to landscape areas
except for sidewalks and necessary paving of driveways to reach the building
and parking areas provided such driveways are generally perpendicular to the
front lot line; and
               c.   The groundcover of the landscape area shall contain at
least 75% live landscaping of which at least 25% consists of shrubs, trees,
flowering plants, or other plant materials over 12 inches in height.
         (c)   Street tree planting. Street trees are allowed to be planted
within the right-of-way of State Route 113 (subject to IDOT approval). Such
planting shall occur in conjunction with development of the property along the
subject street frontage. The spacing of street trees shall be no less than 40
feet between plantings. Trees shall be planted a minimum of 4 feet from all
curbs and sidewalks. No street tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet to any
street corner, measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curb
lines. No street tree shall be planted closer than 10 feet to any fire hydrant.
The Zoning Administrator may allow minor deviations in these requirements to
accommodate unique site conditions.
         (d)   Site landscape standards. The following requirements shall apply
to all commercial, manufacturing and multi-family development and are
cumulative:
            1.   Multi-family. The applicant shall provide a minimum of 1
approved tree for each 1,000 square feet of landscape space.
            2.   Commercial and manufacturing.
               a.   The applicant shall provide a minimum of 1 approved tree
for each 600 square feet of landscape space.
               b.   All required setback areas and areas of a site not proposed
to be improved with structures, paved areas, walks or other approved
landscaping shall be planted in grass sod or seed unless otherwise approved by
the Site Plan Review Committee.
               c.   All parking lot areas shall be screened from view of
adjacent properties and streets by approved trees that will attain a minimum
height of 3 feet within 3 years or provide for a 3-foot undulating berm or low
wall/fence.
               d.   Commercial and office developments shall incorporate
required landscape islands that will correspond to an area of 1 parking space
for every 7 actual parking spaces exclusive of required buffer yards and
foundation approved tree areas.
               e.   Any required landscape islands shall be planted with a
minimum of 2-1/2 inch caliper canopy tree equivalents with preferred approved
trees mix, including 1 canopy tree. Each canopy tree shall be provided with at
least 300 square feet of previous ground area for root growth. This dimension
shall be measured from the insides of the curbs.
               f.   Commercial, office and industrial development shall provide
foundation approved trees along any façade that exceeds 50 lineal feet.
Additionally, commercial, office and industrial developments shall provide a
minimum of one 3-inch caliper canopy tree equivalent per 50 lineal feet of
building façade.
   (D)   Approved trees. The following shall constitute approved trees for
inclusion in landscape plan required hereunder:
      (1)   Shade trees. Shade trees shall be permitted and shall be not less
than 2-1/2 inch caliper measured 1 foot from the ground, nor less than 6 feet
in height. The following trees are prohibited: soft maple, poplar, box elder,
catalpa, tree of heaven, and ash. Willow and mulberry trees may be used as
decorative trees located so as to avoid shedding materials onto walks, drives,
and parking areas. Existing trees that will be preserved may be counted as
meeting the requirement for tree planting.
      (2)   Conifers. Conifers shall be permitted and shall not be any less
than 6 feet in height.
      (3)   Ornamental trees. Ornamental trees shall be permitted and shall not
be less than 2 inches in caliper measured 1 foot from the ground nor less than
6 feet in height.
      (4)   Replacements. Subsequent to the review and approval of such
landscape plan and issuance of the building permit, the Zoning Administrator
may approve minor deviations which do not substantially alter the plan, and
which do not substantially diminish the intended benefits of such plan.
      (5)   A list of acceptable and non-acceptable plant materials may be
found in Appendix A.
   (E)   Timing of landscape improvements. Landscape improvements shall be
installed and approved prior to issuance of an occupancy certificate. However,
the Zoning Administrator may approve a delay in planting due to weather
conditions through the issuance of a temporary occupancy permit until such time
as the landscape improvements can be installed.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 11.03, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.138 LIGHTING.
   (A)   Balancing purposes. All exterior lighting should balance the need for
energy conservation with the needs of safety, security, and decoration.
   (B)   Light fixtures. All exterior lighting, except as hereby allowed, shall
be fully shielded, and otherwise designed so as to avoid glare onto neighboring
residential properties. SHIELDED means that all bulb/light source and cover
portion of a fixture that transmit light shall not extend beyond below the
opaque portion of such fixture so the bulb/light source is not visible from
general side view. LED or metal halide fixtures are preferred for consistency
between developments.
   (C)   Light levels. All exterior lighting fixtures shall be so designed and
placed as to limit light spillage onto adjacent lots. Light levels at the lot
lines adjacent to any residential use, with the exception of ingress and egress
points, shall be a maximum of 0.5 footcandles.
   (D)   Height. In general, the height of exterior lighting features shall not
exceed the predominant height of the principal building to which it relates.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 11.04, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.139 TRASH ENCLOSURES AND STORAGE AREA SCREENING.
   (A)   A 100% visual screen shall be provided around trash containers. Such
screening shall be accomplished by the use of landscaping and/or enclosures
constructed of the same materials used on the principal structure.
   (B)   All exterior storage, including the storage of truck trailers or
vehicles under repair, for commercial or industrial uses shall be screened.
Screening shall be to an opacity of not less than 75% up to 6 feet above grade,
and may be accomplished by berming, landscaping, a neutral color fence or
masonry wall construction.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 11.05, passed 6-23-2015)
SIGNS
§ 151.150 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Applicability. The regulations set forth in this subchapter shall
apply to and govern signs in all zoning districts in the village. No sign shall
be erected, repaired, altered, relocated or maintained except in conformance
with this subchapter unless the sign is otherwise specifically regulated by a
special use provision or provisions relating to variances.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of these regulations is to promote the use of
signs which are safe, aesthetically pleasing, legible, and compatible with
their surroundings. These regulations also encourage the effective use of signs
as a means of identification for businesses and organizations in the village.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 12.01, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.151 SIGN DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED SIGN. A sign which no longer directs attention to or advertises
any person, business, lessor, owner, product, idea, place, activity,
institution, or service.
   ADVERTISING MESSAGE. The words on a sign describing products or services
being offered or available to the public.
   ANIMATED SIGN. A sign that incorporates or includes movement either
physically or electronically with lights or figures.
   AREA OF SIGN.  SIGN AREA shall be the gross surface area within a single
continuous perimeter composed of a single rectangle enclosing the extreme
limits of characters, lettering, illustrations, ornamentations, or other
figures, together with any material, or color forming an integral part of the
display or to differentiate the sign from the background to which it is placed.
Structural supports bearing no sign copy shall not be included in gross surface
area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1941.jpg]
 
   AWNING. A shelter supported entirely from the exterior wall of a building
and composed of non-rigid materials except for the supporting framework. When
an AWNING contains, embodies or displays any words, trademark, logo
illumination or similar representation, these elements shall constitute a SIGN.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1943.jpg]
 
   BACKGROUND AREA. The entire area of a sign on which copy could be placed, as
opposed to the copy area, when referred to in connection with wall signs.
   BANNER. A sign made of paper, plastic, or fabric of any kind which is
intended to be hung either with or without a frame, with or without applied
characters, letters, illustrations, or ornamentations, excluding national,
state or governmental flags.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1945.jpg]
 
   BEACON. A stationary or revolving light (also known as a SEARCHLIGHT) which
flashes or projects illumination, single color or multi-colored, in any manner
which is intended to attract or divert attention. This term is not intended,
however, to include any kind of lighting device which is required or necessary
under the safety regulations described by the Federal Aviation Administration
or similar agencies.
   BILLBOARD. A sign which advertises a business service, organization, event,
person, place, or thing, not offered at or relating to the zoning lot upon
which the sign is placed.
   BUILDING FACE OR WALL. The wall and window area of a building in 1 plane or
elevation.
   BUILDING FRONTAGE. The linear length of a building facing the right-of-way.
   BUSINESS FRONTAGE. The frontage of a lot on a public right-of-way or
privately owned circulation road.
   CANOPY. A structure other than an awning made of cloth, metal or other
materials with frames affixed to a building and carried by a frame which is
supported by the ground. When a CANOPY contains, embodies or displays any
words, trademark, logo lighting or similar representation, those elements
constitute a SIGN.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1947.jpg]
 
   CHANGEABLE COPY. Letters, numerals or other graphics which are not
permanently affixed to a structure and/or set for permanent display, and are
intended to be alterable through manual or electronic means.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1949.jpg]
 
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. A sign of noncommercial nature which directs the reader to
public parks, buildings, historical structures or areas, schools and other
public institutions; or provides information concerning traffic circulation or
parking.
   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGN. A sign that uses changing lights to form a message
or messages wherein the sequence of messages and the rate of change are
electronically programmed and may be modified by electronic processes.
   FAÇADE. The face of a building from grade to the top of the roof or parapet
in height, and from side wall to side wall or front wall to rear wall in width.
   FEATHER SIGN. A lightweight portable or nonportable sign typically
consisting of a flag or fabric mounted to a pole which is driven into the
ground.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1951.jpg]
 
   FLASHING SIGN. Any sign which contains an intermittent or flashing light
source, or which includes the illusion of intermittent or flashing light by
means of animation, or an externally mounted intermittent light source.
Automatic changing signs such as the public service time, temperature and date
signs, or electronically controlled message centers shall be classified as
“changeable copy signs,” not “flashing signs.”
   FREESTANDING SIGN. Any sign supported by structures or supports that is
placed on, or anchored in, the ground, and are independent from any building or
other structure. Pole signs and monument signs are both examples of
FREESTANDING SIGNS.
   HEIGHT OF A SIGN. The vertical distance measured from the upper surface of
the nearest street curb (other than an elevated roadway), to the highest point
of the sign.
   HIGHWAY IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign designed to be seen by motorists
traveling along an interstate highway.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN, EXTERNAL. Any sign which is illuminated by lamps not
installed on or within the sign face.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN, INTERNAL. Any sign which is illuminated by means of light
transited through the sign face. INTERNALLY ILLUMINATED SIGNS include signs
where the lamps are mounted on the sign face.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1953.jpg]
 
   MENU BOARD. A permanent sign used to inform the public of the list of food
and drink items available at a restaurant, including the corresponding prices.
MENU BOARDS are typically associated with a drive-through facility.
   MONUMENT SIGN. Any sign where the bottom side of the sign is placed, or
mounted on a base at least as wide as the sign that is permanently placed, on
the ground. A MONUMENT SIGN shall have no visible posts, poles, pylons, or
other supports designed to raise the sign above the ground. MONUMENT SIGNS are
also referred to as GROUND SIGNS and are also considered a freestanding sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1955.jpg]
 
   NIT (UNIT). A unit of measurement which measures luminous intensity. One NIT
equals 1 candela per square meter.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN (LEGAL). A NONCONFORMING SIGN shall be any sign which:
      (1)   Was lawfully erected and maintained prior to such time as it came
within the purview of this subchapter and any amendments hereto, and which
fails to conform to all applicable regulations and restrictions contained in
this subchapter; or
      (2)   A nonconforming sign for which a permit has been issued.
   OBSCENE. Statements, words, suggestions, or pictures of an indecent or
immoral character, such as will offend public morals or decency.
   PARAPET. That portion of the wall of a building that rises above the roof
level.
   PENNANT. Any lightweight plastic, fabric, or other material, whether or not
containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire, or string,
usually in a series, designed to move in the wind.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1957.jpg]
 
   POLE SIGN. A sign mounted on 1 or more freestanding pole(s) or pylons.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other
permanent structure, or a sign designed to be transported, including, but not
limited to:
      (1)   Signs designed to be transported by means of wheels.
      (2)   Signs converted to “A” or “T” frames.
      (3)   Sidewalk signs.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1959.jpg]
 
   PROJECTING SIGN. Any sign affixed to a building or wall in such a manner
that its leading edge extends more than 12 inches beyond the surface of such
building or wall.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1961.jpg]
 
   RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT SIGN. Permanent residential development signs at
major entrances designed to identify a residential subdivision, and containing
no advertising.
   ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected, constructed, and maintained entirely or
partially upon or over the roof of any building, with the principal support on
the roof.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1963.jpg]
 
   ROOF SIGN, INTEGRAL. Any sign erected or constructed as an integral or
essentially integral part of a normal roof structure of any design, such that
no part of the sign extends vertically above the highest portion of the roof
and such that no part of the sign is separated from the rest of the roof by a
space of more than 6 inches.
   SIGN. A symbol, lettering, pictorial representation, or combination thereof
used for information, identification, or directional purposes or to sell or
advertise products, services, activities or events.
   SIGN FACE. The entire area of a sign on which copy could be placed.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign installed, affixed, or maintained for a short, fixed,
period of time.
   TENANT IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign used where more than 1 business occupies
a building or development, for the sole purpose of identifying which businesses
are located within that building or development.
   UNLAWFUL SIGN. A sign which does not meet the terms of this subchapter or
which the village has declared to be unlawful because it poses a danger to
public safety by reason of dilapidation or abandonment; a nonconforming sign
for which any permit required under any previous ordinance was not obtained.
   VEHICULAR SIGN. Any advertising or business sign attached to or painted on a
motor vehicle or trailer, which is parked or placed in position for display to
the public.
   WALL SIGN. A sign which is placed against a building or other structure and
which is attached to the exterior of a building.
   WINDOW SIGN. A sign that is posted on the interior or exterior of a window
of a building or structure which is intended to be read from the exterior of
the building or structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1965.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2015-08, § 12.02, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.152 SIGNS NOT REQUIRING A PERMIT.
   No permits shall be required for the following signs when erected or
displayed and in accordance with all other requirements of the zoning district
in which they are located.
   (A)   Interior signs. Any sign which is completely within an enclosed
building and which is not visible from outside the building.
   (B)   Monuments and markers. Address, numerals, tablets, grave markers,
headstones, statuary, or remembrances of persons or events which are non-
commercial in nature.
   (C)   Decorations and displays. Non-commercial decorations or displays
celebrating the occasion of legal or religious holidays and which are erected
and/or maintained for a period of less than 45 days. Such decorations or
displays may be illuminated.
   (D)   Real estate signs. Signs used to offer for sale, lease or rent the
property upon which the sign is placed.
      (1)   Residential. One real estate sign shall be allowed per lot with a
maximum area of 6 square feet and a maximum height of 6 feet from grade.
      (2)   Non-residential. One real estate sign shall be allowed per lot with
a maximum area of 32 square feet and a maximum height of 15 feet from grade.
   (E)   No-trespassing and no-dumping signs. No-trespassing or no-dumping
signs not exceeding 2 square feet in area per sign.
   (F)   Political signs. Any sign or poster announcing or describing
candidates seeking public political office, announcing or describing political
issues and data. Such signs shall contain a sign surface area not to exceed 16
square feet. Such signs shall not be located in a public right-of-way.
   (G)   Garage/rummage sale signs. Signs announcing the sale of new or used
personal property from a private residence where the sale activity is
occasional and infrequent and not associated with a permanent commercial
establishment.
   (H)   Employment or help wanted signs. Employment or help wanted signs which
are placed on the premises of the establishment which intends to employ the
personnel described in the sign. Employment or help wanted signs shall, in the
aggregate, not exceed 4 square feet for any 1 establishment. Additionally,
there shall be no more than 2 such signs displayed for any 1 establishment.
   (I)   Window signs. There is not a limit to how many window signs an
establishment may have as long as the area of the signage does not exceed 40%
of the display glass of each window.
   (J)   A-frame or T-frame signs. These portable signs do not need a permit
when the total sign area is below 10 square feet. There shall be a maximum of 1
A- or T-frame sign allowed per establishment and may only be displayed during
business hours.
   (K)   Temporary signs. Temporary signs not exceeding 8 square feet in area.
They shall be displayed for no longer than 30 days. An extension of the display
period may be granted by the Zoning Administrator for a maximum of 90 days.
While a permit is not required for a temporary sign, anyone installing a
temporary sign must register the sign with the Zoning Administrator. Such
registration will identify the location, date of installation, and contact
information for the person installing the sign.
   (L)   Promotional displays. Inflatable signs and tethered balloons,
pennants, feather signs, and beacons shall not require a permit. However,
anyone installing a promotional display must register the display with the
Zoning Administrator. Such registration will identify the location, date of
installation, and contact information for the person installing the sign. Such
devices shall be displayed for no longer than 30 days. An extension of the
display period may be granted by the Zoning Administrator for a maximum of 90
days.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 12.03, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.153 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs shall be prohibited:
   (A)   Flashing lights or strobe lights.
   (B)   Home occupation signs.
   (C)   Obscene signs.
   (D)   Any sign which blocks any required street, alley access-way, or
interferes with the public right- of-way.
   (E)   Any sign which is located on vacant property except a sign advertising
the premises for sale or lease and which meets the standards of §
151.152(D).
   (F)   Any sign attached to a tree or utility pole.
   (G)   Any sign posted or similarly posted directly on the surface of any
wall or structure advertising items that are not sold within the permitted
business use.
   (H)   Any sign which may be in conflict with public traffic signals.
   (I)   Any sign in a public right-of-way (other than those installed by the
village, township, county, or state).
(Ord. 2015-08, § 12.04, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.154 SIGN PLACEMENT.
   (A)   Corner lots. No sign having a height of more than 30 inches above the
crown of the adjacent streets shall be constructed or placed within a
triangular area of 25 feet from the point of intersection of the 2 street
right-of-way lines forming such corner lot.
   (B)   Driveways. No sign having a height of more than 30 inches above the
driveway edge shall be placed within a triangular area created by a line
connecting points along the public right-of-way and the
outer edge of a driveway, which points are established 10 feet distant from the
intersection of the right- of-way (typically the sidewalk) and the outer edge
of the driveway.
      CORNER LOT VISION TRIANGLE                  DRIVEWAY VISION TRIANGLE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1967.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2015-08, § 12.05, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.155 ILLUMINATION.
   In addition to other applicable requirements set forth in this subchapter,
all illuminated signs must comply with the following provisions:
   (A)   With the exception of changing signs (automatic) as defined herein,
all illuminated signs within 150 feet of any residential zoning district shall
be turned off between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. unless the
establishment is engaged in the operation of business during such period, in
which case the sign may be lit during the hours of operation only.
   (B)   Illumination shall be installed or applied only through a translucent
surface; or recessed into the sign structure; or if the light source is
external to the sign, directed to and concentrated on the sign.
   (C)   Signs shall be shaded as necessary to avoid casting a bright light
upon property located in any residential district or upon any public street or
park.
   (D)   Floodlights, gooseneck reflectors or other external sources of
illumination shall be contained within a protective casing.
   (E)   No illuminated sign shall be of the flashing or intermittent type,
except that advertising devices denoting the time, temperature and other
similar information shall not be considered a flashing sign for the purposes of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 12.06, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.156 ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGN.
   Any electronic message sign must comply with the following standards:
   (A)   The maximum area of the electronic message shall not exceed 50% of the
total permitted sign area.
   (B)   The frequency of the message change shall not exceed once every 6
seconds. The message shall not flash but may scroll into place.
   (C)   The brightness may not exceed the following levels:
 
Color             Daytime    Nighttime
Amber or red only 5,000 Nits 1,750 Nits
Full color        7,000 Nits 2,500 Nits
 
   (D)   Prior to issuing a permit for an electronic message sign, applicant
shall provide written certification from the sign installer that the light
intensity has been pre-set not to exceed the levels specified in the table
above. Additionally, access to the intensity level must be protected from end-
user manipulation by password protected software or another method deemed
appropriate by the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 12.07, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.157 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Authorization by owner. Except as provided in §
151.152, no person shall erect, alter, or relocate any sign within the village
without first obtaining the express consent of the owner of the land upon which
the sign shall be erected, altered or relocated, in addition to obtaining a
sign permit from the village.
   (B)   Vertical and horizontal extension. Any sign placed flat against a
wall, mansard roof, canopy or awning shall not extend more than 1 foot beyond
any vertical corner edge of such wall, canopy, awning, roofline or parapet.
   (C)   Sides. Every sign shall have a maximum of 2 sides.
   (D)   Inspection. Every new sign requiring a permit shall be subject to a
general inspection, electrical inspection, footing inspection, and any other
inspection(s) deemed necessary by the village.
   (E)   Maintenance. Every sign, regardless of whether any permit is required
for such sign, shall be maintained in a safe, presentable and good structural
condition at all times, including the replacement of nonfunctioning, broken or
defective parts, painting, repainting, cleaning and any other acts required for
the maintenance of such sign. All signs and sign supports shall be kept
painted, or otherwise treated, to prevent rust, rot or deterioration.
   (F)   Vehicles with signs. Any vehicle or trailer sign shall be exempt from
the regulations of this subchapter, except for the following:
      (1)   The overnight parking of any vehicle or trailer bearing a sign
shall be permitted at the private residence of the vehicle operator or at the
location of the business.
      (2)   The intentional parking of any vehicle bearing a sign in such a way
or in such a location that the vehicle functionally serves as a sign,
advertising or directing viewers to the business or activity to which the
signage refers, shall be prohibited.
      (3)   The parking of any vehicle or trailer bearing a sign in public view
which is not in operating condition and/or lacks a current registration shall
be prohibited.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 12.08, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.158 SIGNS PERMITTED IN ALL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Planned development and subdivision identification signs. Freestanding
monument signs shall be permitted for the purpose of identifying planned
developments or subdivisions in any zoning district which is 3 acres or more.
   (B)   Directional signs and markers.
      (1)   Signs announcing the location of, or directing traffic to, given
locations which include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Service areas – automobile, food, lodging.
         (b)   Public and quasi-public information signs.
         (c)   Business district information sign.
      (2)   Directional signs shall not exceed 4 square feet in area and shall
not exceed 4 feet in height as measured from the top of the adjacent curb.
   (C)   Construction signs. Construction signs shall be allowed in all zoning
districts for the purpose of identifying the construction of individual
buildings or projects. Construction signs shall not be erected any earlier than
4 months prior to actual construction and must be removed within 30 days of
completion of construction.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 12.09, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.159 SIGNS PERMITTED IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   In all residential districts, the following classes of signs are permitted
in accordance with the regulations:
   (A)   Nameplates and identification signs.
      (1)   For 1- and 2-family dwellings, there shall be not more than 1
nameplate, not exceeding 1 square foot in area, for each dwelling unit
indicating the name or address of the occupant or a permitted occupation.
      (2)   For multiple-family dwellings, for apartment hotels and for
buildings other than dwellings, a single identification sign not exceeding 9
square feet in area and indicating only the name and address of the building
and the name of the management thereof may be displayed.
   (B)   Signs accessory to parking areas.
      (1)   Signs designating parking area entrances or exits are limited to 1
sign for each such exit or entrance and to a maximum size of 2 square feet
each. One sign per parking area, designating the conditions of use or identity
of such parking area and limited to a maximum size of 9 square feet, shall be
permitted. On a corner lot 2 such signs, 1 facing each street, shall be
permitted.
      (2)   No sign shall project higher than 1 story or 15 feet above curb
level.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 12.10, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.160 SIGNS PERMITTED IN NON-RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   In all non-residential districts, the following signs are permitted:
   (A)   All signs and nameplates which are permitted in the residential
districts.
   (B)   Wall signs. Total area for all wall signs is limited to a maximum of
10% of the façade upon which the signs are to be mounted. Wall signs are
generally permitted on the façade facing a public street; except:
      (1)   Corner lots may have wall signs facing both streets.
      (2)   Wall signs are also permitted on rear façades that back to an
internal commercial street.
      (3)   Rear signs that face residential developments are prohibited.
   (C)   Freestanding signs. The following regulations include all freestanding
signs including monument and pole signs:
      (1)   There shall be a maximum of 1 freestanding sign allowed per zoning
lot.
      (2)   Freestanding signs shall not exceed 20 feet in height.
      (3)   The sign area shall not exceed a total of 100 square feet per side.
      (4)   The sign shall be located with a minimum setback of 5 feet from any
property line or from the back of the curb of an adjacent access drive.
      (5)   All signs shall be landscaped at their base in a method harmonious
with the landscape concept for the whole site.
      (6)   The sign is allowed to be a changeable copy sign.
      (7)   If the sign includes an electronic message component, regulations
in §
151.156 must be followed.
      (8)   For an integrated multi-tenant business development (like a
shopping center or business park) in single ownership and management, or under
unified control, 1 additional sign may be erected not exceeding 200 square feet
in area per side advertising the name and the location of the integrated
shopping center and major tenants. The overall height shall not exceed 35 feet
above curb level or above the adjoining ground level if such ground level is
above the street level.
   (D)   Awning or canopy signs. One canopy or awning sign shall be permitted
provided no wall sign faces the same street frontage. Canopy signs shall count
towards the total sign area permitted, and shall maintain a clearance of 8 feet
between the lowest point of the canopy and the grade below.
   (E)   Beacons. A maximum of 1 beacon shall be allowed for grand openings and
a permit must be obtained before use.
   (F)   Portable signs.
      (1)   Any portable sign with a total sign area larger than 10 square feet
will require a permit.
      (2)   A maximum of 1 portable sign will be permitted per establishment.
      (3)   Portable signs shall be displayed for no longer than 60 days. An
extension of the display period may be granted by the Zoning Administrator for
a maximum of 90 days.
   (G)   Projecting signs.
      (1)   A maximum of 1 projecting sign will be permitted per establishment
instead of a permitted wall sign.
      (2)   The total sign area of a projecting sign will be included in the
calculations for the total amount of wall signs permitted.
      (3)   Any projecting sign shall be a minimum height of 7 feet above the
sidewalk or ground below it.
      (4)   Any projecting sign may not extend more than 3 feet into the right-
of-way.
      (5)   There shall be a maximum of 32 square feet in area per side.
   (H)   Menu board signs. For restaurants with drive-through facilities, 2
freestanding menu board signs per lot shall be permitted provided that
individual signs do not exceed 36 square feet in area or 8 feet in height.
   (I)   Billboards.
      (1)   Billboards larger than 64 square feet shall only be permitted in
industrial districts.
         (a)   Billboard, advertising signs and poster panels shall have a sign
area not exceeding 275 square feet.
         (b)   All billboard, advertising signs and poster panels shall be set
back from the right-of-way a distance of at least the minimum building setback
requirement of the district.
         (c)   The minimum distance between any 2 billboards, advertising signs
or poster panels located on the same side of a street or highway shall be not
less than 4 feet for every 1 square foot of the total area of 2 signs.
         (d)   No sign shall project higher than 25 feet above the ground level
beneath it.
         (e)   No billboard sign shall be located within 500 feet of any public
park of more than 5 acres in area, or any freeways, expressways and tollroads
designated as such in the records of the governing authorities.
         (f)   No billboard sign shall be located within 100 feet of any
residence district.
      (2)   Billboards of less than 64 square feet shall be permitted in the B-
3 District if within 300 feet of the intersection of the I-55 ramp and Route
113.
   (J)   On-premises freestanding highway identification signs. In addition to
any signs otherwise permitted under this subchapter, 1 on-premise freestanding
sign used for highway identification, not to exceed 400 square feet in surface
area, and not to exceed 60 feet in height, shall be allowed per subdivision or
planned development unless otherwise specified, provided that the following
criteria are met:
      (1)   The property is located in a B-3 zoning district.
      (2)   All of the property is located within 1,500 feet of the centerline
of an Interstate Highway 55.
      (3)   The property is not less than 1 acre in size.
      (4)   The minimum separation distance between 1 on-premises freestanding
highway identification sign and another on-premises freestanding highway
identification sign shall be 500 feet.
      (5)   No on-premises freestanding highway identification sign shall be
located nearer than 500 feet from any residential district, residential use in
a planned development, school, public park or place of worship.
      (6)   Co-location of multiple tenant signs on a single structure is
encouraged over multiple individual signs. No more than 5 individual tenant
signs shall be permitted per pole, and each individual tenant sign shall be
limited to 100 square feet in surface area, allowing a maximum total combined
sign area of 500 square feet. Commercial users located in a single subdivision
or planned development desiring an individual sign instead of co-locating on a
multiple tenant sign shall be required to obtain a variance.
      (7)   Such signs shall in all other respects be in conformance with all
other applicable requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 12.11, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.161 SIGN PERMITS.
   No person shall construct, alter, rebuild, enlarge, erect or place a sign
without first filing with the Zoning Administrator a written application and
obtaining a permit therefor. Such application shall be in duplicate and shall
contain all such information and drawings as may be required by the
Administrator, but at least the names of the property owners, the name of the
person in charge of the sign and drawings of the sign or structure showing
type, size, location and method of attachment. The Administrator may require
that all plans be drawn by a registered architect or structural engineer. The
fee for such permit shall be established by the Village Board.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 12.12, passed 6-23-2015)
OFF-STREET PARKING, STACKING AND LOADING
§ 151.175 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to alleviate or prevent the congestion of
the public streets, and so promote the safety and welfare of the public by
establishing minimum requirements for the off-street parking, stacking, and
loading/unloading of motor vehicles.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 13.01, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.176 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Scope of regulations. The off-street parking and loading provisions of
this chapter shall apply as follows:
      (1)   For all buildings and structures erected and all uses of land
established after the effective date of this chapter, accessory parking,
stacking and loading facilities shall be provided as required by §§
151.180 and
151.182. However, where a building permit has been issued prior to the
effective date of this chapter, and provided that construction is begun within
1 year of such effective date, and diligently prosecuted to completion, parking
and loading facilities as required hereinafter need not be provided.
      (2)   (a)   When the intensity of use of any building, structure or
premises shall be increased through addition of dwelling units, gross floor
area, seating capacity or other unit of measurement specified herein for
required parking, stacking or loading facilities, as required herein shall be
provided for such increase in intensity of use.
         (b)   However, no building or structure lawfully erected or use
lawfully established prior to the effective date of this chapter shall be
required to provide such additional parking or loading facilities unless and
until the aggregate increase in units of measurement existing upon the
effective date of this chapter, in which event parking, stacking or loading
facilities as required herein shall be provided for the total increase.
      (3)   Whenever the existing use of a building or structure shall
hereafter be changed to a new use, parking, stacking or loading facilities
shall be provided as required for such new use. However, if the said building
or structure was erected prior to the effective date of this chapter,
additional parking, stacking or loading facilities are mandatory only in the
amount by which the requirements for the new use would exceed those for the
existing use if the latter were subject to the parking and loading provisions
of this chapter.
   (B)   Existing facilities. Accessory off-street parking, stacking or loading
facilities which are located on the same lot as the building or use served
which were in existence on the effective date of this chapter or were provided
voluntarily after such effective date shall not hereafter be reduced below, or
if already less than, shall not further be reduced below, the requirements of
this chapter for a similar new building or use.
   (C)   Permissive facilities. Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
prevent the voluntary establishment of off-street parking or loading facilities
to serve any existing use of land or buildings provided that all regulations
herein governing the location, design, improvement and operation of such
facilities are adhered to.
   (D)   Damage or destruction. For any conforming or legally nonconforming
building or use which is in existence on the effective date of this chapter,
which subsequent thereto is damaged or destroyed by fire, collapse, explosion
or other cause, and which is reconstructed, re-established or repaired, off-
street parking or loading facilities equivalent to any maintained at the time
of such damage or destruction shall be restored or continued in operation.
However, in no case shall it be necessary to restore or maintain parking or
loading facilities in excess of these required by this chapter for equivalent
new uses of construction.
   (E)   Control of off-site parking facilities. When required parking
facilities are provided on land other than the zoning lot on which the building
or use served by such facilities is located, they shall be and remain in the
same possession or ownership as the zoning lot occupied by the building or use
to which the parking facilities are accessory. No such off-site parking
facilities shall be authorized and no occupancy permit shall be issued where
the plans call for parking facilities other than on the same zoning lot until
and unless the Planning and Zoning Commission has reviewed the plans and heard
the applicant and made findings that the common ownership or possession of the
zoning lot and the site of the parking facilities are reasonably certain to
continue and that the off-site parking facilities will be maintained at all
times during the life of the proposed use or building.
   (F)   Submission of plot plan. Any application for a building permit, or for
a certificate of occupancy where no building permit is required, shall provide
a plot plan – drawn to scale and fully dimensioned – showing all parking,
stacking or loading facilities to be provided in compliance with this chapter.
   (G)   Use of parking facilities. Off-street parking facilities accessory to
residential use and developed in any residential district in accordance with
the requirements of this subchapter shall be used solely for the parking of
passenger automobiles owned by occupants of the dwelling structures to which
such facilities are accessory or by guests of said occupants. Under no
circumstances shall required parking facilities accessory to residential
structures be used for the parking of automobiles belonging to the employees,
owners, tenants, visitors or customers of business or manufacturing
establishments.
   (H)   Computation. When determination of the number of off-street parking
spaces required by this chapter results in a requirement of a fractional space,
any fraction of 1/2 or less may be disregarded while a fraction in excess of 1/
2 shall be counted as 1 parking space.
   (I)   Access. Each required off-street parking space shall open directly
upon an aisle or driveway of such width and design as to provide safe and
efficient means of vehicular access to such parking space. All off-street
parking facilities shall be designed with appropriate means of vehicular access
to a street or alley in a manner which will least interfere with traffic
movements.
   (J)   Design and maintenance.
      (1)   Open and enclosed parking spaces. Accessory parking spaces located
on the same lot as occupied by the use served may be open to the sky or
enclosed in a building. Accessory parking spaces located in a residence
district elsewhere than on the same lot occupied by the use served shall be
open to the sky except when otherwise allowed as a special use.
      (2)   Surfacing. All open off-street parking areas and driveways shall be
improved with a compacted macadam base, not less than 4 inches thick, surfaced
with asphalt or concrete.
      (3)   Screening and landscaping. All open automobile parking areas
containing more than 5 parking spaces shall be effectively screened on each
side adjoining or fronting on any property situated in a residence district or
any institutional premises by a wall, fence or densely planted compact hedge
not less than 4 feet nor more than 7 feet in height. Such required screening
shall conform to the front and side yard setback requirements of the district
in which the parking is located.
      (4)   Lighting. Any lighting used to illuminate off-street parking areas
shall be directed away from residential properties in such a way as not to
create a nuisance. The height of an exterior light fixture shall not exceed the
predominant height of the principal building to which it relates. Additionally,
light bulbs/source shall primarily be metal halide or LED. High pressure sodium
lights are discouraged.
      (5)   Signs. Accessory signs are permitted on parking areas.
      (6)   Repair and service. No motor vehicle repair work of any kind shall
be permitted in conjunction with accessory off-street parking facilities
provided in a residence district. The sale of gasoline and motor oil in
conjunction with accessory off-street parking facilities is not permitted in
any residence district.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 13.02, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.177 DIMENSIONS.
   The following regulations are required for all off-street parking stalls.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1969.jpg]
 
 
Parking Angle Stall Width Minimum Stall Depth for Car- Minimum Stall Depth for
                          to-Wall Stalls               Interlocking Stalls
30            9 ft.       17 ft.                       13 ft.
45            9 ft.       19 ft.                       16 ft.
60            9 ft.       20 ft.                       18 ft.
75            9 ft.       20 ft.                       19 ft.
90            9 ft.       18 ft.                       18 ft.
 
(Ord. 2015-08, § 13.04, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.178 SHARED PARKING.
   (A)   Shared parking can reduce the total area of impervious surfaces
dedicated to parking by allowing a reduction in the amount of parking required
for a single use where parking is shared with an adjacent use. Shared parking
increases the efficiency of land use and encourages mixed-use development.
Generally, shared parking is most effective when there is a distinction between
day and night uses and/or weekday and weekend use.
   (B)   At the applicant’s request, shared parking may be provided, subject to
the following provisions:
      (1)   Agreement. A written agreement shall be executed by all the parties
concerned that assures the perpetual joint use of such common parking, a copy
of which has been submitted to and is acceptable to the Zoning Administrator.
Staff may forward such agreements to the village’s legal counsel for review.
      (2)   Location. Uses sharing a parking facility do not need to be
contained on the same lot, but each use shall be a maximum of 500 feet from the
closest parking space in the lot providing the shared spaces. A waiver of the
maximum allowable distance between the use and associated shared parking may be
approved with written justification and supporting information provided by the
applicant.
      (3)   Calculation. The following methodology shall be used when
calculating the number of spaces for a shared use lot:
         (a)   Determine the minimum parking requirements in accordance with
the land uses in the table below for each land use as if it were as separate
use;
         (b)   Multiply each amount by the corresponding percentages for each
of the 5 time periods indicated in the table below;
         (c)   Calculate the total for each time period;
         (d)   Select the total with the highest value as the required minimum
number of parking spaces.
Land Use Weekday         Weekend
         Daytime Evening Daytime Evening Nighttime
Land Use                 Weekday         Weekend
                         Daytime Evening Daytime Evening Nighttime
Office/Industrial        100%    10%     20%     5%      5%
Retail                   60%     90%     100%    70%     5%
Hotel                    75%     100%    75%     100%    75%
Restaurant               50%     100%    100%    100%    10%
Entertainment/Commercial 40%     100%    80%     100%    10%
Daytime: Between 6:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
Evening: Between 5:00 p.m. and 12:00 a.m.
Nighttime: Between 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
 
(Ord. 2015-08, § 13.04, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.179 LOCATION OF ACCESSORY OFF-STREET PARKING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Generally. The location of off-street parking spaces in relation to
the use served shall be as prescribed hereinafter. All distances specified
shall be walking distances between such parking spaces and a main entrance to
the use served.
   (B)   (1)   For uses in a residential district. Parking spaces accessory to
dwellings shall be located on the same zoning lot as the use served. Spaces
accessory to uses other than dwellings may be located on a lot adjacent to, or
directly across a street or alley from, the lot occupied by the use served, but
in no case at a distance in excess of 300 feet from such use.
      (2)   For uses in business and industrial districts. All required parking
spaces shall be within 1,000 feet of the use served, except for spaces
accessory to dwelling units, which shall be within 300 feet of the use served.
However, no parking spaces accessory to a use in a business or industrial
district shall be located in a residence district, except that private, free,
off-street parking accessory to such uses and municipal parking lots may be
allowed by special use permit in accordance with the administrative §§
151.200 - 151.211 within 200 feet of and adjacent to any business or industrial
district.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 13.05, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.180 SCHEDULE OF PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   The following table establishes the minimum numbers of parking spaces
required for the uses indicated. GFA = “gross floor area.”
Residential Uses Minimum Number of Spaces
Residential Uses                Minimum Number of Spaces
Dwelling, 1-family              2 per dwelling unit
Dwelling, 2-family              2 per dwelling unit
Dwelling, townhome              2 per dwelling unit
Dwelling, multi-family          1.5 per dwelling unit
Boarding house or rooming house 1 per 2 guest rooms, plus 1 for owner/manager
Assisted living facility        1 per 3 rooms, plus 2 per 1,000 GFA of offices
Fraternities, sororities, dorms 1 per 5 members, 1 per manager
 
 
Office Uses     Minimum Number of Spaces
Medical clinic  1 per 200 sq. ft. GFA for buildings less than 5,000 sq. ft. GFA
Office-business 1 per 250 sq. ft. GFA
 
Retail and Service Uses Minimum Number of Spaces
Retail and Service Uses                 Minimum Number of Spaces
                                        3 spaces per 1,000 sq. ft. GFA, plus 1
Agricultural sales and services         space per 1,000 sq. ft. of outdoor
                                        sales area
Banks and financial institutions        1 per 250 sq. ft. GFA, plus 3 stacking
                                        spaces per service line
Barber shops, beauty salons, or massage 2 per chair/bed, plus 1 per employee
Bed and breakfast                       1 space per sleeping room, plus 2
                                        spaces for permanent residents
Dry cleaners                            2 spaces per 1,000 sq. ft. GFA, plus 2
                                        stacking spaces per service line
                                        15 spaces for each area where a funeral
Funeral parlors                         or wake may take place, 1 space per
                                        employee, plus 1 space per vehicle
                                        owned, leased, or rented
Furniture, appliance, household store   1 per 1,000 sq. ft. GFA
Grocery store                           4 per 1,000 sq. ft. GFA
Hotels and motels                       1 per guest room, plus 1 per 800 sq.
                                        ft. GFA of public meeting area
Kennel                                  1 per 400 sq. ft. GFA (no fewer than 4
                                        spaces)
Laundromat                              1 per 2 washing machines
Liquor store                            1 per 300 sq. ft. GFA
Home improvement store/lumber yards     3 per 1,000 sq. ft. GFA, plus 1 per
                                        3,000 sq. ft. of outdoor sales area
Motor vehicle sales                     1 per 300 sq. ft. GFA
Restaurant (no drive-through)           12 per 1,000 sq. ft. GFA
Restaurant (with drive-through)         10 per 1,000 sq. ft. GFA, plus 5
                                        stacking spaces
Restaurant (with live entertainment)    13 per 1,000 sq. ft. GFA
Retail stores                           1 per 250 sq. ft. GFA, plus 3 stacking
                                        spaces per service line
Wholesale establishment                 1 per 500 sq. ft. GFA
 
 
Automotive/Service Uses Minimum Number of Spaces
Car wash (manual)       1 per bay, plus 3 stacking spaces (per bay)
Carwash (automatic)     1 per employee, plus 5 stacking spaces per washing bay
Oil change shop         3 per service bay, plus 3 stacking spaces per bay
                        2 per repair bay, 1 per 1,000 sq. ft. GFA dedicated to
Repair                  office and/or retail space, plus 1 per vehicle owned,
                        leased, or rented
Gas station             3 per 1,000 sq. ft. GFA dedicated to retail sales
 
Religious/Institutional Uses Minimum Number of Spaces
Religious/Institutional Uses         Minimum Number of Spaces
Cemetery                             1 per 250 sq. ft. GFA of office and/or
                                     chapel space
Colleges, universities, professional 1 per employee, plus 1 per 4 students
schools
                                     1 per 4 seats or 1 per 90 lineal inches
Church or synagogue                  seating capacity in main chapel or
                                     auditorium based on design capacity
Elementary school                    1 per faculty member and fulltime
                                     employee, plus 1 per 2 classrooms
High school                          1 per fulltime employee, plus 1 per 7
                                     students
Hospitals                            1 per 2 beds
Library                              1 per 500 sq. ft. GFA
Meeting halls                        1 per 4 seats
Police or fire station               1.5 per employee
Post office                          1 per 250 sq. ft. GFA, plus 1 per 3
                                     employees
Trade school                         1 per 2 students, plus 1 per 2 employees
 
Recreation/Civic Uses Minimum Number of Spaces
Recreation/Civic Uses                  Minimum Number of Spaces
Art gallery                            1 per 500 sq. ft. GFA
Auditoriums                            1 per 4 seats or 1 per 50 sq. ft. GFA
                                       where there is no fixed seating
Ball fields                            20 per playing field
Bowling alleys                         4 per alley
Community center                       1 per 250 sq. ft. GFA, plus 1 per
                                       employee
Drive-in theater                       10% of vehicle capacity
Fitness, recreational gym, or athletic 1 per 250 sq. ft. GFA
club
Golf course                            3 per hole
Private club or lodges                 10% of person capacity
Stadiums, arenas, halls                25% of person capacity
Skating rink                           5 per 1,000 sq. ft. GFA
Swimming pool, public or private       1.5 per 1,000 sq. ft. of pool surface
                                       area
Theaters (indoor)                      1 per 5 seats
 
 
Industrial Uses                   Minimum Number of Spaces
Light industrial                  1 per 1,000 sq. ft. GFA
Research and development facility 1 per 500 sq. ft. GFA
                                  1 per 250 sq. ft. GFA dedicated to office
Self-storage facility             space, 1 per employee, plus 1 per 50 storage
                                  units
Warehouses                        1 per 2,000 sq. ft. GFA
 
 
Transportation/Utility Uses             Minimum Number of Spaces
Airports and aircraft landing fields    1 per 2 employees, plus 1 per 4 seating
                                        accommodations for waiting passengers
Electrical central station, power and   1 per employee
steam generating plants
Public utilities (water filtration
plants, water pumping stations, water
reservoir, sewage treatment, land fill, 1 per employee
telephone exchanges, electric
substations, and similar uses
Radio and television stations and       1 per employee
towers
Transportation terminal                 1 per employee, plus spaces required to
                                        satisfy projected peak parking needs
 
(Ord. 2015-08, § 13.06, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.181 OFF-STREET LOADING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Location.
      (1)   All required loading berths shall be located on the same zoning lot
as the use served. No permitted or required loading berth shall be located in
any required front or side yard. No permitted or required loading berth shall
be located within 25 feet of the nearest point of intersection of any 2
streets.
      (2)   Uses for which off-street loading facilities are required, but are
located in buildings of less floor area than the minimum prescribed for such
required facilities shall be provided with adequate receiving facilities off
any adjacent alley, service drive, or open space on the same lot which is
accessible by motor vehicle.
   (B)   Access. Each required off-street loading berth shall be designed with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner which
will least interfere with traffic movements.
   (C)   Design.
      (1)   Surfacing. Loading areas shall be striped to clearly define these
areas, and discourage automobile parking. Proposed striping shall be subject to
approval by the Village Engineer.
      (2)   Curbing. All loading areas shall be improved with concrete curbing,
as approved by the Village Engineer.
      (3)   Screening. No loading berth shall be closer than 50 feet to any
property in a residence district unless completely enclosed by building walls,
a solid wall, or landscaping.
   (D)   Operation and maintenance.
      (1)   No motor vehicle repair work or service of any kind shall be
permitted in conjunction with loading facilities provided in any residence or
business district.
      (2)   Space allocated to any off-street loading berth shall not, while so
allocated, be used to satisfy the space requirements for any off-street parking
facilities or portions thereof.
      (3)   All screening and landscaping shall be permanently maintained in
good condition with at least the same quality of landscaping as initially
installed.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 13.07, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.182 SCHEDULE OF LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. Truck loading facilities are required in all zoning
districts for structures containing uses devoted to businesses, industry,
manufacturing, storage, warehousing, processing, hotels, hospitals, airports,
and other commercial oriented businesses. If a structure is enlarged, expanded,
or changed, it shall not be used, occupied, or operated unless it has at least
the amount of off-street truck loading facilities that would apply if the
increment were a separate structure.
   (B)   Spaces.
      (1)   Types. There shall be two sizes of off-street truck loading spaces
designated: “large” and “small.”
         (a)   Large spaces. Each large space shall have an overhead clearance
of at least 14 feet, shall be at least 12 feet wide, and shall be at least 50
feet long.
         (b)   Small spaces. Each small space shall have an overhead clearance
of at least 10 feet, shall be at least 8 feet wide, and shall be at least 20
feet long.
      (2)   Location. Off-street truck loading facilities shall be located on
the same lot on which the structure for which they are provided is located.
Service entrances and service yards shall be located only in the rear or side
yard.
      (3)   Minimum requirements and area. The minimum truck loading spaces
shall be provided according to the following table:
 
Gross Floor Area in Square Feet         Required Number of Berths
0 up to and including 12,500            1 small
12,501 up to and including 25,000       2 small
25,001 up to and including 40,000       1 large
40,001 up to and including 100,000      2 large
For each additional 80,000 over 100,000 1 large
 
      (4)   Waiver. The Zoning Administrator is authorized to waive the off-
street loading requirements for any structure if the design and the proposed
use of the structure shows no need of off-street loading.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 13.08, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.183 DRIVE-THROUGH AND STACKING FACILITIES.
   Where permitted, all drive-through facilities shall be subject to the
following regulations:
   (A)   All drive-through facilities shall require a site plan approval by the
Site Plan Review Committee (§
151.210). Such approval may permit deviation from the listed standards for
drive-through facilities.
   (B)   Speakers at a drive-through shall not be audible from adjacent
residential uses.
   (C)   Vehicles exiting drive-through facilities shall be provided adequate
visibility for vehicles entering the adjacent roadway.
   (D)   Aisles must be integrated with the on-site traffic circulation.
   (E)   Drive-through facilities shall provide stacking areas as identified in
§
151.180.
   (F)   Drive-through facilities may only have 2 locations where transactions
are made, excluding banks and car washes.
   (G)   Stacking spaces shall be provided behind each location where
transactions are made without obstructing a public street or common drive aisle
used by other businesses.
   (H)   Stacking spaces shall measure 10 feet in width by 20 feet in length.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 13.09, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.184 MOVING CONTAINER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Properties in residential and business transitional districts. Moving
containers shall be allowed on paved driveways to accommodate residents moving
into or out of a home in the R-1, R-2 or R-3 Zoning Districts. When used to
accommodate moving, containers are permitted for a maximum of 60 days (30 days
for move-out, 30 days for move-in). Moving containers are not permitted in the
R-4 District (except as noted below for sites under construction).
   (B)   Properties in agricultural and business districts. The placement of
moving containers in agricultural or business districts is allowed on a
temporary basis to facilitate business operations. Such containers shall be
allowed for a maximum of 6 months. Moving containers may not occupy a required
loading berth. In no instance shall moving containers be placed in front of the
front wall of a principal building.
   (C)   Properties in the industrial districts. The placement of moving
containers within the I-1 and I-2 Districts shall be restricted to:
      (1)   A concrete or asphalt surfaced area and within the buildable area
of the lot; or
      (2)   Additional off-street loading facilities (beyond the minimum number
of spaces required in §
151.182).
   (D)   Sites under construction. For properties in which there is an active
building permit issued by the village for a residential or non-residential
development, moving containers may be placed on a property provided that they
are set back at least 10 feet from all property lines. Moving containers used
for construction purposes must be immediately removed upon completion of the
construction project.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 13.10, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.185 CARGO STORAGE CONTAINER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Location. Cargo containers are permitted only in industrial districts.
No more than 4 cargo containers may be placed on a single lot unless they
comply with the cargo storage area requirements below.
   (B)   Requirements. Any cargo containers located within the village shall
comply with the following provisions:
      (1)   No cargo containers shall be modified, retrofitted or used on-site
for any purpose other than storage.
      (2)   Cargo containers that become unsound, unstable or otherwise
dangerous shall be immediately repaired or removed from the property where
kept, subject to the village’s requirements.
      (3)   All removable fastened signage displayed on any cargo container
must be fully secured.
      (4)   All cargo containers visible to public rights-of-way shall be
stored in a secure fashion with doors that are fully closed.
   (C)   Cargo storage areas. If more than 4 cargo containers are to be stored
on a parcel, the following provisions must be met:
      (1)   Cargo containers shall not be stacked more than 4 high and such
stacking shall be no closer than 1,000 feet from any residence or property
zoned for residential use.
      (2)   Any such area shall be required to be screened with landscaping,
fencing, berming and wall materials subject to village site plan approval (See
§ 151.209).
      (3)   No single cargo container storage area shall exceed 50 acres.
      (4)   Cargo containers with hazardous materials contained inside shall
not be stacked.
      (5)   Cargo containers may not be grouped more than 110 feet deep with
such groupings separated by drive aisles of no less than 30 feet in width or
side by side in a manner parallel to the drive aisle provided such lateral
placement does not exceed 110 feet in depth between drive aisles.
      (6)   Vehicles entering or leaving the cargo container storage area(s)
shall be restricted to paved surfaces only and in each storage area there shall
be constructed and maintained sufficient paved areas to permit all on-road
vehicles to enter, exit, load, unload, maneuver and otherwise remain at all
times on wholly paved surfaces within the storage area. The remainder of the
storage area shall also be paved. The storage area shall include village
approved drainage, storm water detention, noise control, lighting and
landscaping and screening,
      (7)   Cargo containers shall not be stored or stacked immediately
adjacent to any entrance into the storage area which is adjacent to a public
road; each such entrance shall have a restricted area at the entrance to the
storage area where no cargo containers may be stored or stacked of no less than
20,000 square feet.
      (8)   Each cargo container, truck trailer container or truck chassis
shall not be stored on the site for a period longer than 6 months.
      (9)   Racking of a chassis shall be limited to 57 feet in height and
chassis shall not be stacked more than 5 units high and provided such stacking
and racking is supported a line of sight studies demonstrating such chassis
cannot be seen from the adjacent public roadways.
      (10)   Any business that engages in the maintenance and repair of cargo
containers, not located within a storage facility, that removes cargo
containers from the chassis, shall be subject to the same
requirements as a cargo container storage area. This may include facilities or
operations engaged in the conversion of cargo containers for a secondary use or
sale.
      (11)   The cargo container storage area shall be equipped with an
automatic gate system (which includes an optical character reader) and all
tractors, containers and chassis entering or exiting the cargo container
storage area shall drive through an optical character reader at said automatic
gate.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 13.11, passed 6-23-2015)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.200 ORGANIZATION.
   The administration of this chapter is vested in the following offices of the
village:
   (A)   Zoning Administrator;
   (B)   Planning and Zoning Commission; and
   (C)   Village Board.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 14.01, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.201 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Zoning Administrator and his or her authorized organizational personnel
shall administer and enforce this chapter, and in addition thereto and in
furtherance of said authority, shall:
   (A)   Issue all zoning certificates and make and maintain records thereof;
   (B)   Issue “temporary permits” authorized by this chapter;
   (C)   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures, and land to determine
compliance with this chapter, and notify in writing the person responsible for
any violation found, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the
action necessary to correct it;
   (D)   Order the discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings, or
structures; the removal of illegal buildings or structures or of illegal
additions, or structural changes, or shall take any other action authorized by
state law or by this chapter to ensure compliance with or to prevent violation
of its provisions;
   (E)   Maintain permanent and current records of this chapter, including, but
not limited to all maps, amendments, special use permits, planned unit
developments, variations, appeals, applications, and records of hearings and
decisions;
   (F)   Advise all persons seeking zoning information relating to the official
plans of the village;
   (G)   Provide and maintain a source of public information relative to all
matters arising out of this chapter;
   (H)   Receive, file, and forward to the Planning and Zoning Commission and
Village Board, as applicable, all applications for amendments, special use
permits, planned unit developments, and other matters on which the Planning and
Zoning Commission or Village Board is required to pass under this chapter;
   (I)   Provide and maintain a public information bureau relative to all
matters arising out of a comprehensive amendment;
   (J)   Review all property which has been the subject of legal action
invalidating the decision of the Village Board on such matters and note such
legal action directly upon the village’s Zoning Map;
   (K)   Initiate, direct, and review, from time to time, a study of the
provisions of this chapter and make recommendations as such study requires;
   (L)   Keep the Village Board advised of zoning activities; and
   (M)   Decide or make recommendations on all matters under this chapter upon
which the Zoning Administrator is required to act.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 14.02, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.202 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Creation and membership.
      (1)   The Village Planning and Zoning Commission shall consist of 5
members who are residents of the village and who will serve respectively for
staggered terms of 4 years. The term of office for each Commissioner shall
begin on May 1 of the year of appointment and shall conclude on April 30 of the
year the term of appointment concludes or thereafter until his or her successor
is duly appointed and qualified.
      (2)   The Mayor of the village shall appoint all members of the Village
Planning and Zoning Commission with the advice and consent of the Village
Board. The Mayor shall annually appoint the
Chair of the Commission. The Chair shall serve from May 1 to April 30 or
thereafter until the Chair successor is appointed.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The Planning and Zoning Commission is hereby vested with
the following jurisdiction and authority:
      (1)   To hear appeals from and review any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the Zoning Administration charged with the enforcement of
this chapter;
      (2)   To conduct public hearings on and make recommendations to the
Village Board on applications for variation, special use, amendment, and
planned unit development in the manner prescribed by and subject to the
standards established in this chapter;
      (3)   Receive from the Zoning Administrator the recommendations as to the
effectiveness of this chapter and report its conclusions and recommendations to
the Village Board; and
      (4)   To hear and decide all matters referred to it or upon which it is
required to pass under this chapter, or prescribed by the applicable provisions
of the Illinois Municipal Code.
   (C)   Meetings and rules.
      (1)   All meetings of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be held at
the call of the Chair and at such times as the Planning and Zoning Commission
shall determine.
      (2)   A public hearing shall be conducted by the necessary quorum of the
Commission. A quorum shall consist of 3 members.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided herein, the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall adopt its own rules of procedure provided such rules are in
compliance with the Illinois Municipal Code.
      (4)   Any person may appear and testify at a hearing, either in person or
by a duly authorized agent or attorney.
      (5)   The Chair, or in his or her absence, the Acting Chair, may
administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
      (6)   The Secretary shall keep minutes of the Planning and Zoning
Commission proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or
if absent or failing to vote indicating such fact, and shall also keep records
of its meetings and other official action. A copy of every rule or regulation,
amendment, order, requirement, decision or determination of the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall be filed immediately with the Zoning Administrator. The
Planning and Zoning Commission may adopt other rules and regulations of
procedure not in conflict with this chapter or the Illinois Municipal Code.
      (7)   Before an application may be filed with and officially accepted by
the Zoning Administrator, the applicant must insure that the application is
complete and that it includes the following documentation:
         (a)   Evidence that the applicant is the owner of record of the
property in question. If the owner is represented by an agent other than an
attorney, the owner must supply a notarized statement naming the agent and
indicting that said agent is acting on the owner’s behalf.
         (b)   Evidence that the property described in the application is a
legally recorded “lot of record.”
         (c)   A single plat of survey which encompasses the entire property
subject to an application for a map amendment, special use permit, or variance,
prepared by a State of Illinois registered land surveyor, showing the property
boundaries and the location of any existing or proposed structures on the
property. The plat of survey shall be submitted on paper having dimensions not
larger than 11 inches by 17 inches. Submission of an electronic copy of the
plat of survey in PDF format is also required.
         (d)   Permitting approval or necessary corrective action indicated by
the County Health Department.
         (e)   Permitting approval or necessary corrective action indicated by
the appropriate public roadway authorities or proof that the reviews required
had not been completed within 30 days of the applicant’s request.
         (f)   Review approval or necessary corrective action indicated by the
appropriate fire protective district, in whose primary jurisdiction the
property is located, when the application involves a multi-family dwelling,
residential subdivision development, commercial or industrial property, any
planned unit development (PUD), or any division of land which will create 2 or
more new principal uses of land.
         (g)   Review and comment from the Claypool Drainage District.
         (h)   Eight copies of such application and supporting documentation
shall accompany the original application.
   (D)   Public hearings and notice requirements. The following provisions
shall apply to public hearings required by this chapter in addition to any
other specific provisions set forth in this chapter:
      (1)   When the provisions of this chapter require a public hearing, the
village shall, upon receipt of a properly completed application, petition, or
notice, fix a reasonable time and place for such hearing or meeting. Except as
otherwise set forth herein, such hearing or meeting shall be commenced no later
than 60 days, and shall be concluded no later than 120 days, following the
submission of the subject application, or petition, unless the hearing or
meeting agenda of the Planning and Zoning Commission is completely committed
during that time.
      (2)   All hearings shall be open to the public and shall be held before
the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (3)   The Planning and Zoning Commission public hearing notice shall
contain a description of the subject matter to be heard or considered at the
hearing, a description of the requested action, the address or particular
location of the subject development, and the time, place, and date of the
hearing. The notice shall also contain a reference to the particular sections
of this chapter involved.
      (4)   The applicant shall give notice of the public hearing by mail or
personal delivery to the owners of all properties within 250 feet, excluding
road right-of-way, of the property which is the subject of the application.
Such notice shall be mailed no fewer than 14 days in advance of the hearing and
shall be sent certified mail marked return receipt requested, except as
otherwise specifically provided in this chapter. Supplemental or additional
notices may be required by the Planning and Zoning Commission. Proof of mailing
shall be sufficient evidence of notice.
      (5)   The village shall publish notice of the public hearing at least
once, not more than 30 days nor less than 15 days before the date for the
hearing, in a newspaper of general circulation in the village.
      (6)   Any interested person may appear and testify at a public hearing,
either in person or by a duly authorized agent or attorney, and may submit
documentary evidence; provided, however, that the Planning and Zoning
Commission may exclude irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence.
      (7)   (a)   Subject to the discretion of the Planning and Zoning
Commission, the applicant or petitioner, or any other party to the hearing, may
be allowed any or all of the following rights:
            1.   To present witnesses on their behalf;
            2.    To cross-examine all witnesses testifying in opposition to
the application, petition, or appeal;
            3.   To examine and reproduce any documents produced at the
hearing; and/or
            4.   To a continuance, upon request, for the purpose of presenting
evidence to rebut evidence introduced by any other person.
         (b)   In determining whether to grant or withhold such rights, the
discretion of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be governed by the goal
of securing all information and opinions relevant and material to its
deliberations. Such rights shall not be granted, however, when undue and
unwarranted delay would result or when to do so would tend to produce no new
evidence to aid the Planning and Zoning Commission in reaching its decision.
      (8)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may at any time, on its own
motion or at the request of any person, adjourn the hearing for a reasonable
time and to a fixed date, time, and place, for the purpose of giving further
notice, taking further evidence, gathering further information, deliberating
further, or for such other reason as the Planning and Zoning Commission may
find sufficient. Proper notice of such a recess shall be given to all parties
to the hearing, and any other person designated by the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
      (9)   All testimony at every hearing shall be given under oath.
      (10)   Any person may at any time prior to the commencement of a hearing
hereunder, or during such hearing, submit written statements in support of or
in opposition to the application, petition, or appeal being heard.
      (11)   All other matters pertaining to the conduct of hearings shall be
governed by the provisions of this chapter pertaining to the rules promulgated
by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (12)   The record of the public meeting shall include:
         (a)   All notices and responses thereto;
         (b)   A transcript or notes, if any, of all oral testimony received,
and all written information, if any, submitted by parties or the public;
         (c)   Any recommendation or report by the hearing body; and
         (d)   All memoranda or data submitted to the Planning and Zoning
Commission in connection with its consideration of the subject matter of the
hearing.
      (13)   The decision or recommendation of the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall be in writing and shall include findings of fact stating the
reasons for the decision. A copy of the written decision shall be provided to
the applicant or petitioner and transmitted to the Village Board. The written
decision may be in the form of minutes from the Planning and Zoning Commission
proceedings provided such minutes have been approved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 14.03, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.203 ZONING CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued by the village for the construction
of a building, structure or land improvement or an alteration or enlargement of
an existing building, structure or land improvement and the uses thereof, until
the Zoning Administrator certifies in such permit that the application conforms
with the regulations of this chapter.
   (B)   When a permit is not required by the village for an improvement but an
application for a zoning certificate for its use is filed with the village, a
zoning certificate shall be issued only when the application shows conformance
with the regulations of this chapter.
   (C)   All applications for building permits or zoning certificates shall be
accompanied by a plat in duplicate, drawn to scale showing the actual
dimensions of the lot or lots to be built upon, the size of the building or
structure to be erected or structurally altered, its location on the lot or
lots and such other information as may be necessary to provide for the
enforcement of these regulations. A careful record of such applications and
plats shall be kept in the office of the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning
Administrator shall in writing approve or disapprove all building permits or
zoning certificates within 30 days after submission thereof; failure to act
shall be deemed approval thereof.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 14.04, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.204 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No building or addition thereto, constructed after the effective date
of this chapter, and no addition to a previous existing building shall be
occupied and no land vacant on the effective date of this chapter shall be used
for any purpose, until a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the Zoning
Administrator. No change in a use in any district shall be made until a
certificate of occupancy has been issued by the Zoning Administrator. Every
certificate of occupancy shall state that the use or occupancy complies with
all the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Every application for a building permit shall also be deemed to be an
application for a certificate of occupancy. Every application for a certificate
of occupancy for a new or changed use of land or building where no building
permit is required shall be made to the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   No certificate of occupancy for a building or addition thereto,
constructed after the effective date of this chapter, shall be issued until
construction has been completed and the premises have been inspected and
certified by the Zoning Administrator to be in full and complete compliance
with the plans and specifications upon which the zoning certificate was based.
No addition to a previously existing building shall be occupied, and no new use
of a building in any district shall be established until the premises have been
inspected and certified by the Zoning Administrator to be in full compliance
with all the applicable standards of the zoning district in which it is
located. Pending the issuance of a regular certificate, a temporary certificate
may be issued to be valid for a period not to exceed 6 months from its date
during the completion of any addition or during partial occupancy of the
premises. A certificate of occupancy shall be issued, or written notice shall
be given to the applicant stating the reasons why a certificate cannot be
issued, not later than 14 days after the Zoning Administrator is notified in
writing that the building or premises is ready for occupancy.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 14.05, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.205 APPEALS OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS.
   (A)   Authority. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hear and decide
appeals from an administrative order, requirement or determination under this
chapter, made by the Zoning Administrator.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1975.jpg]
 
   (B)   Initiation and processing.
      (1)   An appeal may be taken to the Planning and Zoning Commission by any
person, firm or corporation, or by any office, department, board, bureau or
commission, aggrieved by an administrative order, requirement, decision, or
determination under this chapter.
      (2)   The appeal shall be taken within 30 days of the date of the
decision being appealed by filing with the Village Clerk a notice of appeal,
specifying the grounds thereof. Such appeal shall be taken upon forms provided
by the Planning and Zoning Commission. The Zoning Administrator shall transmit
to the Planning and Zoning Commission all the papers constituting the record
upon which the action appealed was taken.
      (3)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the Zoning Administrator certifies to the Planning and
Zoning Commission that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay
would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In this
event the proceedings shall not be stayed unless by a restraining order which
may be granted by the Planning and Zoning Commission or by a court of record
based on due causes shown.
      (4)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall fix a reasonable time for
the hearing of the appeal and give due notice thereof to the parties and decide
the appeal within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in
person or by agent or attorney. The Planning and Zoning Commission may reverse
or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination as in its opinion ought to be made in the premises and to that
end has all the power of the officer from whom the appeal is taken. This
decision must be supported by written findings of fact.
   (C)   Appeals.
      (1)   Appeals of the Planning and Zoning Commission’s decisions may be
filed by any person aggrieved by their action. The appeal must be filed with
the Zoning Administrator within 15 days of the Planning and Zoning Commission
decision.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a complete appeal application, the Zoning
Administrator must forward the appeal to the Village Board.
      (3)   The Village Board may overturn the decision of the Planning and
Zoning Commission only if approved by at least a 3/4 majority vote of the
entire Village Board.
      (4)   Any decisions of the Planning and Zoning Commission not appealed to
the Village Board within 15 days of the date of the Planning and Zoning
Commission’s decision will be considered a final administrative determination
and will be subject to judicial review only in accordance with applicable
Illinois Statutes.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 14.06, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.206 VARIATIONS.
   (A)   Intent. Zoning variances (sometimes referred to as variations) are
intended as a way to provide relief from practical difficulties or unnecessary
hardships resulting from strict application of zoning chapter requirements.
   (B)   Applicability; authorized variances. The Village Board is authorized
to grant a variance to any regulation in this zoning chapter in accordance with
the variance procedures of this section, except that the variance procedures
may not be used to:
      (1)   Permit a principal use in a zoning district that is not otherwise
allowed in that zoning district (i.e., “use variances” are prohibited);
      (2)   Waive, modify or amend any definition or use classification;
      (3)   Waive, modify or otherwise vary any of the review and approval
procedures;
      (4)   Waive, vary, modify or otherwise override a condition of approval
or requirement imposed by an authorized decision-making body or the state or
federal government; or
      (5)   Waive, vary or modify applicable “minimum lot area per unit”
(density) standards (Note: this provision is not intended to prohibit variances
of minimum lot area requirements for individual lots).
   (C)   Authority to file. Variance applications may be filed by any person,
firm, or corporation having a freehold interest, a possessory interest entitled
to exclusive possession, or any exclusive possessory interest that is
specifically enforceable on the property that is the subject of the proposed
variance. Applications may be filed by the property owner (described above) or
by the owner’s authorized agent.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1977.jpg]
 
   (D)   Application filing. Complete applications for variances must be filed
with the Zoning Administrator. A separate application must be made for each
noncontiguous parcel of land.
   (E)   Review and report — Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator
must prepare a report and recommendation that evaluates the proposed variance
in light of the standards of division (I) of this section. The report must be
transmitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission before their public hearing
on the proposed variance.
   (F)   Notice of hearing.
      (1)   Newspaper notice. Notice of the Planning and Zoning Commission’s
required public hearing on a variance must be published in the newspaper in
accordance with §
151.202(D)(5).
      (2)   Delivered notice. Notice of the Planning and Zoning Commission’s
required public hearing must be delivered to the subject property owner and all
owners of property in accordance with §
151.202(D)(4).
   (G)   Hearing and recommendation — Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (1)   The Planning and Zoning Commission must hold a public hearing to
consider the variance request.
      (2)   Following the close of the hearing, the Planning and Zoning
Commission must act by simple majority vote to recommend that the proposed
variance be approved, approved with modifications and/or conditions, or denied
and transmit its findings and recommendations to the Village Board.
   (H)   Final action — Village Board.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the Planning and Zoning Commission’s findings and
recommendation, the Village Board may act to approve the proposed variance
application, approve the variance with conditions and/or modifications or deny
the variance. The Village Board may also return the application to the Planning
and Zoning Commission for further consideration, together with a written
explanation of the reasons for doing so.
      (2)   The Village Board is authorized to impose such conditions and
restrictions upon the premises benefitted by a variance as the Board determines
to be necessary to ensure compliance with the standards of division (I) of this
section, to reduce or minimize the effect of the variance upon other properties
in the area, and to better carry out the general public and intent of this
zoning chapter.
      (3)   The Village Board may act by a simple majority vote of the entire
Village Board.
      (4)   If no action is taken by the Village Board within 6 months after
receipt of the report of the Planning and Zoning Commission, the application is
deemed to have been denied.
   (I)   Standards and review criteria.
      (1)   No variance may be recommended for approval or approved unless the
Planning and Zoning Commission makes both of the following findings based upon
the evidence presented:
         (a)   That the plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances; and
         (b)   That the variance, if granted, will not alter the essential
character of the locality.
      (2)   For the purpose of supplementing the 2 preceding standards for
recommendation for approval, the Planning and Zoning Commission must also weigh
and consider the extent to which the following facts, favorable to the
applicant, have been established by the evidence presented:
         (a)   That the particular physical surroundings, shape, or
topographical conditions of the subject property results in a particular
hardship upon the owner, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience, if the
strict letter of the regulations were to be carried out;
         (b)   That the conditions upon which the variance application is based
would not be applicable generally to other property within the same zoning
classification;
         (c)   That the purpose of the variance is not based exclusively upon a
desire to make more money out of the property;
         (d)   That the alleged difficulty or hardship was not created by any
person presently having an interest in the property;
         (e)   That the granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or unduly injurious to other property or improvements in the
neighborhood in which the property is located; and
         (f)   That the proposed variance will not impair an adequate supply of
air to adjacent property, or substantially increase the danger of fire, or
otherwise endanger the public safety, or substantially diminish or impair
property values within the neighborhood.
   (J)   Transferability. Approved variances run with the land and are not
affected by changes of tenancy, ownership, or management.
   (K)   Amendments. A request for changes in conditions of approval of
variance must be processed as a variance application, including the
requirements for fees and notices.
   (L)   Lapse of approval.
      (1)   An approved variance will lapse and have no further effect 1 year
after it is approved by the Village Board, unless:
         (a)   A building permit has been issued (if required); or
         (b)   The use or structure has been lawfully established.
      (2)   The Village Board is authorized to extend the expiration period for
good cause on up to 2 separate occasions, by up to 180 days each. Requests for
extensions must be submitted to the Zoning Administrator before the variance
expires. No hearings, notices or fees are required for extensions.
      (3)   A variance also lapses upon revocation of a building permit for
violations of conditions of approval or upon expiration of a building permit to
carry out the work authorized by the variance.
   (M)   Successive applications. In the event that a variance application is
denied, no application may be approved for substantially the same variance on
substantially the same site for 12 months from the date of denial by the
Village Board, unless the Village Board determines that conditions in the area
have substantially changed.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 14.07, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.207 ZONING ORDINANCE TEXT AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Authority to file. Amendments to the text of this zoning chapter may
be initiated only by the Village Board or the Planning and Zoning Commission.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1979.jpg]
 
   (B)   Review and report — Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator
must prepare a report and recommendation that evaluates the proposed zoning
ordinance text amendment in light of the review criteria of division (E) below.
The report must be transmitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission before
their public hearing on the proposed text amendment.
   (C)   Notice of hearing. Notice of the Planning and Zoning Commission’s
required public hearing on a zoning ordinance text amendment must be published
in the newspaper in accordance with §
151.202(D)(5).
   (D)   Hearing and recommendation — Planning and Zoning Commission. The
Planning and Zoning Commission must hold a public hearing on the proposed text
amendment. Following the close of the hearing, the Planning and Zoning
Commission must act by simple majority vote to recommend that the proposed text
amendment be approved, approved with modifications, or denied and transmit its
findings and recommendations to the Village Board.
   (E)   Review criteria. The Planning and Zoning Commission may not recommend
approval of a zoning ordinance text amendment unless it finds that the proposed
amendment is in the public interest. The Planning and Zoning Commission must
make findings based on the evidence presented to it in each specific case with
respect to the following matters:
      (1)   Whether the proposed zoning ordinance text amendment corrects an
error or inconsistency in the zoning chapter or meets the challenge of a
changing condition; and
      (2)   Whether the proposed zoning ordinance text amendment is consistent
with adopted plans and policies of the village.
   (F)   Final action — Village Board.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the Planning and Zoning Commission’s findings and
recommendation, the Village Board may act to approve the proposed zoning
ordinance text amendment, approve the proposed text amendment with
modifications or deny the proposed text amendment. The Village Board may also
return the application to the Planning and Zoning Commission for further
consideration, together with a written explanation of the reasons for doing so.
      (2)   Zoning ordinance text amendments may be approved by a simple
majority vote of the entire Village Board. However, if a written protest
petition (see division (G) of this section) against the proposed zoning
ordinance text amendment is signed and acknowledged by at least 10% of the
registered voters of the village, at least a 3/4 majority vote of the entire
Village Board shall be required for approval.
      (3)   If no action is taken by the Village Board within 6 months after
receipt of the report of the Planning and Zoning Commission, the proposed text
amendment is deemed to have been denied.
   (G)   Protest petitions. A written protest petition opposing a zoning
ordinance text amendment must be submitted to the Village Clerk before the
Village Board’s vote, allowing sufficient time for the Village Clerk to
determine the validity of the petition.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 14.08, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.208 ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS (REZONING).
   (A)   Authority to file. Amendments to the zoning map may be initiated only
by the Village Board, the Planning and Zoning Commission or by any other
person, firm, or corporation having a freehold interest, a possessory interest
entitled to exclusive possession, or any exclusive possessory interest that is
specifically enforceable on the property that is the subject of the proposed
zoning map amendment. Rezoning petitions may be filed by the property owner
(described above) or by the owner’s authorized agent.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1981.jpg]
 
   (B)   Application filing. Complete applications for zoning map amendments
must be filed with the Zoning Administrator. A separate application must be
made for each noncontiguous parcel of land.
   (C)   Review and report — Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator
must prepare a report and recommendation that evaluates the proposed zoning map
amendment in light of the review criteria of division (F) of this section. The
report must be transmitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission before their
public hearing on the proposed rezoning.
   (D)   Notice of hearing.
      (1)   Newspaper notice. Notice of the Planning and Zoning Commission’s
required public hearing on a zoning map amendment must be published in the
newspaper in accordance with §
151.202(D)(5).
      (2)   Delivered notice. Notice of the Planning and Zoning Commission’s
required public hearing on a zoning map amendment must be delivered to the
subject property owner and all owners of property in accordance with §
151.202(D)(4).
   (E)   Hearing and recommendation — Planning and Zoning Commission. The
Planning and Zoning Commission must hold a public hearing on the proposed
zoning map amendment. Following the close of the hearing, the Planning and
Zoning Commission must act by simple majority vote to recommend that the
proposed map amendment be approved, approved with modifications, or denied and
transmit its findings and recommendations to the Village Board.
   (F)   Review criteria. The Planning and Zoning Commission may not recommend
approval of a zoning map amendment unless it finds that the proposed amendment
is in the public interest and is not solely for the interest of the applicant.
The Planning and Zoning Commission must make findings based on the evidence
presented to it in each specific case with respect to the following matters:
      (1)   Existing uses of property within the general vicinity of the
subject property;
      (2)   The zoning classification of property within the general vicinity
of the subject property;
      (3)   The suitability of the subject property for the uses allowed under
the existing zoning classification;
      (4)   The trend of development, if any, in the general vicinity of the
subject property, including changes, if any, that may have taken place since
the time the subject property was placed in its present zoning classification;
and
      (5)   Consistency (or inconsistency) with the Village Comprehensive Plan.
   (G)   Final action — Village Board.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the Planning and Zoning Commission’s findings and
recommendation, the Village Board may act to approve the proposed zoning map
amendment, approve the proposed zoning map amendment with modifications (e.g.,
reducing the land area or recommending another zoning classification) or deny
the proposed zoning map amendment. The Village Board may also return the
application to the Planning and Zoning Commission for further consideration,
together with a written explanation of the reasons for doing so.
      (2)   Zoning map amendments may be approved by a simple majority vote of
the entire Village Board, except that in the following cases approval of a
zoning map amendment requires at least a 3/4 majority vote of the entire
Village Board:
         (a)   If a written protest petition against the proposed zoning map
amendment is signed and acknowledged by:
            1.   The owners of 20% or more of the land area proposed to be
rezoned; or
            2.   The owners of land immediately touching or immediately across
a street, alley, or public right-of-way from at least 20% of the perimeter of
the land proposed to be rezoned.
      (3)   If no action is taken by the Village Board within 6 months after
receipt of the report of the Planning and Zoning Commission, the application is
deemed to have been denied.
      (4)   Notwithstanding any other provisions to the contrary, if a zoning
map amendment is proposed solely to correct an error made by the village as a
result of a comprehensive rezoning, the map amendments may be passed at a
Village Board meeting by a simple majority of the entire Village Board.
   (H)   Protest petitions.
      (1)   A written protest petition opposing a zoning map amendment must be
submitted to the Village Clerk or on the public record before the Village
Board’s vote, allowing sufficient time for the Village Clerk to determine the
validity of the petition.
      (2)   When a written protest petition has been submitted, the protest
must be served by the protestors upon the applicant and upon the applicant’s
attorney, if any, by certified mail at the applicant’s and attorney’s addresses
shown on the application.
   (I)   Successive applications. In the event that a rezoning application is
denied, no application may be accepted that proposes reclassification of any of
the same property for the same zoning district for 12 months from the date of
the previous Planning and Zoning Commission public hearing.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 14.09, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.209 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Intent. The special use permit approval procedure of this section is
intended to provide a transparent, public review process for land uses that,
because of their widely varying design and operational characteristics, require
case-by-case review in order to determine whether they will be compatible with
surrounding uses and development patterns.
   (B)   Authority to file. Special use permit applications may be filed by any
person, firm, or corporation having a freehold interest, a possessory interest
entitled to exclusive possession, or any exclusive possessory interest that is
specifically enforceable on the property that is the subject of the proposed
special use permit. Applications may be filed by the property owner (described
above) or by the owner’s authorized agent.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1983.jpg]
 
   (C)   Application filing. Complete applications for special use permits must
be filed with the Zoning Administrator. A separate application must be made for
each noncontiguous parcel of land.
   (D)   Review and report — Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator
must prepare a report and recommendation that evaluates the proposed special
use in light of the standards of division (H) of this section. The report must
be transmitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission before their public
hearing on the proposed special use permit.
   (E)   Notice of hearing.
      (1)   Newspaper notice. Notice of the Planning and Zoning Commission’s
required public hearing on a special use permit application must be published
in the newspaper in accordance with §
151.202(D)(5).
      (2)   Delivered notice. Notice of the Planning and Zoning Commission’s
required public hearing on a special use permit application must be delivered
to the subject property owner and all owners of property in accordance with §
151.209(D)(4).
   (F)   Hearing and recommendation — Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (1)   The Planning and Zoning Commission must hold a public hearing on
the special use permit application.
      (2)   Following the close of the hearing, the Planning and Zoning
Commission must act by simple majority vote to recommend that the proposed
special use permit be approved, approved with modifications and/or conditions,
or denied and transmit its findings and recommendations to the Village Board.
   (G)   Final action — Village Board.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the Planning and Zoning Commission’s findings and
recommendation, the Village Board may act to approve the proposed special use
permit application, approve the special use permit with conditions and/or
modifications or deny the special use permit. The Village Board may also return
the application to the Planning and Zoning Commission for further
consideration, together with a written explanation of the reasons for doing so.
      (2)   The Village Board is authorized to impose such conditions and
restrictions upon the premises benefitted by a special use permit as the Board
determines to be necessary to ensure compliance with the standards of division
(H) of this section, to reduce or minimize the effect of the special use upon
other properties in the area, and to better carry out the general public and
intent of this zoning chapter.
      (3)   The Village Board may act by a simple majority vote of the entire
Village Board.
      (4)   If no action is taken by the Village Board within 6 months after
receipt of the report of the Planning and Zoning Commission, the application is
deemed to have been denied.
   (H)   Review criteria and standards. No special use permit may be
recommended for approval or approved unless:
      (1)   The establishment, maintenance, or operation of the special use
will not be detrimental to or endanger the public’s health, safety, morals,
comfort, or general welfare.
      (2)   The special use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of
other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already permitted,
nor substantially diminish or impair property values within the neighborhood.
      (3)   Establishment of the special use will not impede the normal and
orderly development and improvement of surrounding property for uses permitted
in the district.
      (4)   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage, and/or other necessary
facilities have been or will be provided to serve the proposed use.
      (5)   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress and
egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets.
      (6)   The special use in all other respects conforms to the applicable
regulation of the district in which it is located, except as such regulations
may in each instance be modified by the Village Board pursuant to the
recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (I)   Lapse of approval.
      (1)   An approved special use permit will lapse and have no further
effect 1 year after it is approved by the Village Board, unless:
         (a)   A building permit has been issued (if required);
         (b)   A certificate of occupancy has been issued; or
         (c)   The special use has been lawfully established.
      (2)   The Village Board is authorized to extend the expiration period for
good cause on up to 2 separate occasions, by up to 180 days each. Requests for
extensions must be submitted to the Zoning Administrator before the special use
permit expires. No hearings, notices or fees are required for extensions.
      (3)   A special use permit also lapses upon revocation of a building
permit for violations of conditions of approval or upon expiration of a
building permit to carry out the work authorized by the special use permit.
      (4)   If any special use is abandoned, or is discontinued for a
continuous period of 6 months or more, the special use permit for such use is
void, and such use may not be reestablished unless and until a new special use
permit is obtained in accordance with the procedures of this section.
   (J)   Successive applications. In the event that a special use permit
application is denied, no application may be approved for substantially the
same use on substantially the same site for 12 months from the date of denial
by the Village Board, unless the Village Board determines that conditions in
the area have substantially changed.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 14.10, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.210 SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   Purpose. Site plan review is established to ensure compliance with the
standards of development outlined in this zoning chapter. Site plans will
typically be reviewed concurrently with §§
151.135 -
151.139, Architectural and Landscape Requirements.
   (B)   Applicability. Site plan approval shall be required prior to the
issuance of a building permit for all new construction, any additions (building
or parking), and the erection of building structures for all development zoned
business (B-1, B-3, BT), industrial (I-1 or I-2), R-3, R-4, and all planned
unit developments. The following are specifically exempt from site plan review:
      (1)   Agricultural structures on farmsteads or single-family lots;
      (2)   One-family and 2-family residential uses; and
      (3)   Any commercial, office, manufacturing or multi-family refurbishing,
renovation, or structural addition that constitutes less than 25% percent of
the total square footage of an existing structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7bcc60dd6b414fa1c7379f3c51b8dedcd8d64869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1985.jpg]
 
   (C)   Application. An application for site plan review shall be filed with
the Zoning Administrator. The application shall be accompanied by a
nonrefundable fee as established by the Village Board.
   (D)   Plan submission. One electronic set (PDF) and 8 sets of all site plans
shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator with all required information.
The Zoning Administrator shall have discretion to accept a reduced number of
copies of such plans provided at least 3 full-size sets are provided. The plan
shall be considered as submitted only when all information, documentation and
fee requirements are met. All site plans shall be drawn to scale. The site plan
submission packet shall contain the following:
      (1)   Property owner’s name, address and phone number;
      (2)   The developer’s name, address and phone number (if different from
property owner);
      (3)   Name, address and phone number of architect, land planner,
engineer, surveyor or consulting firm (with contact person listed) who is
responsible for compiling the plan;
      (4)   A complete legal description of the subject property;
      (5)   Date of plan preparation and/or revision;
      (6)   North arrow and graphic scale;
      (7)   Current zoning/requested zoning (if a change is desired);
      (8)   Illustration of proposed site conditions, including:
         (a)   Existing topography graphically represented via contour lines of
2-foot intervals, extending 20 feet surrounding the subject site;
         (b)   Location and extent of water bodies, wetlands, streams and
floodplains on or adjacent to the subject site;
         (c)   Sidewalks, curbing and drainage structures;
         (d)   Stormwater detention/retention areas. Method of computing
drainage requirements shall be consistent with those specified in the village
subdivision regulations;
         (e)   Floor area for building footprint and gross floor area of
structure, building height and number of stories;
         (f)   Parking, loading, drive aisles, drive-up aisles, driveway
access, refuse disposal, and computation of required parking spaces;
         (g)   Grading/drainage plans, including contours and elevations;
         (h)   Erosion control plan for any proposed detention or retention
area;
         (i)   Utility plans indicating location of water and sanitary sewer
service lines, including size and type of pipe and all other information such
as hydrants and clean-outs as may be required by the Village Engineer; and
         (j)   Lighting plans, including type of fixtures, height and location.
   (E)   Procedure for review of site plans.
      (1)   Plan Review Committee created.
         (a)   To provide for the review of planned unit development and site
plan applications, a Plan Review Committee is hereby established. This Plan
Review Committee shall consist of the Zoning Administrator, the chairperson of
the Planning and Zoning Commission, the Mayor, the Village Engineer, and any
other village consultants or staff as determined appropriate by the Zoning
Administrator. No quorum is required to conduct a Plan Review Committee
meeting.
         (b)   The Plan Review Committee shall meet as needed. At least 1 week
prior to any such meeting, the Zoning Administrator shall submit copies of all
pending applications to committee members. The Zoning Administrator will be
responsible for documenting suggestions made at committee meetings and
forwarding comments to the Plan Review Committee and the applicant.
      (2)   Optional pre-application meeting.
         (a)   Before submitting a complete application and receiving written
feedback, the applicant may request a pre-application meeting with the Zoning
Administrator.
         (b)   The purpose of the pre-application meeting is to provide the
applicant with a preliminary review of his or her proposal and to identify
whether the site plan or other proposed improvement plans, if any, appear to
provide sufficient detail to determine compliance with the provisions of this
zoning chapter and all other applicable village standards and ordinances.
      (3)   Site plan filing and decision.
         (a)   All site plans which are appropriately submitted and conform to
standards and regulations set for in this section shall be filed with the
Village Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall submit a complete
copy to each member of the Plan Review Committee.
         (b)   The site plan will then be reviewed by the Plan Review
Committee, who will approve, approve with conditions, or deny the proposed plan
within 30 days following receipt of such site plan from the Zoning
Administrator. This time limit may be extended with consent of the applicant
when plan revisions are requested prior to approval. The Plan Review
Committee’s decision shall be based upon substantial compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. The applicant may appeal any decision of the Plan
Review Committee to the Village Board for a final decision. The Zoning
Administrator shall prepare a letter summarizing Plan Review Committee
decisions and provide a copy to the applicant.
      (4)   Revocation. When a site plan has been approved by the Plan Review
Committee and when no substantial construction work is initiated within 1 year
from the date of approval, then, without further action by the village, such
site plan approval shall become null and void.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 14.11, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.211 VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Responsibility for enforcement. The Zoning Administrator is
responsible for enforcing this zoning chapter, except as otherwise expressly
stated.
   (B)   Violations. Unless otherwise expressly allowed by this zoning chapter
or state law, any violation of a provision of this zoning chapter – including
but not limited to all of the following – may be subject to the remedies and
penalties provided for in this zoning chapter.
      (1)   To use land or buildings in any way not consistent with the
requirements of this zoning chapter;
      (2)   To erect a building or other structure in any way not consistent
with the requirements of this zoning chapter;
      (3)   To install or use a sign in any way not consistent with the
requirements of this zoning chapter;
      (4)   To engage in the use of a building or land, the use or installation
of a sign, or any other activity requiring 1 or more permits or approvals under
this zoning chapter without obtaining such required permits or approvals;
      (5)   To engage in the use of a building or land, the use or installation
of a sign, or any other activity requiring 1 or more permits or approvals under
this zoning chapter in any way inconsistent with any such permit or approval or
any conditions imposed on the permit or approval;
      (6)   To violate the terms of any permit or approval granted under this
zoning chapter or any condition imposed on the permit or approval;
      (7)   To violate any lawful order issued by any person or entity under
this zoning chapter; or
      (8)   To continue any violation after receipt of notice of a violation.
   (C)   Continuing violations. Each week that a violation remains uncorrected
after receiving notice of the violation from the village constitutes a separate
violation of this zoning chapter.
   (D)   Remedies and enforcement powers. The village has all remedies and
enforcement powers allowed by law, including the following:
      (1)   Withhold permit.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator may deny or withhold permits,
certificates or other forms of authorization on any land or structure or
improvements upon which there is an uncorrected violation of a provision of
this zoning chapter or of a condition or qualification of a permit,
certificate, approval or other authorization previously granted by the village.
This enforcement provision may be used regardless of whether the current owner
or applicant is responsible for the violation in question.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator may deny or withhold all permits,
certificates or other forms of authorization on any land or structure or
improvements owned by or being developed by a person who owns, developed or
otherwise caused an uncorrected violation of a provision of this zoning chapter
or of a condition or qualification of a permit, certificate, approval or other
authorization previously granted by the village. This enforcement provision may
be used regardless of whether the property for which the permit or other
approval is sought is the property in violation.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator may deny or withhold temporary use
permits on any land or structure or improvements owned or being developed by a
person who owns, developed or otherwise caused a violation of a previous
temporary use permit. Enforcement provision may be used regardless of whether
the property for which the temporary use permit sought is for the property on
which the previous violation occurred.
      (2)   Permits approved with conditions. Instead of withholding or denying
a permit or other authorization, the Zoning Administrator may grant such
authorization subject to the condition that the violation be corrected.
      (3)   Revoke permits.
         (a)   Any permit, certificate or other form of authorization required
under this zoning chapter may be revoked by the Zoning Administrator when the
Zoning Administrator determines:
            1.   That there is departure from the plans, specifications, or
conditions as required under terms of the permit;
            2.   That the development permit was procured by false
representation or was issued by mistake; or
            3.   That any of the provisions of this zoning chapter are being
violated.
         (b)   Written notice of revocation must be served upon the owner, the
owner’s agent or contractor, or upon any person employed on the building or
structure for which such permit was issued. If no persons can reasonably be
served with notice, the notice must be posted in a prominent location. After
delivery or posting of notice, no construction or development may proceed.
      (4)   Stop work. With or without revoking permits, the Zoning
Administrator may stop work on any building or structure on any land on which
there is an uncorrected violation of a provision of this zoning chapter or of a
permit or other form of authorization issued under the zoning chapter.
      (5)   Revoke plan or other approval. Where a violation of this zoning
chapter involves a failure to comply with approved plans or conditions to which
the approval of such plans was made subject, the Zoning Administrator may, upon
notice to the applicant and other known interested parties (including any
holders of building permits affected):
         (a)   Revoke the plan or other approval; or
         (b)   Condition its continuance on strict compliance with this zoning
chapter or the provision of security to ensure that construction is completed
in compliance with approved plans, or such other conditions as the Zoning
Administrator may reasonably impose.
      (6)   Injunctive relief. The village may seek an injunction or other
equitable relief in court to stop any violation of this zoning chapter or of a
permit, certificate or other form of authorization granted under the zoning
chapter.
      (7)   Forfeiture and confiscation of signs on public property. Any sign
installed or placed on public property, except in compliance with the
regulations of this zoning chapter, may be forfeited to the public and subject
to confiscation. In addition to other remedies and penalties of this section,
the village has the right to recover from the sign owner or person who placed
the sign, the full costs of sign removal and disposal.
      (8)   Abatement. The village may seek a court order in the nature of
mandamus, abatement, injunction or other action or proceeding to abate or
remove a violation or to otherwise restore the premises in question to the
condition in which they existed prior to the violation.
      (9)   Other penalties, remedies and powers. The village may seek such
other penalties as are provided by state law.
   (E)   Continuation of previous enforcement actions. Nothing in this zoning
chapter prohibits the continuation of previous enforcement actions, undertaken
by the village pursuant to previous valid ordinances and laws.
   (F)   Remedies cumulative. The remedies and enforcement powers established
in this zoning chapter are cumulative, and the village may exercise them in any
combination or order.
   (G)   Persons subject to penalties. The owner or tenant of any building,
structure, premises, or part thereof, and any architect, builder, contractor,
or agent, or other person who commits, participates in, assists in, or
maintains such violations may each be found guilty of a separate offense and be
subject to penalties, remedies and enforcement actions.
   (H)   Enforcement procedures.
      (1)   Non-emergency matters. In the case of violations of this zoning
chapter that do not constitute an emergency or require immediate attention, the
Zoning Administrator must give notice of the nature of the violation to the
property owner or to any other person who is party to the agreement or to any
applicant for any relevant permit in the manner stated in this section, after
which the persons receiving notice have 10 days to correct the violation before
further enforcement action may be taken. Notice must be given in person, by
U.S. mail, or by posting notice on the premises. Notices of violation must
state the nature of the violation and the time period for compliance and may
state the corrective steps necessary and the nature of subsequent penalties and
enforcement actions should the situation not be corrected.
      (2)   Emergency matters. In the case of violations of this zoning chapter
that constitute an emergency situation as a result of public health or safety
concerns or violations that will create increased problems or costs if not
remedied immediately, the village may use the enforcement powers available
under this zoning chapter without prior notice, but the Zoning Administrator
must attempt to give notice simultaneously with beginning enforcement action.
Notice may be provided to the property owner, to any other person who is party
to the agreement and to applicants for any relevant permit.
      (3)   Appeals. Enforcement actions taken by the Zoning Administrator may
be appealed by the affected party to the Planning and Zoning Commission in
accordance with §
151.205.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 14.12, passed 6-23-2015)
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
§ 151.225 PURPOSE.
   Any use established after the effective date of this chapter shall be so
operated as to comply with the performance standards set forth hereinafter. No
use lawfully established on the effective date of this chapter shall be so
altered or modified as to conflict with or further conflict with the
performance standards established.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 15.01, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.226 NOISE.
   (A)   Sound levels shall be measured with a sound level meter and associated
octave band filter manufactured according to the standards prescribed by the
United States of American Standards Institute. Measurements shall be made using
the flat network of the sound level meter. Impulsive type noises shall be
subject to the performance standards hereinafter prescribed provided that such
noises shall be capable of being accurately measured with such equipment.
Noises capable of being measured, for the purpose of this chapter, shall be
those noises which cause rapid fluctuations of the needle of the sound level
meter with a variation of no more than plus or minus 2 decibels. Noises
incapable of being so measured, such as those of an irregular and intermittent
nature, shall be controlled so as not to become a nuisance to adjacent uses.
   (B)   At no point either on the boundary of a residence district or a
business district or at 125 feet from the nearest property line of a plant or
operation, whichever distance is greater, shall the sound pressure level of an
individual operation or plant (other than the operation of motor vehicles and
other transportation facilities) exceed the decibel levels at the designated
octave bands:
Octave Band       Maximum Permitted Sound Level in Decibels
Cycles Per Second Boundaries or 125 Feet from Plant or Operation Property Line
                  Residence Districts Business Districts
Octave Band       Maximum Permitted Sound Level in Decibels
Cycles Per Second Boundaries or 125 Feet from Plant or Operation Property Line
                  Residence Districts Business Districts
0 to 75           74                  81
75 to 150         61                  70
150 to 300        54                  63
300 to 600        48                  59
600 to 1,200      45                  55
1,200 to 2,400    41                  52
2,400 to 4,800    38                  50
4,800 and over    36                  48
 
(Ord. 2015-08, § 15.02, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.227 SMOKE AND PARTICULATE MATTER.
   (A)   No stack shall emit more than 10 smoke units during any 1 hour, nor
shall smoke of a density in excess of Ringelmann No. 2 be emitted, provided
that during a single 1-hour period in each 24 hour day each stack may emit up
to 20 smoke units when blowing soot or cleaning fires, and during such cleaning
of fires, smoke of a density of Ringelmann No. 3 may be emitted, but not for
longer than 4 minutes each period.
   (B)   No emission of smoke or particulate matter shall exceed a density of
Ringelmann No. 3, except for a plume consisting entirely of condensed steam.
For the purpose of grading the density of emission, the Ringelmann Chart
published and used by the United States Bureau of Mines shall be employed.
   (C)   The rate of emission of particulate matter from sources within the
boundaries of any lot shall not exceed a net figure of 1 pound per acre of lot
area during any 1 hour.
   (D)   Dust and other forms of air pollution borne by the wind from such
sources as storage areas, roads and so forth, within lot boundaries shall be
kept to a minimum by appropriate landscaping, paving, oiling, or other
acceptable means. The emission of particulate matter from such sources shall
conform to the requirements of division (C) above.
   (E)   In addition to the performance standards specified herein, the
emission of smoke or particulate matter in such manner or quantity as to be
detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, comfort or welfare is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 15.03, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.228 ODOROUS MATTER.
   The emission of odorous matter from any property in such concentrations as
to be readily detectable at any point along the boundaries of said property or
in such concentrations as to create a public nuisance or hazard beyond such
boundaries is prohibited.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 15.04, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.229 VIBRATION.
   Any process or equipment which produces intense earth-shaking vibrations –
such as are created by heavy drop forges or heavy hydraulic surges – shall be
set back at least 500 feet from the property boundaries on all sides, except
for a property line adjoining an I-2 District, where such setback shall not be
mandatory. However, in no case shall such vibrations be allowed to create a
public nuisance or hazard beyond the property boundaries.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 15.05, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.230 TOXIC OR NOXIOUS MATTER.
   No use on any property shall discharge across the boundaries of said
property toxic or noxious matter in such concentrations as to be detrimental to
or endanger the public health, safety, comfort or welfare or cause injury or
damage to other property business.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 15.06, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.231 GLARE OR HEAT.
   Any operation producing intense glare of heat shall be performed within a
completely enclosed building and effectively screened in such a manner as not
to create a public nuisance or hazard along property boundaries. Exposed
sources of light shall be shielded so as not to create a nuisance across lot
lines.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 15.07, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.232 FIRE AND EXPLOSIVE HAZARDS.
   Fire and explosive hazards shall be controlled as follows:
   (A)   Activities involving the storage or manufacture of materials or
products which decompose by detonation are not permitted.
   (B)   The storage, utilization or manufacture of materials ranging from
incombustible to moderate burning – as determined by the Zoning Administrator –
is permitted.
   (C)   Storage, utilization or manufacture of materials or products ranging
from free or active burning to intense burning – as determined by the Zoning
Administrator – is permitted under the following:
      (1)   All storage, utilization or manufacture of such materials, or
products, shall be within completely enclosed buildings or structures having
incombustible exterior walls; and
      (2)   All such buildings or structures shall be set back at least 40 feet
from property boundaries or, in lieu thereof, shall be protected throughout by
an automatic sprinkler system complying with standards for installation
prescribed by the National Fire Protection Association.
   (D)   Materials or products which produce flammable or explosive vapors or
gases under ordinary weather temperatures shall not be permitted in this
district, with the exception of the following, which are permitted:
      (1)   Materials required for emergency or standby equipment;
      (2)   Materials used in secondary processes which are auxiliary to a
principal operation, such as spraying of finishes; and
      (3)   Flammable liquids and oils stored, sold and used in conjunction
with the operation of any automobile service station and customarily required
or used in such operation.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 15.08, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.233 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Compliance. Should the Zoning Administrator determine that the
proposed use may violate the performance standards set forth herein, the Zoning
Administrator shall require information from the owner or operator and initiate
an investigation.
      (1)   Should such additional data be required, the Zoning Administrator
shall request information including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Plans of the existing or proposed construction and development.
         (b)   A description of the existing or proposed machinery, processes
and products.
         (c)   Specifications for the mechanisms and techniques used or
proposed to be used in restricting the possible emission of any dangerous and
objectionable elements as set forth in this subchapter.
         (d)   Measurements of the amount or rate of emission of said dangerous
and objectionable elements.
      (2)   Failure to submit data requested by the Zoning Administrator shall
constitute grounds for denying a permit of compliance.
   (B)   Report by expert consultants. The Zoning Administrator may require any
person to retain an expert consultant or consultants to study and report as to
compliance or non-compliance with performance standards, and to advise how a
proposed use can be brought into compliance with performance standards. The
cost of the consultant’s services shall be borne by the owner or operator of
said use.
   (C)   Action by the Zoning Administrator. Within 90 days following the
receipt of the acquired evidence, or receipt of the reports of appointed
consultants, the Zoning Administrator shall make a determination as to
compliance or non-compliance with the performance standards. The Zoning
Administrator may require modification or alterations in the existing or
proposed construction or the operational procedures to ensure that compliance
with the performance standards will be maintained.
   (D)   Cancellation of permits. If, after the conclusion of the time granted
for compliance with the performance standards, the Zoning Administrator finds
the violation is still in existence, any compliance permits previously issued
shall be void and the operator shall be required to cease operation until the
violation is remedied.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 15.09, passed 6-23-2015)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS (PUD)
§ 151.245 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The PUD, planned unit development regulations are intended to
accommodate development that provides public benefits but that may be difficult
if not impossible to carry out under otherwise applicable zoning and
subdivision regulations.
   (B)   Examples of the types of developments that are appropriate for
approval through the PUD regulations include the following:
      (1)   Enhanced protection of natural resource areas. Developments that
offer enhanced protection of natural resources and sensitive environmental
features, including streams, water bodies, floodplains, wetlands, woodlands,
wildlife habitats and native plant communities.
      (2)   Traditional urban development. Developments characterized by lot
configurations, street patterns, streetscapes, and neighborhood amenities
commonly found in neighborhoods platted or otherwise created before the 1950s.
      (3)   Mixed-use development. Developments that contain a complementary
mix of residential and nonresidential uses.
      (4)   Sustainability. Developments that incorporate sustainable (“green”)
building and development practices, as evidenced by attainment of LEED
“certified,” “silver,” “gold” or “platinum” status.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 16.01, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.246 OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Different types of PUDs will promote different planning goals.
   (B)   In general, however, PUDs are intended to promote the following
objectives:
      (1)   Implementation of and consistency with the village’s adopted plans
and policies, including the Comprehensive Plan;
      (2)   Flexibility and creativity in responding to changing social,
economic and market conditions allowing greater public benefits than could be
achieved using conventional zoning and subdivision regulations;
      (3)   High levels of energy conservation and environmental
sustainability;
      (4)   Advancement of economic opportunity and social equity;
      (5)   Variety in housing types and sizes to accommodate households of all
ages, sizes, incomes and lifestyle choices;
      (6)   Compact, mixed-use development patterns where residential,
commercial, civic, and open spaces are located in close proximity to one
another;
      (7)   A coordinated transportation system that includes an inter-
connected hierarchy of facilities for pedestrians, bicycles, and vehicles;
      (8)   Compatibility of buildings and other improvements as determined by
their arrangement, massing, form, character and landscaping;
      (9)   The incorporation of open space amenities and natural resource
features into the development design;
      (10)   Stormwater BMPs (best management practices); and
      (11)   Attractive, high-quality landscaping, lighting, architecture and
signage that reflect the unique character of the development.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 16.02, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.247 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Unified control. The site must be under single ownership and/or
unified control at the time of final plat approval.
   (B)   Streets. Minimum right-of-way widths of 50 feet are required.
   (C)   Developer’s statement of intent. Each PUD application must include a
written explanation from the applicant describing the overall community
benefits of the proposed development and how the proposed development provides
greater benefits to the village than would a development carried out in
accordance with otherwise applicable zoning and subdivision regulations.
   (D)   Approval criteria. A PUD may be approved only when the Village Board
determines that the proposed PUD would result in a greater benefit to the
village than would development under conventional zoning regulations. Such
greater benefit may include implementation of adopted planning policies,
natural resource preservation, urban design, neighborhood/community amenities
or an overall level of development quality.
   (E)   Regulations eligible for waiver of modification. Unless otherwise
expressly approved by the Village Board as part of the PUD approval process,
PUDs are subject to all applicable regulations of this zoning chapter and the
Subdivision Ordinance. The Village Board is authorized to approve PUDs that
deviate from strict compliance with specified regulations and standards if they
determine that the resulting development satisfies the approval criteria of
division (D) of this section.
   (F)   Conditions and guarantees. Before approving a PUD, the Planning and
Zoning Commission may recommend, and the Village Board may impose conditions
and restrictions upon the establishment, location, design, layout, height,
density, construction, maintenance, aesthetics, operation and other elements of
the planned unit development deemed necessary for the protection of the public
interest, improvement of the development, protection of the adjacent area, and
ensure compliance with applicable regulations and standards. The Village Board
may require such evidence and guarantees as it deems necessary to ensure
ongoing compliance with conditions stipulated in the approved PUD.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 16.03, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.248 RESIDENTIAL DENSITY.
   (A)   Facility and service adequacy. Before approving any density increase,
the Village Board must determine that the increased density can be supported by
existing and planned public facilities and services.
   (B)   General public benefit. The maximum allowable residential density of
the subject zoning district may be increased by up to 10% above the maximum
density allowed by the subject zoning district if the Village Board determines
that such an increase is warranted to support the public benefit likely to
result from the proposed development.
   (C)   Sustainability.
      (1)   If the developer commits to attainment of Leadership in Energy and
Environmental Design – Neighborhood Development (LEED-ND) certification or an
equivalent or higher level of sustainability as certified by a village-approved
accreditation organization, the Village Board may allow the maximum residential
density of the subject zoning district to be increased above the maximum
density allowed by the subject zoning district, in accordance with the
following table.
 
LEED Certification Level Maximum Allowable Density Increase
Certified                10%
Silver                   15%
Gold                     20%
Platinum                 25%
 
      (2)   Because sustainable or “green” project certifications cannot occur
until after development is completed, any density bonuses granted must be based
on the developer’s good faith commitment to achievement of the applicable
sustainability level.
         (a)   The developer (applicant) must submit a binding letter of intent
that communicates his or her commitment to achievement of the required
sustainability level.
         (b)   The village will then issue subsequent approvals based on this
commitment.
         (c)   A letter of credit, other village-approved financial guarantee
or other reliable method must be established by the Village Board at the time
of approval to ensure ultimate compliance with the required sustainability
level.
         (d)   Any forfeited financial guarantees and all penalties collected
must be contributed to a green building fund dedicated to supporting market
adoption of green building practices.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 16.04, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 151.249 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Overview. There are 2 types of planned unit developments (PUD):
      (1)   One that requires concurrent approval of a special use permit and
subdivision plat (because the property is being subdivided and is subject to
village subdivision regulations); and
      (2)   One that requires concurrent approval of a special use permit and a
development plan (because the property is not being subdivided and is subject
to village subdivision regulations).
   (B)   Approvals required. Approval of special use permits and preliminary
and final plats or development plans must occur before any building permit is
issued and before any development takes place in a PUD. Permits may be issued
for a development phase if a PUD preliminary plat or development plan has been
approved for the entire PUD and a PUD final plat or development plan has been
approved for the subject phase.
   (C)   Pre-application meeting. A pre-application meeting is required before
filing of a PUD preliminary plat or development plan application. See the
Subdivision Ordinance for information on pre-application meetings (§
153.015).
   (D)   Preliminary plats and development plans.
      (1)   Preliminary plats must be processed in accordance with the
preliminary plat procedures of the Subdivision Ordinance.
      (2)   Preliminary plans (for single lot PUDs and developments that are
not required to be subdivided) must be processed in a similar manner as
preliminary plats.
      (3)   Final approval of the preliminary plat or preliminary development
plan is contingent on approval of a special use permit for the PUD.
      (4)   The following information must be submitted with the preliminary
plat, unless waived by the Zoning Administrator based on a determination that
specific item of information are irrelevant to the subject application or that
a thorough and competent review of the application can be conducted without
receiving the specific information:
         (a)   Architectural plan. Preliminary architectural plans for all
principal buildings in sufficient detail to permit an understanding of the
style of the development, the design of the buildings, and the number, size,
type of dwelling units, location, and height, except for single-family
structures proposed to be constructed in compliance with the applicable zoning
district structural requirements.
         (b)   Plan compliance. Demonstration that the PUD will conform with
the intent and spirit of the Village Comprehensive Plan.
         (c)   School impact analysis. Information on the student count and
financial impact on local school districts.
         (d)   Tax impact analysis. Information on the taxes to be generated by
the proposed project and the cost for the various taxing bodies to provide the
necessary services (commonly referred to as a fiscal impact analysis).
         (e)   Traffic study. A traffic study of the impact of the proposed
development on the village’s roadway system.
         (f)   Economic feasibility. An economic feasibility study of the
proposed development, including information on land utilization and marketing
potential.
         (g)   Objectives. A statement of objectives to be achieved by the PUD.
This statement should include a description of the character of the proposed
development and the rationale behind the assumptions and choices of the
developer.
         (h)   Character. Explanation of the character of the PUD and the
manner in which it has been planned to take advantage of the flexibility of
these regulations and referencing the specific public benefits that will be
provided if the PUD is approved.
         (i)   Ownership. Statement of present and proposed ownership of all
land within the project, including present tract designation according to
official records in offices of the County Recorder of Deeds. The site must be
under single ownership and/or unified control at the time of final plat
approval.
         (j)   Schedule. A development schedule indicating:
            1.   Stages in which the project will be built with emphasis on
area, density, use, and public facilities such as open space to be developed
with each stage. Overall design of each stage must be shown on the plat/plan
and through supporting graphic material.
            2.   Approximate dates for beginning and completion of each stage.
            3.   If different land use types are to be included within the PUD,
the schedule must include the mix of uses to be built in each stage.
         (k)   Covenants. Proposed agreements, provisions, or covenants that
will govern the use, maintenance, and continued protection of the PUD.
         (l)   Density. Data on the density (including density bonuses) of
residential uses, including the number of dwelling units per acre, the number
of dwelling units by type, the number of buildings by type, and the number of
bedrooms in each building and dwelling unit type.
         (m)   Nonresidential and common open space. Information on the type
and amount of ancillary and nonresidential use, including the amount of common
open space, if applicable.
         (n)   Service facilities. Information on all service facilities and
off-street parking facilities.
   (E)   Special use permit. Special use approval for the PUD is required, in
accordance with the procedures of §
151.209. A (tentatively) approved preliminary plat or preliminary development
plan must be submitted as evidence before the Planning and Zoning Commission at
the required public hearing. Proposed aspects of the project that do not comply
with village regulations must also be identified at or before the hearing.
Departure from any requirement specified in this zoning chapter may be granted
only upon recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission and final
approval by the Village Board. Special use permits for PUDs may be approved
only if the proposed development is found to comply with PUD regulations of
this section.
   (F)   Improvement plans. Improvement plans for PUDs involving the
subdivision of land must be approved in accordance with the Subdivision
Ordinance.
   (G)   Final plat and development plan.
      (1)   Final plats must be processed in accordance with the final plat
procedures of the Subdivision Ordinance.
      (2)   Final plans (for single lot PUDs and developments that are not
required to be subdivided) must be processed in a similar manner as final
plats.
      (3)   All common open space must be conveyed to a not-for-profit
corporation or entity established for the purpose of benefitting the owners and
residents of the PUD, or retained by the developer with legally binding
guarantees, in a form approved by the village’s Attorney, verifying that the
common open space will be permanently preserved as open area. All land conveyed
to a not-for-profit corporation or like entity is subject to the right of the
entity to impose a legally enforceable lien for maintenance and improvements of
the common open space.
   (H)   Amendments.
      (1)   Major amendments. Major amendments may be approved only through the
procedure required for approval of the PUD. Major amendments are those that
materially alter the approved PUD, including increases in density, increases in
overall building coverage, substantial change of use or traffic circulation
pattern, reductions in off-street parking and loading spaces, increases in the
height of buildings (other than changes in roof design), reduction of proposed
open space, changes in total bedroom count, substantial changes in the
development schedule, changes in road standards, or changes in the final
governing agreements, provisions, or covenants.
      (2)   Minor amendments. The Zoning Administrator is authorized to approve
minor amendments that do not involve engineering issues. The Village Engineer
has authority to approve minor amendments that involve engineering issues.
Minor amendments are those that are not classified as major amendments and that
do not, in the determination of the Zoning Administrator or Village Engineer,
materially alter the approved PUD in a way that is likely to result in
significant impacts on surrounding property.
(Ord. 2015-08, § 16.05, passed 6-23-2015)
APPENDIX A: PLANT MATERIALS
   (A)   Overstory trees.
Recommended Overstory Trees*
Botanical Name Common Name
Recommended Overstory Trees*
Botanical Name                      Common Name
Acer nigrum var.                    Black Maple
Acer rubrum var.                    Red Maple
Acer saccharum var.                 Sugar Maple
Aesculus glabra                     Ohio Buckeye
Carya ovata                         Shagbark Hickory
Celtis occidentalis                 Hackberry
Corylus columa                      Turkish Filbert
Ginko biloba (male only)            Maidenhair Tree
Gleditsia triancanthos inermis var. Thornless Honeylocust
Gymnocladus dioicus                 Kentucky Coffetree
Juglans nigra                       Walnut
Liriodendrin tulipifera             Tuliptree
Ostrya virginiana                   Ironwood
Plantanus acerifolia                London Planetree
Plantanus ocidentalis               Sycamore
Pyrus calleryana                    Callery Pear
Quercus alba                        White Oak
Quercus bicolor                     Swamp White Oak
Quercus ellipsoldalis               Hill’s Oak
Quercus imbricaria                  Shingle Oak
Quercus macrocarpa                  Bur Oak
Quercus muehlenbergii               Chickapin Oak
Quercus palustris                   Pin Oak
Quercus robur                       English Oak
Quercus rubra                       Red Oak
Quercus velutina                    Black Oak
Syringa reticulate                  Japanese Tree Lilac
Taxodium distichum                  Bald Cypress
Tilia americana                     American Linden
Tilia cordata var.                  Littleleaf Linden
Tilia euchlora “Redmond”        Redmond Linden
Tilia vulgaris                      European Linden
Tilia tomentosa                     Sterling Silver Linden
Ulmus var.                          Elm (newer hybrids)
* Certain species may not be recommended from time to time due to current
biological threats or other recognized industry practices
 
   (B)   Understory trees.
Recommended Understory Trees*
Botanical Name Common Name
Recommended Understory Trees*
Botanical Name                 Common Name
Alnus glutinosa                European Black Alder
Amelanchier canadensis         Shadow Serviceberry
Amelanchier grandiflora        Apple Serviceberry
Amelanchier laevis             Allegheny Serviceberry
Amelanchier sanguinea          Juneberry
Betula nigra var.              River Birch
Betula platyphyllis japonicum  Whitespire birch
Carpinus caroliniana           American Hornbeam
Corylus cornuta                Havelnut Thornless
Crataegus crus-galli inermis   Cockspur Hawthorne
Crataegus phaenopyrum          Washington Hawthorne
Crataegus viridis              Winter King Hawthorne
Magnolia x lobneri “MerrillMerrill Loebner Magnolia
Magnolia soulangeana           Saucer Magnolia
Magnolia stellata              Star Magnolia
Malus “prairiefire”        Prairiefire Crab
Malus “redjewel”           Red Jewel Crab
Pyrus calleryana “ChanticleerChanticleer Pear
Syringa reticulate             Japanese Tree Lilac
* Certain species may not be recommended from time to time due to current
biological threats or other recognized industry practices
 
   (C)   Parkway trees.
Recommended Parkway Trees*
Botanical Name Common Name
Recommended Parkway Trees*
Botanical Name                       Common Name
Acer x freemanii                     Autumn Blaze
Acer nigrum var.                     Marmo Black Maple
Acer platanoides “Emerald Queen” Emerald Queen Maple
Acer rubrum var.                     Red Maple
Acer saccharum var.                  Sugar Maple (for parkway >10 ft.)
Carya ovata                          Shagbark Hickory
Celtis occidentalis                  Hackberry
Corylus colurna                      Turkish Filbert
Ginko biloba (male only)             Maidenhair Tree
Gleditsia triancanthos inermis var.  Thornless Honeylocust
Gymnocladus dioicus                  Kentucky Coffetree
Ostrya virginiana                    Ironwood
Plantanus acerifolia or occidentalis London Plan Tree or Sycamore
Pyrus calleryana “Chanticleer”   Chanticleer Pear
Quercus alba                         White Oak
Quercus bicolor                      Swamp White Oak
Quercus ellipsoldalis                Hill’s Oak
Quercus imbricaria                   Shingle Oak
Quercus rubra                        Red Oak
Quercus velutina                     Black Oak
Syringa reticulate                   Japanese Tree Lilac
Tilia americana                      American Linden
Tilia cordata var.                   Littleleaf Linden
Tilia euchlora “Redmond”         Redmond Linden
Tilia tomentosa                      Sterling Silver Linden
Ulmus var                            Elm (newer hybrids)
* Certain species may not be recommended from time to time due to current
biological threats or other recognized industry practices
 
   (D)   Evergreen trees.
Recommended Evergreen Trees*
Botanical Name Common Name
Recommended Evergreen Trees*
Botanical Name        Common Name
Abies concolor        White Fir
Juniperus virginiana  Eastern Red Cedar
Picea abies           Norway Spruce
Picea glauca          White Spruce
Picea gluaca densata  Black Hills Spruce
Picea omorika         Serbian Spruce
Picea pungens         Colorado Green Spruce
Picea P. “Gluaca” Colorado Blue Spruce
Pinus flexilus        Limber Pine
Pinus ponderosa       Ponderosa Pine
Pinus strobus         Eastern White Pine
Pinus sylvestris      Scotch Pine
Pseudtotsuga meniesii Douglas Fir
Taxodium distichum    Bald Cypress
Tsuga canadensis      Canadian Hemlock
* Certain species may not be recommended from time to time due to current
biological threats or other recognized industry practices
 
   (E)   Preservation trees.
Recommended Preservation Trees*
Botanical Name Common Name
Recommended Preservation Trees*
Botanical Name                 Common Name
Aesculus species               Buckeye/Horse Chestnut
Acer rubrum                    Red Maple
Acer saccharum                 Sugar Maple
Carpinus caroliniana           Blue Beech
Carya var.                     Hickory
Celtis occidentalis            Hackberry
Fraxinus americana var.        White Ash
Gymnocladus dioicus            Kentucky Coffeetree
Juglans nigra                  Walnut
Ostrya virginiana              Ironwood
Plantanus occidentalis         Sycamore
Quercus (all except palustris) Oaks (all except Pine Oak)
Taxodium distichum             Bald Cypress
Tilia americana                American Linden
* Certain species may not be recommended from time to time due to current
biological threats or other recognized industry practices
 
   (F)   Stormwater detention/retention trees.
Recommended Stormwater Detention/Retention Trees*
Botanical Name Common Name
Recommended Stormwater Detention/Retention Trees*
Botanical Name               Common Name
Acer rubrum                  Red Maple
Acer saccharum               Sugar Maple
Alnus glutinosa              European Alder
Alnus rugosa                 Speckled Alder (native)
Betala nigra                 River Birch
Carpinus caroliniana         Blue Beech
Carya ovata                  Shagbark Hickory
Crataegus crus-galli inermis Thornless Hawthorne
Gymnocladus dioicus          Kentucky Coffeetree
Juglans nigra                Black Walnut
Platanus occidentalis        Sycamore Swamp
Quercus bicolor              White Oak
Quercus rubra                Red Oak
Taxodium distichum           Bald Cypress
* Certain species may not be recommended from time to time due to current
biological threats or other recognized industry practices
 
   (G)   Unacceptable trees.
Unacceptable Trees
Botanical Name Common Name
Unacceptable Trees
Botanical Name           Common Name
Acer ginnala             Amur Maple
Acer negundo             Box Elder
Acer platanoides         Norway Maple
Acer pseudoplatanus      Sycamore Maple
Acer saccharinum         Silver Maple
Ailanthus altissima      Tree of Heaven
Betula papyrifera        Paper/white Birch
Cercidiphyllum japonicum Katsura
Elaegnus angustifolia    Russian Olive
Frangula alnus           Glossy Buckthorn
Fraxinus Var.            Ash
Ginko biloba (female)    Female Ginko
Maclura pomifera         Osage Orange, Hedge Apple
Moris alba               White Mulberry
Pinus nigra              Austrian Pine
Populus spp.             Poplars, Cottonwoods
Prunus spp.              Aspen Cherries, Plums
Rhamnus spp.             Buckthorns
Salix spp.               Willows
Ulmus                    Elms (other than newer hybrids)
 
(Ord. 2015-08, § 17.01, passed 6-23-2015)
CHAPTER 152: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
   
152.01   Stormwater management regulations adopted
   
152.02   Application of regulations for portions of village in Grundy County
§ 152.01 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
    The Will County Stormwater Management Ordinance, as amended on November 15,
2018 to include the Federal Emergency Management Agency Flood Insurance Rate
Maps for Will County, Illinois which are effective February 15, 2019, is hereby
adopted by reference and is in full force and effect within the Village of
Diamond and shall be treated as if set forth in full herein. At least one copy
of the Stormwater Management Ordinance has been and is now filed in the office
of the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 1-22-2019)
§ 152.02 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS FOR PORTIONS OF VILLAGE IN GRUNDY COUNTY.
   For the areas within the Village not in Will County, the regulations of the
Will County Stormwater Management Ordinance shall be enforced and administered
by the village.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 1-22-2019)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Title
   
153.002   Intent
   
153.003   Scope
   
153.004   Variations
   
153.005   Permits
   
153.006   Definitions
   
153.007   Public use areas
Procedure for Approval of Preliminary Plat
   
153.015   Submittal
   
153.016   Distribution
   
153.017   Qualifications governing approval
Procedure for Approval of Final Plat
   
153.030   Application
   
153.031   Approval by parts
   
153.032   Qualifications governing final approval
Vacation of a Plat
   
153.040   Vacation of a plat of subdivision
Design Standards
   
153.045   Street layout and design
   
153.046   Sidewalk and pedestrian ways
   
153.047   Easements
   
153.048   Block standards
   
153.049   Lot standards
Other Regulations
   
153.060   Floodplain regulations
   
153.061   Erosion and sedimentation control measures
Site Development Permits
   
153.070   Permit required
   
153.071   Permit not required
   
153.072   Application
   
153.073   Utilities
   
153.074   Review; approval
   
153.075   Appeals
   
153.076   Responsibility
   
153.077   Expiration of permit
   
153.078   Inspections
   
153.079   Fees
   
153.080   Exceptions
   
153.081   Special precautions
   
153.082   Nuisances
Resubdivision of Land; Upgrading of Existing Improvements
   
153.095   Resubdivision
   
153.096   Upgrading existing improvements
Design Standards for Subdivision Improvements
   
153.110   General requirements
   
153.111   Public utilities
   
153.112   Street pavement standards
   
153.113   Sidewalks and pedestrian ways
   
153.114   Trench construction
   
153.115   Right-of-way improvements
   
153.116   Water distribution system
   
153.117   Sanitary sewer system
   
153.118   Stormwater drainage
   
153.119   Street lighting
Improvement Procedures
   
153.130   Procedure for approval of design of improvements
   
153.131   Subdivision improvement security
   
153.132   Acceptance and approval of required improvements
Park Dedication
   
153.145   Dedication of parks or payment of cash in lieu thereof
   
153.146   Criteria for requiring park and recreational land dedication
   
153.147   Time of conveyance or payment
   
153.148   Criteria for requiring cash contribution in lieu of park and
recreation sites
   
153.149   Reservation of additional land
   
153.150   Combining with adjoining development
   
153.151   Improved sites
   
153.152   Shape, topography and grading
   
153.153   Sale of exchange of dedicated park
   
153.154   Objections
Water and Sewer Acreage and Impact Fees
   
153.170   Purpose and authority
   
153.171   Fee assessment
Enforcement; Penalties
   
153.995   Non-conforming work
   
153.996   Revocation or suspension of permit
   
153.997   Civil action
   
153.998   Enforcement
   
153.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Application Fees for Land Development
   
Appendix B: Final Plat Certificates
   
Appendix C: Unincorporated Areas Final Plat Certificates
   
Appendix D: Final Plat Certificates for Areas Within Corporate Boundaries
   
Appendix E: Sample Irrevocable Letter of Credit
   
Appendix F: Water Distribution System Material Specifications List
Cross-reference:
   Construction of public utilities in rights-of-way, see
Ch. 158
   Floodplain regulations, see
Ch. 155
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 90
   Sanitary sewers, see §
50.01
   Water, see
Ch. 52
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the
Subdivision and Site Development Ordinance of the Village of Diamond.
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-13-1996; Am. Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord.
2021-03, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 153.002 INTENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The Village of Diamond Subdivision and Site Development
Regulations (hereinafter the "regulations") is to provide the minimum
requirements for land development that will lead to a well-planned community
environment, adequate municipal utilities, easily maintained streets, and sound
development of the Village of Diamond.
   (B)   Application. These regulations shall apply to each of the following if
located within the corporate limits of the Village of Diamond or within 1-1/
2 mile thereof and not included within another municipality:
      (1)   Subdivisions and re-subdivisions of land;
      (2)   Planned developments;
      (3)   Development or redevelopment of a lot, tract or parcel of record
and involving:
         (a)   The construction of a new principal building or structure, other
than a single-family residence;
         (b)   The expansion of an existing principal building or structure, is
increased by 50% or more;
         (c)   The renovation or alteration of an existing principal building
or structure, other than a single-family residence, where the value of the work
exceeds 50% or more of the fair cash value of the property as determined for
real estate tax purposes;
         (d)   A change in the principal land use from agricultural to
nonagricultural; or
         (e)   A change in the principal land use to include the outdoor
storage of inventory or equipment, other than farm equipment used on-site for
farming operations, including, but not limited to, containers, trailer, motor
vehicles, motor vehicle parts, tires, railcars, special, hazardous or solid
waste, recyclables, landscape waste, aggregate materials, stockpiles.
   (C)   Exceptions. Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to require any
change in the plats, site plans, construction or designated use of any land or
structure in the event that:
      (1)   Final plat or site plan approval for such subdivision or
development was lawfully issued prior to the effective date of this chapter, or
the effective date of any amendment thereof;
      (2)   Such approval has not by its own terms expired prior to such
effective date;
      (3)   Such approval was issued on the basis of an application showing
complete plans for proposed construction;
      (4)   There has been a substantial change of position, substantial
expenditures, or incurrence of substantial obligation by applicant in reliance
of such approval; and
      (5)   Construction pursuant to such approval is completed prior to the
expiration of such approval.
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-13-1996; Am. Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord.
2021-03, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 153.003 SCOPE.
   (A)   Jurisdiction. This chapter shall be considered as an implementation of
sound planning for the development of the village. The provisions of this
chapter shall apply to land situated within the corporate limits and to
territory within 1-1/2 mile beyond the corporate limits of the village as now
or hereafter existing which is not included in any other municipality, except
as such jurisdiction is limited by the provisions of the statutes of the State
of Illinois, or by agreement between the village and any other municipality.
   (B)   Interpretation.
      (1)   Where the conditions imposed by any provisions of this chapter are
either more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed
by any other provision of this chapter, or of any law, ordinance, resolution,
rule, or regulation of any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive or
which impose higher standards or requirements, shall govern.
      (2)   This chapter is not intended to abrogate any easement covenant, or
other private agreement; provided, however, that where the: regulations of this
chapter are more restrictive or impose higher standards or requirements than
such easements, covenants, or other private agreements, the requirements of
this chapter shall govern.
      (3)   A subdivision of land which was not lawfully existing at the time
of the adoption of this chapter shall not become or be made lawful solely by
reason of adoption of this chapter; and to the extent that the subdivision of
land is in any manner in conflict with the requirements of this chapter, the
subdivision of land shall remain, unlawful hereunder.
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-13-1996; Am. Ord. D99-5, passed 12-14-1999; Am. Ord.
2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 153.004 VARIATIONS.
   (A)   A planning and subdivision variance is a modification of the specific
requirements of the subdivision and site development ordinance granted for the
purpose of assuring that no property, because of special circumstances
applicable to it, shall be deprived of privileges commonly enjoyed by other
properties similarly located and zoned. Only in specific instances where the
application of the strict letter of the regulations of the Planning and
Subdivision create practical difficulties or particular hardship for the owner,
lessee, or occupant of land, buildings, or other structures, shall a planning
and subdivision variance be considered.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend variations from the
requirements of this chapter in specific cases which, in its opinion, do not
affect the general plan or the intent of this chapter.
      (1)   Requirements or standards for seeking a variance. A variance will
be approved by the Village Board upon recommendations by the Planning and
Zoning Commission only when it is determined that, in each specific case, the
evidence presented will support the following conclusions:
         (a)   If related to a required street improvement, state how the
potential future volume or type of traffic affecting the property in question
warrants a variation from this title.
         (b)   State how the topographic or soil conditions of the property in
question warrants a variation from this title.
         (c)   State how the strict application of any provision of this title
would result in peculiar and exceptional practical difficulties or particular
hardship upon the owner of property abutting upon an existing or proposed
street.
         (d)   Indicate how the property in question cannot yield a reasonable
return if permitted to be used only under the terms of this title, and where
the plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances, and where the
variation, if granted, would not alter the essential character of the area.
         (e)   State why proposed construction materials, different from those
enumerated herein and not approved by the Village Engineer, warrant a variation
from this title.
      (2)   Approval process. In order to have a variance request considered,
an application for the variance must be filed with the Zoning Administrator
along with a current plat of survey of the subject site, the required legal
documentation as outlined in the application and the appropriate filing fee.
The Planning and Zoning Commission shall review the application and determine
if the standards for variance, outlined above, have been met. The Planning and
Zoning Commission's finding of facts and recommendation will then be forwarded
to the Village Board for final action.
      (3)   The Village Board may approve variations from the requirements in
specific cases which in its opinion do not adversely affect the general plan or
the intent of this chapter.
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-13-1996; Am. Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord.
2021-03, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 153.005 PERMITS.
   (A)   Building permits. Before issuance of any building permits for the
improvement of lots within a subdivision or Planned Development, the
subdivider, builder or developer shall:
      (1)   File with the Zoning Administrator, the approved, recorded final
plat of subdivision.
      (2)   Completely and satisfactorily install functioning sanitary sewer
systems, storm sewer and water service to each lot and street paving with the
exception of the final pavement course.
   (B)   Occupancy permit. Before issuance of any certificate of occupancy, and
in addition to any other requirements of the village for certificates of
occupancy, the street lighting system shall be installed and functioning,
street identification signs and traffic control signs shall be installed, all
electrical, telephone and gas utility lines shall be installed, a hard-surface
driveway shall be installed together with adequate private hard-surfaced
parking areas to serve the structure(s) for which occupancy is sought, and the
parkway shall be finish graded.
(Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty,
see §
153.999
§ 153.006 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
   APPLICANT. The owner or contract purchaser of land proposed to be subdivided
or developed, or his or her legal representative, provided, however, that no
contract purchaser shall make any application hereunder without the written
consent of the then-owner of the property to which the application pertains.
Unless otherwise specifically required from the context, the term shall include
and/or may be used interchangeably with the terms DEVELOPER and SUBDIVIDER.
   BASE FLOOD. The base flood is having a 1% chance of being equaled or
exceeded, in any given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-YEAR
FLOOD.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The highest ground elevation which would be inundated
by the base flood according to the information provided on the maps outlined in
§
153.060.
   BUILDING CODE. The current adopted International Building Code, together
with such other amendments, revisions, supplements and modifications thereto
approved from time to time by the village.
   BUILDING PERMIT. A permit issued, by the Village of Diamond, Illinois for
the construction, erection or alteration of any structure or building lot.
   BUILDING SERVICE SEWER. A building service sewer is the private property
owner's sewer that connects a residential, commercial, or industrial building
with the sewer main.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. The distance from a property line, within which,
buildings or structures shall not be erected, exclusive of any encroachments
therein permitted hereunder or under the village Zoning Ordinance.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A permit issued by the Zoning Administrator which
allows for the occupancy of a new or remodeled home, commercial building or
industrial building. Occupancy of such buildings prior to receiving the
certificate of occupancy shall be considered a violation of this chapter.
   COMPENSATORY STORAGE. An artificially excavated volume of storage within a
floodplain used to balance the loss of natural flood storage capacity when
artificial fill is placed within the floodplain.
   CONCEPT PLAN. A preliminary sketch of a proposed development intended for
feasibility study purposes only. The conceptual drawing can include street and
lot configurations, estimated minimum and maximum lot size, public land
dedications, land use information and major natural features including
floodplain and floodway.
   CONSTRUCTION COST. The total cost of developing the subdivision or project,
excepting engineering, surveying or legal fees, and also excepting the cost of
the land and interest on borrowed money.
   CUL DE SAC. See STREET.
   DETENTION STORAGE. The temporary detaining or storage of storm water in
storage basins, on roof tops, in streets, parking lots, school yards, parks,
open spaces, or other areas under predetermined and controlled conditions with
the rate of drainage therefrom regulated by appropriately installed devices.
   DEVELOP. To alter terrain or vegetation, construct driveways, or perform any
other construction upon or making any other material changes in or to any land
or property.
   DEVELOPER. A person, group of persons, corporation, organizations, or other
entity whose object and desire is to improve land in accordance with the
regulations of the village. Unless otherwise specifically required from the
context, the term shall include and/or may be used interchangeably with the
terms APPLICANT and SUBDIVIDER.
   DRY BOTTOM DETENTION BASIN. A basin designed to be completely dewatered,
after having provided its planned detention of runoff during a storm event.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner of the use of land for a specific
purpose.
   ENGINEER. A currently registered professional engineer of the State of
Illinois.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL PLAN. A plan of the proposed site
development containing all erosion and sedimentation control measures needed to
provide protection throughout all phases of construction.
   EXCAVATION. Any act by which organic matter, earth, sand, gravel, rock, or
other similar material is cut into, dug, quarried, uncovered, removed,
displaced, relocated, or bulldozed and shall include the conditions resulting
therefrom.
   EXISTING GRADE. The elevation of the existing ground surface prior to
development, excavation, or filling.
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FILL. Any earth, sand, gravel, rock, or any other similar material that is
deposited, placed, dumped, transported, or moved by man to a new location.
   FINAL PLAT. A map or plat of a subdivision and any accompanying information
or documentation as described in §§
153.030 through
153.032.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry lands from the overflow of inland waters or the
unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The elevation of the base flood is plus 1 foot.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any area equal to or lower than the base flood elevation which
is susceptible to being inundated by water from any source and also shall
include any land of higher elevation having an area less than the minimum
residential lot size established for the zoning district in which it is located
and which is surrounded by lands having an elevation equal to or less than the
base flood elevation.
   FLOODPLAIN MAPS. Areas within the village which are designated as
floodplains on the maps referenced in §
153.060 which are incorporated herein by reference to the extent that those
maps cover territory within the village.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
improved real property, structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than 1/10 of a foot.
   FRONTAGE. All the property on 1 side of a street between 2 intersecting
streets (intersecting or terminating) measured along the line of the street, or
if the street is dead ended, then all property abutting on one side between an
intersecting street and the dead-end of the street.
   GRADIENT or PERCENT OF GRADE. The vertical rise in feet per 100 feet of
horizontal distance (for example, a 1% gradient or percent of grade is a rise
of 1 foot in 100 feet).
   HALF STREET. See STREET.
   HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATION, CONDOMINIUM ASSOCIATION, OR PROPERTY OWNERS'
ASSOCIATION. An organization or association established pursuant to an
agreement or declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions consisting
of persons owning or assuming responsibility for open spaces, recreational
facilities, detention/retention facilities, or other commonly owned facilities
or property within a planned development or other real estate development, the
membership of which includes the owners of property served or benefitted by
such commonly owned property or facilities.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Grading, street surfacing, pavement striping or marking, no-
access strips, off-street parking, lighting, signage, curbs, gutters,
sidewalks, water mains, fire hydrants, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, culverts,
trees, landscaping, utility fixtures and appurtenances, and other additions to
the natural state of the land which increases its value, utility, or
habitability in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      PRIVATE IMPROVEMENT. Any installed or constructed improvement for which
the responsibility of maintenance and ownership will be retained by the
property owner or other private entity or concern.
      PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any improvement constructed for the general use and
benefit of the public or any improvement intended to be dedicated to the
village or another public body.
   LAND SURVEYOR. Registered surveyor in the State of Illinois.
   LOT. A tract, plot, or portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land
intended as a unit for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of
ownership or for building development.
   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. See STREET.
   MINOR STREET. See STREET.
   OFFICIAL MAP. A village map or maps contained in the Comprehensive Plan
showing required arterial and collector streets, bike paths and trails,
potential park sites and proposed land use.
   ONE HUNDRED YEAR STORM. Rainstorms or rain events of varying durations or
intensities having a 1% probability of occurring in any 1 year.
   ONE HUNDRED YEAR STORM RUNOFF. The storm water runoff from a 100-year storm.
   OWNER. Includes the plural as well as the singular and may mean either a
natural person, firm, association, partnership, corporation, limited liability
company, or combination of any of them that individually or collectively holds
title to any parcel, tract, lot or other unit or area of property that is or is
intended to be the subject of an application hereunder.
   PARKWAY. That part of the public street right-of-way not occupied by the
street pavement and located between the back of the curb or the edge of the
street pavement and the property line, or the dividing strip of land between
parallel roadways.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A public right-of-way across a block, or providing access
within a block, to be used by pedestrians and for the installation of utility
lines. Includes but is not necessarily limited to SIDEWALK.
   PERMITTEE. Any applicant to whom a site development or other permit is
issued by the village.
   PERSON. Any natural person, firm, joint venture, incorporated association,
partnership, trust, land trust, limited liability company or corporation,
whether public or private, the State of Illinois and its agencies or political
subdivisions and the United States of America and its agencies or
instrumentalities, and any agent, servant, officer, or employee of any of the
foregoing.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. A planned development shall mean, a land development
project comprehensively planned as an entirety via a unitary site plan which
permits flexibility in building, mixture of housing types and land uses, usable
open spaces, and the preservation of significant natural features and for which
appropriate applications and submittal have been made under this chapter and
the village Zoning Ordinance.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. Shall mean the Village of Diamond Planning & Zoning
Commission.
   PLANT AND LANDSCAPING MATERIAL. Permanent vegetative cover including grass
seeding, lime and fertilizer application, mulching or any other soil
stabilization planting.
   PONDING. The existence of pockets or depressions which have no surface
drainage provided and, in the event of failure on the part of inlets or storm
sewers, will contain standing water. That portion of surface waters which are
flowing shall not be considered as PONDING.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. A tentative map or plan of a proposed subdivision as
described in §§
153.015 through
153.017 hereinafter and required supporting documents or submittals required
for preliminary approval of a proposed plat of subdivision.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. Any public board or entity created by authority of the
Illinois Compiled Statutes.
   RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS. Contracts, agreements or declarations restricting the
manner in which land may be used and recorded against the property to be bound
thereby with the appropriated County Recorder's Office.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a road,
sidewalk, bike path, railroad, electric transmission line, utility lines or
appurtenances, oil and gas pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer, or
for other special uses.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a public right-of-way paved or otherwise surfaced
which is intended for pedestrian use only.
   SITE. A lot or parcel of land or contiguous combination thereof, where
development work is performed as a single, unified operation.
   SITE DEVELOPMENT or DEVELOPMENT. Altering terrain or vegetation,
constructing driveways, or performing any other construction upon or making any
other material changes in or to any land or property.
   STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS. Refers to the current "Standard Specification for
Road and Bridge Construction," adopted by the State of Illinois Department of
Transportation, current edition, as well as the "Standard Specifications for
Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois," current edition as approved by
the State of Illinois or one of its agencies.
   STANDARDS. Specifications for the preparation of plans indicating, among
other things, the optimum, minimum, or maximum dimensions of such features as
right-of-way and blocks.
   STORM SEWER. A closed conduit for conveying collected storm water.
   STORM WATER RUNOFF. The water derived from precipitation within a tributary
drainage basin, flowing over the surface of the ground or collected in channels
or conduits.
   STREET. A public or private right-of-way for providing vehicular movements
over land providing access to individual lots or providing for through traffic.
A STREET includes the area within the right-of-way whether improved or
unimproved and includes, but is not limited to, curb and gutters, pavements,
and such improvements as sidewalks, drainage facilities, landscaping, and
street lighting. STREETS are designated on the street classification map in
accordance with the following definitions:
      ARTERIAL STREET. A public right-of-way with a high degree of traffic
continuity serving as an arterial traffic way between the various districts of
the village as shown on the official map.
      COLLECTOR STREET. A street which carries traffic from minor streets of
residential developments and the principal circulating streets within such
development.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A short local street having 1 open end, and being permanently
terminated at the other end, by a vehicular turnaround.
      HALF STREET. A street bordering 1 or more boundary lines of a tract of
land or parcel and which is only ½ of the required right-of way width.
      HIGHWAY. Any street designated by the state or federal government for
purposes of intrastate or interstate traffic.
      MARGINAL ACCESS STREET or FRONTAGE ROAD. A street which is parallel to
and contiguous with an arterial street and which provides access to abutting
properties and protection to local traffic from fast-moving through traffic on
the adjoining arterial street.
      MINOR RESIDENTIAL STREET. A street, other than an arterial street, or
collector street, which affords local access to abutting properties.
   STRUCTURE. For purposes of this chapter (and including but not limited to
floodplain regulation under this chapter and other applicable ordinances of the
village), any walled and roofed building, or a gas or liquid storage tank,
principally above ground. Additionally, for the purposes of this chapter,
anything erected, the use of which requires a more or less permanent location
on the ground or attached to something having a permanent location on the
ground, or which is the permanent result of any manmade change to the surface
or subsurface area of any parcel, lot or other unit of land. Without otherwise
limiting, restricting or modifying the foregoing, any sign, billboard, or other
advertising medium, freestanding or attached and having a gross surface area of
60 square feet or more shall be construed to be a STRUCTURE.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any natural person, firm, association, syndicate, corporation,
co-partnership, trust, or other legal entity commencing proceedings under this
chapter to affect a subdivision of land. Unless otherwise specifically required
from the context, the term shall include and/or may be used interchangeably
with the terms APPLICANT and DEVELOPER.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division, excepting a tax division, of a tract of land into
2 or more lots or parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership or
development or the construction of a building or structure. No SUBDIVISION
shall be made or permitted within the village without a plat thereof first
being made therefore by the owner, developer or subdivider, in accordance with
the requirements of this chapter, except that any such division or other action
which is exempt from the platting requirements of the Illinois Plat Act, ILCS
Ch. 765, Act 205, §§ 1 et seq. shall likewise be exempt from the platting
requirements of this chapter (but shall otherwise remain fully subject to the
requirements of this chapter to the maximum possible extent).
   VACANT. Land on which there are no structures or on which there are only
structures which are secondary to the use or maintenance of the land itself.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Diamond, Will and Grundy County, Illinois.
   VILLAGE BOARD. The Village Board of Commissioners of the Village of Diamond,
an Illinois municipal corporation.
   VILLAGE ENGINEER. A registered professional engineer or engineering firm
appointed by action of the Village Board.
   WET BOTTOM DETENTION BASIN. A basin designed to retain a permanent pool of
water after having provided its planned detention of runoff during a storm
event.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The current Zoning Ordinance of the village.
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-13-1996; Am. Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord.
2021-03, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 153.007 PUBLIC USE AREAS.
   When an area of land for public use (in addition to streets, alleys,
pedestrian ways, and utility easements) is recommended by the Planning
Commission and required by the Village Board to be located in whole or in part
in a subdivision, the subdivider shall designate on the preliminary plat and
final plat that such land is dedicated for public use.
(Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty,
see §
153.999
PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT
§ 153.015 SUBMITTAL.
   (A)   Concept plan. In order to discuss the general purpose of the
subdivision or development in the context of established planning policies and
practices of the village and to insure that required data is properly prepared
and presented before expending the time and money in preparation and review of
a preliminary plat, any person desiring to subdivide or develop land subject to
this chapter, before filing a preliminary plat, shall file a concept plan of
the subdivision, or development with the Zoning Administrator.
      (1)   The concept plan shall contain such information as suggested by the
Planning Commission in order to delineate the concept of the subdivision, or
development, adequately, including but not limited to, a plat of survey, a
topographical map, soil information, and a sketch of the proposed development
showing a road system and general land use categories.
      (2)   It may also include information describing the subdivision such as
the number of residential lots, typical lot width and depth, business areas,
playground and park areas, other public proposed restrictive covenants, and
proposed street and utilities improvements.
      (3)   The applicant may also request that he or she be placed on the
agenda of a regular Planning Commission meeting. Such request shall be made in
writing (e-mail acceptable) not less than 2 weeks prior to the next scheduled
meeting, and shall be accompanied by PDF copies of the concept plan and
supporting materials.
   (B)   Plat of subdivision. A proposed plat of subdivision shall be initially
submitted for preliminary approval by filing 3 "0" size and 1 PDF copy of the
preliminary plat with the Zoning Administrator.
      (1)   Preliminary plat requirements. Each preliminary plat shall contain
the following:
         (a)   Identification and description.
            1.   Proposed name of subdivision (not duplicating name of any
platted subdivision heretofore recorded in Grundy or Will County).
            2.   Location by township, section, town, and range or by other
legal description.
            3.   Names and addresses of all the owners and subdividers of the
tract, the name and signature of the owners' surveyor, and the name and
signature of the owners' engineer.
            4.   Graphic (engineering scale not smaller than 1 inch to 100
feet).
            5.   North point.
            6.   Date of preparation.
            7.   A signed statement by the person preparing the plat that the
plat meets the requirements of this chapter to the best of his or her
knowledge, or a request for variance to 1 or more requirements, which shall be
clearly set forth.
            8.   The zoning classification under the village, county or
abutting municipal zoning ordinances, the zoning of all surrounding land
indicating whether it is in the Village of Diamond, Grundy or Will County or
other municipalities.
         (b)   Existing conditions. Each preliminary plat shall show and
contain the following:
            1.   Boundary line of proposed subdivision clearly indicated.
            2.   Total acreage therein.
            3.   Location, width and names of all existing or previously
platted streets or other public ways showing type of improvement, if any,
railroad and utility rights-of-way, parks and other public open spaces,
permanent buildings and structures, easements, and section and corporation
lines within the tract and to a distance of 100 feet beyond the tract.
            4.   Location and size of existing sewers, water mains, culverts,
septic systems (including filter fields) or other underground facilities within
the tract and to a distance of 100 feet beyond the tract; also indicating such
data as grades, invert elevations, and locations of catch basins, manholes and
hydrants.
            5.   Boundary lines of adjoining un-subdivided or subdivided land,
within 100 feet, identifying by name and ownership.
            6.   Topographic data including contours at vertical intervals of
not more than 2 feet, except that contour lines shall be no more than 1 foot
wherever the natural slope of the land is less than 0.5%. Also to be shown are
water courses, marshes, rock outcrops, high water elevation including source of
information and other significant features. Soil boring information shall be
provided at location as depth where and as required by the Village Engineer.
            7.   Floodplain lines are to be delineated.
            8.   Farm drains, with inlets and outfalls, if any.
            9.   Location of existing corporate boundary lines at or near the
proposed subdivision.
            10.   A statement identifying each school district indicating the
school district(s) in which each tract, parcel, lot or block is located.
            11.   Written disclosure, if required, of the relationships between
the owner (including any developer/subdivider, contract purchaser, and
applicant, including such contact information for any or all of the foregoing
as may be requested by the village from time to time).
         (c)   Subdivision design features. The application for preliminary
plat approval shall show or contain the following:
            1.   The location, name and width of proposed streets, alleys, and
public ways. Street names shall not duplicate existing street names within the
village and any adjacent areas except in the case of extensions of existing
streets.
            2.   The proposed location of sewers and storm drains.
            3.   The proposed dedication of public grounds, if any, including
but not limited to park, school, fire station or library sites, as well as the
proposed creation of any proposed private common area intended to serve
multiple lots within the subdivision.
            4.   The layout, numbers, and typical dimensions of lots to the
nearest foot, including building setback lines.
            5.   A label on the lot, or within a table, indicating the area of
each lot.
            6.   Proposed easements for public utilities.
            7.   A statement of the proposed method of sewage and waste
disposal, storm water disposal, and water supply.
            8.   The proposed layout of water mains, valves, fire hydrants, and
other appurtenances.
            9.   Traffic and other impact studies, including but not limited to
school impact studies, tax impact studies, environmental impact studies, and
economic/feasibility studies, as and when requested by the village.
            10.   Density. Provide information on the gross area of each land
use sub-area, i.e., single-family, multi-family, commercial, and the like. For
residential sub-areas, the number of dwelling units and gross density contained
therein based on the ultimate development of the land. The sub-area boundaries
are to be clearly delineated. Floor area ratio should be provided for all units
over 30 feet in height.
         (d)   Restrictive covenants. Where applicable, an outline of the
proposed restrictive covenants shall accompany the preliminary plat. At a
minimum, such outline shall address ownership, management and operation of any
proposed private common areas, and demonstrate the manner in which the proposed
development shall comply with the applicable facade and anti-monotony
ordinances of the village.
      (2)   Fees. Shall be due and payable in accordance with the Fee Schedule
(
Appendix A), as adopted and amended by the Village Board, from time to time. At
the time of application/submittal of a preliminary plat or a plat of
annexation, a properly executed, signed professional fee agreement and a $5,000
deposit shall be delivered to the village, and the village shall have no
obligation to accept any application or submittal of a concept plan for a
preliminary plat or a plat of annexation where such an agreement and deposit
have not contemporaneously or previously been provided.
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-13-1996; Am. Ord. D99-4, passed 12-14-1999; Am. Ord.
2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord. 2007-29, passed 12-11-2007; Am. Ord. 2021-
03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.016 DISTRIBUTION.
   The Zoning Administrator, with whom the plat is filed, shall submit 11-foot
by 17-foot copies to each of the members of the Planning and Zoning Commission,
the Mayor and each Commissioner, and the Superintendent of the appropriate
school district and 1 "0" size copy and PDF of the preliminary plat to the
Village Engineer and Village Attorney.
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-13-1996; Am. Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord.
2021-03, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 153.017 QUALIFICATIONS GOVERNING APPROVAL.
   (A)   Qualifications.
      (1)   The Planning Commission may recommend, and the Village Board may
require, such conditions, changes or revisions as are deemed necessary to bring
the proposed subdivision into compliance with this chapter, the official map
and others applicable ordinances, codes or duly adopted-requirements of the
village, and may be required to protect and promote the general health, safety,
morals and welfare of the village and its residents.
      (2)   No plan will be approved for a subdivision which is subject to
flooding or which contains inadequate drainage facilities. However, if the
subdivider agrees to make improvements which will, in the opinion of the
Village Engineer, make the area safe for occupancy and provide adequate
drainage, the preliminary plat of the subdivision provided that such agreement
is documented in a manner satisfactory to the village in form and substance.
      (3)   Upon receipt of a preliminary plat, the Village Engineer shall
review the plat for general compliance with the overall requirements of the
village and shall return a copy, together with a recommendation, to the
Planning Commission and the Village Board.
   (B)   Actions by Planning Commission.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall recommend approval or disapproval of
the application for preliminary approval within 90 days from the date of the
application for preliminary approval or the filing by the applicant of the last
item of required supporting data, whichever date is later, unless such time is
extended by mutual consent.
      (2)   If such plat is disapproved, then within the 90 days the Planning
Commission shall furnish to the applicant, in writing, a statement setting
forth the reason or reasons for disapproval.
   (C)   Actions by Mayor and Village Board.
      (1)   After recommendation by the Planning Commission, the Mayor and
Village Board shall accept or reject the plat within 30 days after the next
regular meeting of the Village Board following approval by the Planning
Commission. If the Village Board fails to act within such time period, the
failure to act shall be deemed to be a denial of the preliminary plat.
      (2)   If the proposed plat is approved, such approval shall be indicated
by the adoption of an ordinance by the corporate authorities. Any proposed
preliminary plat that has been so approved shall have attached to it, by the
Village Clerk, a certified copy of such ordinance.
   (D)   Conditions following preliminary approval of plat.
      (1)   The approval of a preliminary plat by the Village Board is strictly
tentative and involves merely the general acceptability of the information
submitted.
         (a)   Preliminary approval shall be effective for a maximum period of
12 months following the approval date by the Village Board, unless, upon
application of the developer, the Village Board grants an extension.
         (b)   If the final plat has not been recorded within the 12-month or
any extended time limit, the preliminary plat must again be submitted for
preliminary approval, as if it was a new application.
      (2)   Preliminary plat approval shall not qualify a preliminary plat for
recording.
      (3)   Subsequent approval will be required of the detailed engineering
plans pertaining to water supply, storm drainage, sewerage and sewerage
disposal, street lighting, fire hydrants, street gradients, utilities, roadway
widths, and a lot foundation elevation and elevation benchmark grading plan
prior to approval of the final plat by the Village Board.
      (4)   One copy of the plat which has received preliminary approval and
signed by the Planning and Zoning Chairman, attested to by the Planning
Secretary, and received preliminary approval by the Village Board, signed by
the Mayor and attested to by the Village Clerk, shall be retained by the Zoning
Administrator, and 2 copies returned to the subdivider, who may then proceed
with the preparation of plans and specifications for the improvements required
in these regulations, and preparation of the final plat.
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-13-1996; Am. Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord.
2021-03, passed 3-9-2021)
PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT
§ 153.030 APPLICATION.
   Application for final approval of the final plat shall be made to the
Village Board not later than 1 year after approval of the preliminary plan has
been granted by the Village Board, unless the time is extended by the Village
Board, in which case such application must be made within such extended period
of time. No such application for final plat approval shall be made to or
received by the village unless and until a preliminary plat conforming
substantially to the proposed final plat has been approved by the village
within the aforementioned time period.
   (A)   Final plat requirements. The application for approval shall be
accompanied by:
      (1)   Four "0" sized plots and a PDF of the proposed final plat.
      (2)   The final plat shall be prepared electronically at a scale of 1
inch equals 100 feet, or larger if required by the Village Engineer and a
permanent reproducible material such as mylar. All final plats shall show the
following:
         (a)   Proposed name of subdivision and legal description of
subdivision.
         (b)   An identification system for all lots and blocks.
         (c)   Accurate angular and lineal dimensions for all lines, angles,
and curvatures used to describe boundaries, streets, alleys, easements, areas
to be reserved for public use, and other important features. Lot lines to show
dimensions in feet and hundredths. All dimensions shown on curved lines shall
be arc distances.
         (d)   True angles and distances to the nearest established street
lines or established survey monuments (not less than 2), which shall be
accurately described in the plat.
         (e)   North point.
         (f)   Township, county or section lines accurately tied to the lines
of the subdivision by distance and angles.
         (g)   All horizontal dimensions shall be shown, including radii,
internal angles, points of tangency and curvature, tangent bearings and lengths
of all arcs.
         (h)   Accurate location of all monuments, which shall meet the
requirements of the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
         (i)   Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any areas to be
dedicated or reserved for public use, or for the exclusive use of the property
owners within the subdivision, with use purposes indicated thereon.
         (j)   All easements required for the installation and maintenance of
utilities (electric, water, wastewater, gas, cable television, telephone, and
the like) together with a statement that dedicates the easements to the village
and the providers of other public utilities.
         (k)   All scenic or access easements together with a statement that
dedicates the easements to the village.
         (l)   1.   When a planned development or subdivision development (in
Residential Zoning Districts R-2, R-3 and R-4) proposes separate land division
of 2-family dwelling or townhome type structures, such parcels shall be so
indicated on the plat and shall contain restrictive covenants.
            2.   The provisions in this division (A)(2)(l) shall not apply to
any dwelling structures that are lawfully and correctly submitted to the
provisions of the Illinois Condominium Property Act, provided, however, that
any such declaration of condominium shall include Restrictive Covenants and
shall not conflict with village ordinances.
         (m)   The certificates set forth in Appendix B shall appear on all
final plats.
         (n)   The certificates set forth in Appendix C will also appear for
plats located in unincorporated areas within 1-1/2 miles of the boundaries of
the Village of Diamond.
         (o)   The certificates set forth in Appendix D shall be contained on
all final plats within the corporate boundaries of the Village of Diamond.
      (3)   Supporting documents with final plat. The following supporting
documents and data shall be submitted with the final plat:
         (a)   Any special studies or additional items required by the Planning
Commission or the village.
         (b)   All covenants such as homeowner's association covenants, and
similar agreements which are to be applied to and recorded against the
property.
         (c)   A description and justification for any variation from the
preliminary plat and a description of any external factors which have changed
since preliminary plat was approved and which affect the final plat.
         (d)   All documents required by §§
153.130 and
153.131.
      (4)   Monuments. Permanent monuments shall be placed at all corners of
the subdivision and as otherwise required in the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
         (a)   Permanent monuments shall be 3/4-inch in diameter iron pipe or
3/4-inch steel plug set in 6-inch diameter concrete encasement which is augured
into the ground at least 3 feet and with tops flush with the final grade.
         (b)   All lot corners not marked by concrete monuments shall be marked
by galvanized or wrought iron pipe or iron or steel bars at least 18 inches in
length and not less than 1/2-inch in diameter. The top of the pipe or bar is to
be set level with the established grade of the ground after final grading.
   (B)   Fees. At the time of filing the application for approval of the final
plat, fees shall be due and payable, in accordance with the provisions of the
current fee schedule and professional fee agreement, as approved by the Village
Board from time to time.
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-13-1996; Am. Ord. D99-4, passed 12-14-1999; Am. Ord.
2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.031 APPROVAL BY PARTS.
   The applicant may elect to have final approval of a geographic part or parts
of the plat that received preliminary approval and may delay application for
approval of other parts until a later date or dates beyond 1 year with the
approval of the Village Board, provided that public improvements and all other
facilities required to serve the part or parts for which final approval is
sought have been provided. In such cases only such part or parts of the plat
that have received final approval shall be recorded.
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-13-1996; Am. Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord.
2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.032 QUALIFICATIONS GOVERNING FINAL APPROVAL.
   (A)   Qualifications. A proposed plat of subdivision or re-subdivision shall
not be approved by the corporate authorities unless it complies with the
Comprehensive Plan (official map) of the village and all other pertinent
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Actions by Mayor and Village Board. When a person submitting a plat of
subdivision or resubdivision for final approval has supplied all drawings,
maps, and other documents required by the village ordinances to be furnished in
support thereof, and if all such material meets all village requirements, the
Village Board shall, after review and recommendation by the Planning
Commission, act on the proposed plat within 60 days from the date of filing the
last required document or other papers or within 60 days from the date of
filing application for final approval of the plat, whichever date is later. The
applicant and the Village Board may mutually agree to extend the 60-day period.
If action is not taken by the Village Board within such 60-day period, that
failure to act shall constitute a denial of the proposed final plat.
      (1)   Approval shall be indicated by the adoption of an ordinance by the
corporate authorities. Any proposed final plat that has been so approved shall
have attached to it, by the Village Clerk, a certified copy of such ordinance.
      (2)   If the proposed plat is disapproved, the Zoning Administrator will
state the reasons for the disapproval, specifying the aspects in which the
proposed plat fails to conform to village requirements or ordinances.
   (C)   Electronic copy. Once the proposed plat of subdivision, vacation, or
dedication is approved by the Village Board the petitioner shall submit to the
Zoning Administrator an electronic file of the plat in approved and finalized
form. The electronic file shall be scaled and saved in the format specified by
the village. The drawing shall be formatted to SPCS, NA083, HARN2007, with SPCS
north being straight up and the primary units in U.S. Survey Feet. All elements
shall be contained within a single file, no XREF or PDF attachment files shall
be used.
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-13-1996; Am. Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord.
2021-03, passed 3-9-2021)
VACATION OF A PLAT
§ 153.040 VACATION OF A PLAT OF SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Any plat or any part of a plat may be vacated by the developer at any
time before the sale of any lot therein by a written instrument, to which a
copy of such plat shall be attached, declaring the same to be vacated.
   (B)   Such an instrument shall be approved by the Village Board in like
manner as plats of subdivisions. The Village Board may reject any such
instrument which abridges or destroys any public rights in any of its streets
or alleys. Such an instrument shall be executed, acknowledged or approved, and
recorded or filed, in the like manner as plats of subdivisions; and being duly
recorded, or filed, shall operate to destroy the force and effect of the
recording of the plat so vacated and to divest all public rights in the
streets, alleys, and public grounds, and all dedications laid out or described
in such plat.
   (C)   When lots have been sold, the plat may be vacated in the manner
provided in this section by all the owners of lots in such plat joining in the
execution of such writing.
   (D)   All written instruments to vacate a plat of subdivision shall include
a provision that the owners agree to indemnify and hold harmless the village
for damages resulting to any person as a result of the vacation.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 153.045 STREET LAYOUT AND DESIGN.
   (A)   Intent. The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location
of all streets shall conform to the Comprehensive Plan (official map) and to
the provisions of this chapter and shall consider their relationship to
existing and planned streets, to reasonable circulation of traffic, to
topographical conditions, to runoff of storm water, to public convenience and
safety, and in their appropriate relations to the proposed uses of the area to
be served. The village's complete street, adopted by Village Resolution 2019-04
(codified as §
92.02), shall be followed in the design of all street and transportation
systems.
   (B)   Design criteria. The following general design criteria for streets
shall be followed:
      (1)   Developments planned to be constructed adjacent to existing
developments must be designed to accept the alignment and corresponding widths
of existing pavements unless specifically excepted by the Village Board.
      (2)   All right-of-way widths shall conform to the following minimum
dimensions:
 
STREET CLASSIFICATION            MINIMUM RIGHT-OF-WAY
Arterial                         80 feet
Collector                        80 feet
Minor Residential and Cul-de-Sac 66 feet
Marginal Access Streets          66 feet
Frontage Road (dedicated)        66 feet
 
      (3)   If the tract of land proposed to be subdivided or any part thereof
lies adjacent to a highway over which the Department of Transportation of the
State of Illinois or the County of Grundy or County of Will Highway Department
has jurisdiction with respect to maintenance and upkeep thereof and an entrance
or entrances are desired from such highway to lots, streets, roadways or alleys
in the proposed subdivision, the subdivider shall submit to the Village
Engineer a written permit from the department granting permission to obtain and
construct such an entrance or entrances, including details thereof.
      (4)   When a subdivision borders on and has lots fronting on a present or
proposed federal, state, county or limited access highway, necessary traffic
service to the lots of the subdivision property bordering such highways shall
be provided by a frontage road or marginal access street.
      (5)   When a street center line within a single block deflects more than
10 degrees, a curve is required. Minimum center line radius shall be:
         (a)   Arterial and collector streets - 300 feet.
         (b)   Minor residential streets and cul-de-sacs - 150 feet.
      (6)   The maximum length of straight center line or extension of a
tangent to a curve shall be 1,320 feet for collector streets and 660 feet for
minor residential streets. This shall not apply to straight streets on the
boundary of a subdivision.
      (7)   All center line grades shall be at least 0.30% and not exceed the
maximum grades, as follows:
         (a)   Arterial and collector streets - 4%.
         (b)   Minor residential streets and cul-de-sacs - 6%.
      (8)   Vertical curves shall be used whenever a change in center line
gradient occurs.
      (9)   Minor residential streets shall be so aligned that their use by
through traffic will be discouraged.
      (10)   Street jogs with center line offset of less than 125 feet shall be
avoided.
      (11)   The design and layout of the subdivision must demonstrate that all
street intersections and confluences encourage safe and efficient traffic
flows.
      (12)   Unless included in an approved planned development, alleys are not
permitted in the design of any subdivision for which final plat approval is
sought on or after the date of the adoption of this chapter.
      (13)   The maximum length of a cul-de-sac shall be 500 feet measured
along the center line from the intersection at origin to end of right-of-way,
unless there are fewer than 16 lots abutting the cul-de-sac. Each cul-de-sac
shall have a terminus of nearly circular shape with a minimum right-of-way
diameter of 120 feet.
      (14)   Reserved strips of land or other means of control designed to
block the extension of platted or existing streets or drains, or deny street
access, are prohibited.
      (15)   No street names may be used which will duplicate or be confused
with names of existing streets as reviewed and determined by Grundy or Will
County 911 Board.
      (16)   Existing street names must be continued whenever possible.
      (17)   Streets within a development shall not be named after the
developer or the name of the project unless the street is within the
development and cannot be extended into other developments.
      (18)   All proposed street names require the approval of the Planning
Commission.
      (19)   Driveways on main collector streets such as Route 113, Will Road,
Spring Road, and Berta Road, shall be limited at the village's discretion.
      (20)   Parkway trees within a street right-of-way shall not be permitted
unless approved as a part of a planned development.
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-13-1996; Am. Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord.
2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.046 SIDEWALK AND PEDESTRIAN WAYS.
   (A)   Sidewalk and pedestrian ways. All sidewalks and pedestrian ways shall
be installed in dedicated public rights-of-way or public easements. The
dedication or easement shall extend no less than 1 foot on each side of the
sidewalk or pedestrian way surface. Pedestrian ways, dedication or easement,
shall be at least 10 feet wide. Unless otherwise provided for in this or other
regulations, sidewalks shall be constructed within all zoning districts, when
deemed necessary by the Planning Commission and/or Village Board.
   (B)   Design.
      (1)   Concrete sidewalks shall be provided along the lot or throughout
the subdivisions to serve the anticipated needs of its residents and customers.
Sidewalks shall be located in accordance with proper land planning procedures
and with due regard for public safety and anticipated concentration of
pedestrian traffic.
      (2)   In a residential subdivision, sidewalks shall be located in
dedicated street rights-of-way and shall be roughly parallel to the street
surface on both sides of the street, unless otherwise permitted by the Village
Engineer. Sidewalks shall typically be 1 foot from the property line of the
lots and along such line extended at intersections. Cul-de-sacs shall have
sidewalks around the terminus.
      (3)   Where the street design and parallel sidewalk arrangement does not
provide reasonably direct pedestrian access (defined as block length less than
750 feet) to and from school sites, park sites, neighborhood commercial
centers, and other pedestrian traffic generators, pedestrian ways shall be
provided in side yard or other easements or dedicated rights-of-way so as to
permit reasonably direct pedestrian access to and from such sites.
      (4)   The base shall be 4 inches of compacted crushed stone base on a dry
natural or compacted subgrade. In no case shall the base be placed on a
subgrade of topsoil or other unsuitable material.
      (5)   The sidewalk shall be 5 feet wide in all commercial districts and 4
feet wide in all residential districts. The sidewalk shall be a minimum of 4
inches thick. At all residential 21 drive locations this minimum thickness
shall be 6 inches. At all commercial drive locations this minimum thickness
shall be 8 inches. Sidewalk width on State Route 113 is determined by IDOT.
      (6)   The surface finish shall be a light broom finish.
      (7)   Sidewalk curb ramps with a detectable warning surface shall be
constructed at all crosswalks according to IDOT Standard 424001, BOE Manual.
The detectable warning shall consist of an area of truncated domes that begin 6
inches from the back of the curb and continue 2 feet in the direction of
pedestrian travel. The concrete ramp shall be integrally colored red and 6
inches thick.
      (8)   The sidewalk shall be constructed with contraction joints at 5-foot
intervals and shall be saw cut to a minimum depth of 1-inch full width within
24 hours of concrete placement, or tooled at the time of placement to the same
depth.
      (9)   Expansion joints of 3/4 of an inch full depth bituminous fiber
material are required where the new sidewalk abuts all curb, buildings, poles,
other structures, through all drives on each side and at regular 100 feet
intervals.
      (10)   Class SI concrete as specified in the IDOT "Standard Specification
for Road and Bridge Construction" shall be used on all sidewalks. A receipt
from the concrete supplier with this information and the location and date of
the pour shall be submitted to the village prior to any village approvals of
said work.
      (11)   The contractor shall notify the Village Engineer 48 hours prior to
placing the concrete for an inspection of the base and formwork.
      (12)   Installation of sidewalks shall be completed within 2 years of
final plat approval, provided, however, that the corporate authorities may,
upon application, grant extensions for up to 6 months for such sidewalk
completion. No more than 4 such extensions may be granted. No extension shall
be granted unless or until the applicant's (developer's) subdivision security
bond or letter of credit has been extended to remain valid during the term of
any such extension. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed a waiver of the
applicant's (developer's) responsibility to complete the sidewalks, and
provided further that, if the applicant (developer) transfers ownership of any
lot the sidewalk of which has not been accepted by the village, the applicant
(developer) and the owner of the lot shall be jointly and severally responsible
for the completion and maintenance of the sidewalk.
   (C)   Bike paths. Any subdivision that encompasses an area illustrated for a
path on the Village's Trail and Open Space Plan (Comprehensive Plan) are
required to include a shared use path. Such path shall be located either within
a street right-of-way or in a dedicated public easement. Path width shall be
determined by the village, typically 8-feet or 10-feet wide depending on
location and anticipated use.
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-13-1996; Am. Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord.
2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.047 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Subdivision improvement plans and plats shall include separate
easements for village utilities, including water, sewer, sanitary, storm,
street lighting and easements for private utilities such that each said
improvement may be constructed and maintained meeting all separation
requirements and to facilitate the future maintenance of said lines.
      (2)   Easements across lots or centered on rear or side lot lines shall
be provided for utilities and street lighting and drainage or other public use,
where necessary, and shall be at least 10- feet wide.
      (3)   The easements shall be so laid out so that there is a proper
continuity, from lot to lot and block to block.
      (4)   Provisions for extension of easements to adjacent areas shall be
made.
      (5)   Approval of the utility easement layout for public utility
companies shall be required on the final plat.
   (B)   Utility, sewer and drainage easements. Easements for utilities, sewer
and/or drainage shall be provided, by clearly indicating on the face of the
plat the following language or as otherwise specified by the Building
Inspector. Easement provisions whenever the words "public utilities" or "public
utility easement" shall appear on a plat, they are defined as follows: "A
permanent nonexclusive easement is hereby reserved for and granted to the
Village of Diamond, Grundy and Will County, Illinois, and to those public
utility companies operating under franchise from the Village of Diamond, and to
their successors and assigns, in, upon, across, over, under and through the
areas shown by dashed lines and labeled "easements" on the attached plat of
subdivision for the purpose of installing, constructing, inspecting, operating,
replacing, renewing, altering, enlarging, removing, repairing, cleaning, and
maintaining electrical, gas, telephone, and other utility lines or
appurtenances, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, water mains, and any and all
manholes, hydrants, pipes, connections, catch basins, curb stops, and, without
limitation, such other installations as may be required to furnish public
utility service to the attached area, and such appurtenances and additions
thereto as said village and utilities may deem necessary, together with the
right of access across the lots and real estate included in the attached
document for the necessary men and equipment to do any or all of the above
work. The right is also hereby granted to the said village and utilities to cut
down, trim, or remove any trees, shrubs, or other plants that interfere with
the operation or access to any of said utilities, or, without limitation,
utility installations in, on, upon, or across, under, or through said
easements. No permanent buildings or trees shall be placed on said easements,
but some may be used for gardens, shrubs, landscaping, and other purposes that
do not then or later interfere with the aforesaid uses and rights. Where an
easement is used for storm or sanitary sewers, other utility installations
shall be subject to the prior approval of the said Village of Diamond."
   (C)   Consent. Any person who submits the final plat to the Village Board
for final approval shall be deemed to have given consent to the terms of the
declaration of easements set forth in this section.
   (D)   Fences within easement. Where rear yard or side yard fences are
allowed within existing easements, it is recommended that said fences be of a
removable design to allow removal and replacement of said fence sections during
any required utility maintenance procedure. All costs related to the removal
and replacement of said fence sections shall be borne by the property owner.
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-13-1996; Am. Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord.
2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.048 BLOCK STANDARDS.
   (A)   Length. The maximum lengths of blocks shall be 1,800 feet.
      (1)   Blocks over 900 feet long shall have pedestrian ways at their
approximate centers.
      (2)   The use of additional access ways to schools, parks, or other
destinations may be specified by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Shape. No specific rule concerning the shape of blocks is made, but
blocks must fit readily into the overall plat of subdivision and their design
must evidence consideration of lot planning, traffic flow, and public open
space areas, along with consideration for development of contiguous future
improvements.
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-13-1996; Am. Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord.
2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.049 LOT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Design criteria.
      (1)   Minimum lot dimensions in subdivisions designed for single-family
detached dwelling developments shall be as indicated in the Zoning Ordinance.
      (2)   Acute-angled lot corners shall be minimized. In general, lots
should be as nearly rectangular in shape as practicable with minimum rear lot
widths of 30 feet.
      (3)   All lots, except those in planned developments, shall abut on a
publicly dedicated street.
      (4)   Side lines of lot shall be at right angles or radius to the street
line, or substantially so.
      (5)   Double-frontage lots are not permitted except:
         (a)   When lots back upon an arterial street.
         (b)   When topographic or other conditions render subdividing
otherwise unreasonable.
         (c)   Any double-frontage lots shall have an additional depth of at
least 20 feet to allow space for a buffer along the lot line bordering the
arterial street.
      (6)   Lots abutting upon a watercourse, drainage way, channel, or stream
shall have an additional depth or width, as required, to assure that a building
area of at least 7,000 square feet is not subject to flooding.
      (7)   A shade tree, minimum 2-inch diameter, shall be planted within the
front yard of all new single-family lots prior to occupancy. Tree species shall
be selected from the village's approved tree list. The Planning and Zoning
Coordinator may authorize alternative tree species and may issue a temporary
occupancy permit if seasonal conditions prevent tree planting at the time of
initial occupancy.
   (B)   Lot grading.
      (1)   Grading of lots and roadways within the village shall be
accomplished in a manner to prevent ponding and shall not result in the
flooding of any primary structures. The only exceptions are for stormwater
detention/retention basins.
      (2)   Except in special cases, grading of all grassed areas of lots shall
be kept within the range of 0.5% and 5%.
      (3)   Driveway grades on all lots, as measured from the top of curb to
finished garage floor, shall be kept within the range of 4% and 8%.
      (4)   Drainage easements will be provided along the rear and/or side lot
lines when surface waters from more than 1 lot are conveyed down a lot line.
      (5)   When the slope between adjacent lots is 3 foot horizontal to 1 foot
vertical or greater, retaining walls or other improvements approved by the
Village Engineer shall be required.
      (6)   A minimum of 4 inches of topsoil shall be provided on all lots and
parkways.
      (7)   Parkways shall be sodded or seeded with Class I seed at the rate
and method as indicated in, Section 642, of the Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction, of the Illinois Department of Transportation.
   (C)   Addressing of lots, buildings, or structures.
      (1)   Numbering system. All lots, buildings, and structures in the
village shall be numbered by the Zoning Administrator of the village.
      (2)   Location. It shall be the duty of the owner and occupant of every
commercial, residential or industrial structure in the village to have placed
thereon numerals showing the number of the dwelling.
         (a)   These numerals shall be clearly visible from the street. At
least 4 inches in height and not greater than 8 inches in height and in a
contrasting color visible from the street. The numerals shall be made of a
solid material that is physically distinct from the underlying or surrounding
surface of the structure to which they shall be attached (i.e., painted
numerals and the like shall be prohibited).
         (b)   These numerals shall be placed at a location near the main
entrance of the principal building.
         (c)   On corner lots, numerals shall be visible from the street on
which the main entrance is located.
      (3)   Penalty. Any person, firm, or corporation failing to so number any
structure owned or occupied by him or her within 10 calendar days after
receiving notice to do so from the village shall be fined $10 for each day on
which the failure to number continues.
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-13-1996; Am. Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord.
2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
OTHER REGULATIONS
§ 153.060 FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS.
   Subdivision of, or development activities on, any land within the Village of
Diamond, or within its extra-territorial jurisdiction, shall be subject to the
conditions contained in its current ordinance (
Chapter 155), as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty,
see §
153.999
§ 153.061 EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL MEASURES.
   Subdivision of, or development activities on, any land within the Village of
Diamond, or within its extra-territorial jurisdiction, shall be subject to the
conditions contained in its current ordinance entitled "Soil Erosion and
Sediment Control, Ordinance 1995-05, as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty,
see §
153.999
SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMITS
§ 153.070 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, no person shall commence or
perform any moving, altering, grading, stripping, excavating, filling or paving
of land without first obtaining a site development permit.
(Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty,
see §
153.999
§ 153.071 PERMIT NOT REQUIRED.
   A site development permit shall not be required in the following cases:
   (A)   Residential, commercial and industrial subdivisions, which are in
excess of 1 acre. However, subdivision developers shall submit erosion and
sedimentation control plan, as stated in §
153.061, along with development plans for the subdivision improvements, and a
subdivision grading plan.
   (B)   All single family residences to be constructed upon existing lots
shall not be required to obtain a site development permit, but shall be
required to submit plans and specifications required for application of a
building permit.
(Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 153.072 APPLICATION.
   (A)   No site development or building permit shall be issued until the
applicant submits an erosion and sedimentation control plan, together with
other submissions required by this subchapter, and certifies that any land
clearing, construction, or development involving the movement of earth shall be
in accordance with such plan and submissions.
   (B)   Each application for a site development permit shall be made by the
owner of the property or his or her authorized agent to the Zoning
Administrator on a form furnished for that purpose.
   (C)   Each application shall be accompanied by the following:
      (1)   A vicinity map in sufficient detail to enable easy location of the
site for which the permit is sought, and includes the boundary line and
approximate acreage of the site, existing zoning and a legend and scale.
      (2)   A development plan of the site showing:
         (a)   Existing topography of the site and adjacent land within
approximately 100 feet of the boundaries, drawn at no greater than 2-foot
contour intervals and clearly portraying the conformation and drainage pattern
of the area.
         (b)   The location of existing buildings, structures, utilities, water
bodies, floodplains, drainage facilities, vegetative cover, paved areas and
other significant natural or manmade features on the site and adjacent land
within approximately 100 feet of the boundary.
         (c)   A general description of the predominant soil types on the site,
their location and their limitations for their proposed use.
         (d)   Proposed use of the site; areas of excavation, grading and
filling; proposed contours; provisions for storm drainage, including the
control of accelerated runoff, with a drainage area map and computations; and
areas and acreages proposed to be covered, sodded or seeded, stabilized or left
undisturbed.
      (3)   A stormwater drainage plan in accordance with §
153.118.
      (4)   An erosion and sedimentation control plan when required pursuant to
§
153.061.
(Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty,
see §
153.999
§ 153.073 UTILITIES.
   (A)   All telephone, electric service, fiber and cable TV and broadband
lines, as well as gas mains shall comply with §
153.111.
   (B)   All water main, service lines and appurtenances shall comply with §
153.116.
   (C)   All sanitary sewers and appurtenances shall comply with §
153.117.
   (D)   All storm drainage facilities shall comply with §
153.118.
(Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty,
see §
153.999
§ 153.074 REVIEW; APPROVAL.
   (A)   To further the specific purposes of this subchapter, the following
review procedures are established.
   (B)   Processing of site development application. The Village Engineer shall
review all site development applications. Following such review, the Zoning
Administrator may:
      (1)   Approve the site development application if he finds it to be in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter and issue a permit;
      (2)   Approve the site development application subject to such reasonable
conditions the Village Engineer may deem necessary to secure substantially the
objectives of this chapter, and issue a permit subject to those conditions;
      (3)   Disapprove the site development application and require re-
submittal that meets the conditions of this chapter; or
      (4)   Review of a site development application and the rendering of a
decision thereon shall be completed within 120 days from the receipt of a
complete application therefore, including but not limited to the submission of
all required materials, and payment of all required fees, together with the
execution of a professional fee agreement and the payment of a $5,000 deposit
to secure the payment of such fees. If a decision on the application is not
rendered within 120 days from the complete receipt thereof, the lack of a
decision shall be deemed a denial of the application.
(Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 153.075 APPEALS.
   The applicant may appeal the decision of the Zoning Administrator, including
any lack of action by the Building Inspector, to the Planning Commission.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an appeal, the Planning Commission shall schedule and
hold a hearing, after giving notice to the applicant.
2022 S-13
   (B)   Within 30 days following the hearing, the Planning Commission shall
transmit its findings and recommendations to the Village Board for final
disposition.
(Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 153.076 RESPONSIBILITY.
   Failure of the village officials to observe or recognize hazardous or
unsightly conditions or to recommend denial of the site development permit, or
of the Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission to deny the permit, shall
not relieve the permittee from responsibility for the condition or damage
resulting therefrom, and shall not result in the village, its officers or
agents, being responsible for any condition or damage resulting therefrom.
Moreover, issuance of any site development permit or other permit shall not
relieve any recipient thereof of the obligation to comply with all other
applicable village ordinances, including but not limited to those ordinances
and codes relating to nuisance abatement, and to property maintenance.
(Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 153.077 EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   Every site development permit shall expire by limitation and become null and
void if the work authorized by such permit has not been commenced within 180
days or is not completed within 1 year from date of issue; except that the
Village Board may, if the permit holder presents satisfactory evidence that
unusual difficulties have prevented work being started or completed within the
specified time limits despite the permit holder' exercise of reasonable
diligence, grant a reasonable extension of time if written application is made
before the expiration date of the permit.
(Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 153.078 INSPECTIONS.
   The Village Engineer shall inspect the site and shall either approve that
portion of the work completed or shall notify the permittee that the same fails
to comply with the approved plan.
   (A)   When it is found by inspection that conditions are not substantially
as stated or as shown in the plan, the Village Engineer may order that further
work be stopped until non-conforming conditions are corrected.
   (B)   Plans for grading work and the site development permit shall be
maintained at the site during progress of the grading.
   (C)   Until the final inspection is made, a permit issued by the village
indicating permission to construct has been granted by the village shall be
prominently displayed on the front property line of the site involved and be
visible from the street on which the site fronts.
   (D)   In order to obtain inspections in accordance with the following
schedule, the permittee shall notify the Village Engineer at least 2 full
working days before the inspection is to be made for:
      (1)   Stripping and clearing;
      (2)   Rough grading, i.e., when all rough grading has been completed;
      (3)   Final grading; and
      (4)   Final inspection, i.e., when all work, including installation of
all drainage and other structures and required planting, has been completed.
(Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty,
see §
153.999
§ 153.079 FEES.
   Fees for services provided by the Village Engineer, village staff and
consultants consisting of plan review and filing fees shall be as follows: The
usual and customary fees as provided for in the professional fee agreement and
pursuant to the then-current fee schedule as approved by the Village Board from
time to time. This shall include, but not be limited to, Engineering Design
Review fees and inspection fees.
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-13-1996; Am. Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord.
2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.080 EXCEPTIONS.
   The Village Board, after receiving the recommendation of the Planning
Commission, may authorize exceptions to any of the requirements and regulations
set forth in this subchapter upon the conditions below set forth.
   (A)   Application for exception. Application for any exceptions shall be
made by petition of applicant stating fully the grounds for the application.
      (1)   Such petition shall be filed with the site development permit
application.
      (2)   In order for the site referred to in the petition to come within
the provision of this section, it shall be necessary that the Planning
Commission find all of the following facts with respect thereto:
         (a)   That the site is of such shape or size or is affected by such
physical conditions or is subject to such title limitations of record that it
is impossible or impractical for the developer to comply with all of the
regulations of this subchapter;
         (b)   That the exception is necessary for the preservation and
enjoyment of a substantial property right of the petitioner;
         (c)   That the granting of the exception will not be detrimental to
the public welfare or injurious to other property in the vicinity of the
subject site.
   (B)   Referral of proposed exception. Each proposed exception shall be
referred to the Village Engineer and the Village Engineer shall transmit to the
Planning Commission recommendations, which recommendations shall be reviewed
prior to the granting of any exception.
   (C)   Planning Commission. After hearing thereon, the Planning Commission
may recommend approval of the site development permit application with the
exceptions and conditions it deems necessary or it may recommend disapproval of
such site development permit application and exception application or it may
take such other action as is appropriate.
      (1)   Recommendations of the Planning Commission shall be submitted for
final action to the Village Board.
      (2)   If the Village Board fails to make a determination within 45 days
after receipt of the Planning Commission's recommendations, such failure shall
constitute an approval of the Planning Commission's recommendations, unless
such 45 days is extended with the consent of the applicant.
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-13-1996; Am. Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord.
2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.081 SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS.
   (A)   If, at any stage of the grading, the Village Engineer determines by
inspection that further work, under the then-existing conditions thereof is
likely to imperil or poses an imminent threat to any property, public way,
watercourse or drainage structure, the Building Inspector may require, as a
condition to allowing the work to continue, that such reasonable safety
precautions be taken as he or she considers advisable to avoid the likelihood
of such peril.
   (B)   Special precautions may include, but shall not be limited to,
specifying a flatter exposed slope, construction of additional drainage
facilities, berm, terracing, compaction, or cribbing, installation of plant
materials for erosion control, and reports from a registered professional
engineer, whose recommendations may be made a requirement before further work
can continue.
   (C)   When it appears that erosion or other storm damage may result because
the grading is not complete, work may be stopped and the permittee required to
install temporary planting to control erosion, install temporary structures or
take such other measures as may be required to protect adjoining property, or
the public safety.
   (D)   On large operations or when unusual site conditions prevail, the
Building Inspector may specify the time of commencement of grading and time of
completion, or may require that the operation be conducted in specific stages
to insure timely completion of protective measures or devices.
(Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty,
see §
153.999
§ 153.082 NUISANCES.
   This subchapter shall not be construed as authorizing any person to maintain
a private or public nuisance upon their property, and compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter shall not be a defense in any action to abate
such nuisance.
(Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty,
see §
153.999
RESUBDIVISION OF LAND; UPGRADING OF EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS
§ 153.095 RESUBDIVISION.
   In case of resubdivision of areas previously subdivided, where improvements
are already installed which meet the requirements of this chapter, no further
construction shall be required; provided, however, that where such
installations have become worn or broken, defective or do not meet current
village standards, the subdivider shall be required to repair and correct such
defects or deficiencies and bring the same into compliance with the current
requirements of the village.
(Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty,
see §
153.999
§ 153.096 UPGRADING EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS.
   If property, for which an application to subdivide has been presented, abuts
on or contains an existing public street which has width of pavement less than
required by this chapter, the subdivider shall be required to dedicate
additional land sufficient to bring roadway widths up to the minimum standards
of this chapter, before the approval of the property for resubdivision.
(Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty,
see §
153.999
DESIGN STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS
§ 153.110 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The owner or subdivider shall install storm and sanitary sewers, water
supply system, street grading and pavement, sidewalk, pedestrian ways, public
utilities and street lighting in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   Soils investigations and physical tests.
      (1)   If the proposed subdivision contains questionable soil, and in the
opinion of the Village Engineer soil borings or other soil tests are necessary
to determine the nature and extent of such questionable material, the
subdivider, builder, or land developer shall retain the services of a competent
testing laboratory to perform the needed investigations. Such testing
laboratory shall be subject to the approval of the village.
      (2)   Copies of the completed reports compiled by the testing laboratory
shall be filed with the Village Engineer and Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   Supervision. The design engineer engaged by the subdivider, builder,
or land developer shall be represented by his or her agent at the site of
construction as needed to ensure that the construction or required land
improvements comply with the approved development plans and specifications.
   (D)   Inspection.
      (1)   All required improvements, public and private, shall be inspected
by the Village Engineer during the course of construction and at completion for
compliance with this chapter and the approved plans and specifications.
      (2)   Builders and developers are required to notify the Village Engineer
a minimum of 48 hours prior to beginning any underground or surface
improvements (sewer, water, paving, including parking lots, etc.) to arrange
for the appropriate inspections, as required in §
153.130(C).
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-13-1996; Am. Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord.
2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.111 PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   (A)   Location. All public utility lines for telephone, electric service,
cable TV or fiber and broadband shall be placed in easements or along dedicated
street right-of-ways and entirely underground in residential subdivisions.
      (1)   When telephone, electric service and cable or fiber TV and
broadband lines are placed underground entirely throughout a subdivided area,
the conduits or cable shall be placed within easements or dedicated public ways
in a manner which will not conflict with other underground services.
      (2)   Any electrical service in a street right-of-way or within a rear
yard easement shall be within conduit meeting village specifications and
installed by the developer.
      (3)   All above ground appurtenances shall be located to not be unsightly
or hazardous to the public.
   (B)   All gas mains shall be placed within street right-of-ways or within
easements.
   (C)   Notification. Underground work, either the installation of or the
repair of existing sewer and water systems, shall not commence until the
appropriate public utilities are staked by their owners.
   (D)   Conveyance of improvements. Title to all public improvements required
in this chapter shall, at the time the same are accepted by the Village Board,
be conveyed and transferred to the village by sufficient documents of transfer,
provided further however, that the acceptance of all such conveyances of public
improvements shall require the action of the Village Board.
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-13-1996; Am. Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord.
2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.112 STREET PAVEMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   All street pavements within the village shall be constructed in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, State
of Illinois, Department of Transportation, Current Edition.
         (b)   The current edition of the Illinois Department of
Transportation's Design Manual.
      (2)   Design requirements for the pavement shall be related to the
classification of the street based on the zoning classification of the area
adjacent to the subject street and/or the street classification as set forth in
the official map. The classification of new streets, as well as variations to
street classifications as shown in Table 1 below for a given street, must be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator for his or her review prior to submittal
of the preliminary plat to the Planning Commission.
      (3)   At the request of the Village Engineer, a copy of all design
assumptions and computations on which the proposed design is based shall be
submitted.
      (4)   The Pavement Design and Right-of-Way Chart (Table 1) establishes
minimum right-of-way widths and the minimum design standard for a particular
street classification. If, in the opinion of the Village Engineer, traffic use
or geometric considerations for a road or part of a road warrants modified
design, detail, a greater right-of-way width, a wider pavement width, and/or a
greater structural number than listed on the chart, it shall be required.
TABLE 1. PAVEMENT DESIGN AND RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH CHART
Street Classification Minimum Right-of-Way Width Minimum Width of Face of Curb
TABLE 1. PAVEMENT DESIGN AND RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH CHART
Street Classification       Minimum Right-of-Way Width Minimum Width of Face of
                                                       Curb
Arterial                    80 feet                    48 feet or two 24-foot
                                                       median with strip
Collector                   80 feet                    38 feet
Minor Residential
1. Cul-de-Sac* Circular End                            
Diameter                    66 feet                    30 feet
                           120 feet                   30 feet
2. Dedicated (other than #1 66 feet                    30 feet
above)                      66 feet                    30 feet
3. Private (PUD)
Industrial                  80 feet                    40 feet
Business                    80 feet                    40 feet
Marginal Access Streets     66 feet                    28 feet
Frontage Road (dedicated)   66 feet                    28 feet
NOTE:   * The pavement diameter to face of curb of circular-ended cul-de-sac
shall be a minimum of 100 feet.
 
      (5)   Private streets in planned developments shall typically, at a
minimum, meet the minimum requirement for street width and design for minor
residential streets, shall have curb and gutter on both sides of the street,
and shall have a minimum centerline radius of curvature of 150 feet. However,
some deviation from these standards may be allowed if approved as a part of the
Planned Development.
   (B)   Pavement design.
      (1)   General. All pavements shall be designed in accordance with the
previously referenced standards and manuals.
         (a)   The design thickness shall be dependent on the soil support
value and the projected traffic factor; however, in no case shall thicknesses
of pavements be less than the minimum specified in the Illinois Department of
Transportation's Design Manual.
         (b)   Actual or projected traffic counts, along with sufficient soil
boring data, will be required for the structural design.
      (2)   Subgrade. All subgrade material shall have a minimum Illinois
Bearing Ration (IBR) of 3.0.
         (a)   Subgrade material having an IBR less than 3.0 shall be removed
and replaced with a suitable fill material, or the pavement must be designed to
compensate for soil conditions.
         (b)   The soil support IBR values used by the designer shall represent
a minimum value for the soil to be used.
         (c)   The results of all IBR tests are to be submitted to the Building
Inspector.
      (3)   Flexible pavements.
         (a)   A minimum of 3 inches of compacted asphalt is required for all
flexible pavements. This surface shall consist of 1 1/2-inch Class I surface
course and 1 1/2-inch Class 1 binder course.
         (b)   Pavements with a structural number of 4.00 - 4.99 will require 4
inches of asphalt. This surface shall consist of 1 1/2-inch Class 1 surface
course and 2 inches of Class I binder course.
         (c)   The final surface course is to be applied after all other public
improvements have been completed, and the bituminous binder course has proven
to be stable for a 1- year period.
            1.   Prior to the laying of the surface course any defects or
damage to the curb and gutter or pavement base must be corrected to the
satisfaction of the Building Inspector.
            2.   The streets shall then be thoroughly cleaned and a bituminous
tack coat shall be applied at a rate of 0.05 to 0.10 gallons/square yard to
assure uniform and complete adherence of the surface course.
         (d)   To facilitate plowing of snow during the winter months, all
manholes, valve vaults, catch basins, inlets, and the like, located within the
pavement area are to be ramped with compacted temporary asphalt patch material
for the period between the time the road is opened for general traffic and the
time the final surface course is applied. This ramp is to be maintained for the
duration of the above specified period.
      (4)   Rigid pavements. The design of all rigid pavements shall be based
on the structural design number for the type of street in question.
         (a)   Portland cement concrete shall be proportioned according to the
applicable sections of the state specifications and shall be designed for a
minimum 28-day compressive strength of 3,500 psi.
         (b)   Air entrainment shall be 4% through 7% percent and slump between
2 and 4 inches.
         (c)   Concrete pavement shall be constructed on a minimum 4-inch
crushed aggregate sub base having a gradation of CA-6.
      (5)   Sight distances. The design engineer shall show at the points of
intersection of proposed roads that the following stopping sight distances are
provided.
 
LEGAL SPEED LIMIT MINIMUM STOPPING DISTANCE
25 - 30 m.p.h.    200 ft.
31 - 40 m.p.h.    275 ft.
41 - 50 m.p.h.    350 ft.
51 - 55 m.p.h.    475 ft.
 
      (6)   Subgrade preparation.
         (a)   The subgrade of all roads shall be graded and rolled in
accordance with Section 212 of the "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction," State of Illinois Department of Transportation.
            1.   Particular attention is directed to the requirements for the
replacement of soft and unstable material as contained in Section 202.03 of
those specifications.
            2.   Embankment shall be placed and compacted in accordance with
Section 207 of those specifications.
         (b)   Compaction tests, (performed by the sand cone method ASSHTO T-
191 or with an approved nuclear density moisture meter) shall be taken in each
fill section, with the maximum distance between tests of 300 feet for each
lift. Density shall be 95% of the maximum density as determined by a Standard
Proctor Test.
         (c)   Proctor tests performed in accordance with AASHTO T-99 shall be
taken on each different type of borrow material.
         (d)   The proctor and density tests must be submitted for review and
approval by the Village Engineer.
         (e)   Upon approval of these tests, an inspection of the sub-grade
will be made by the Village Engineer. The sub-grade must be approved prior to
placing any curb and gutter or base material.
      (7)   Curb and gutter. The Illinois Department of Transportation Type 8-
6.18 curb and gutter shall be provided on all streets. Any proposed
substitutions must meet the approval of the village. Such curb and gutter shall
lead into the enclosed storm sewer system contemplated and required by §
153.118. So-called "rural cross sections" or any other type of roadway design
that does not incorporate both curb and gutter and the use of enclosed storm
sewers shall be prohibited: without otherwise limiting the generality of the
foregoing, the use of crushed stone or gravel shoulders and open drainage
ditches shall specifically be prohibited.
      (8)   Subsurface pavement drains.
         (a)   Subsurface pavement drains may be required at any location where
water may collect in the structural elements of the pavement and other
engineering solutions may not adequately remove or prevent the entrance of
water. Sub-drains may be required because of:
            1.   A high-water table;
            2.   Active springs or seeps beneath the pavement; or
            3.   Excessive amount of surface water entering or collecting in
the structural section.
         (b)   The location of these areas requiring drains may be determined
prior to the preparation of the engineering plans. However, the final
determination shall be made during the construction phase.
         (c)   Sub-drains shall meet the following requirements:
            1.   It shall have adequate capacity to quickly carry away any
water that enters the pavement structural section;
            2.   It must maintain this capacity through the life of the
pavement.
         (d)   Collector pipes shall be a minimum of 6 inches in diameter and
shall be of the following materials:
            1.   Perforated concrete pipe confirming to ASTM C-444;
            2.   Extra quality concrete drain tile conforming to ASTM C-412;
            3.   Extra-strength perforated clay pipe conforming to ASTM C-444;
            4.   Heavy-duty drain tile conforming to AASHTO M-179.
         (e)   Sub-drains are to discharge into the storm sewer system.
      (9)   Street lighting.
         (a)   Street lighting shall be LED and designed in accordance with the
requirements of the American National Standard Practice for Roadway Lighting,
current edition, except as otherwise required by this chapter.
         (b)   Construction, materials and equipment shall conform to the
applicable requirements of the village's electrical code or other ordinances
regulating electrical construction. In the absence of a requirement or
ordinance governing a particular matter, reference shall be made to the
National Electric Code, adopted edition.
         (c)   The manufacture, variety and type of street light installed
shall be subject to the review and approval of the Village Engineer, provided,
however, that all street lights installed along Illinois Route 113 frontage and
along South Berta Road, South Will Road and East Spring Road, shall conform to
the existing decorative lighting recently installed along and continuing to be
installed along Illinois Route 113. Notwithstanding any contrary requirement or
provision of this chapter, the spacing of such decorative lighting shall:
            1.   Utilize existing lighting bases that do not presently have
lighting installed thereon;
            2.   Otherwise conform to the currently established spacing
thereof.
         (d)   The subdivider, owner or developer shall be responsible for the
installation of street lighting as required by this chapter and in causing the
connection of the same to the electric power supply and distribution system.
         (e)   Street lights shall be installed:
            1.   At every "cross" or 'T' intersection;
            2.   At the end of all culs-de-sac or "eyebrows"; and
            3.   Not less than every 240 feet along the frontage of all roads
and streets within the village.
         (f)   All electrical lines for street lighting shall be placed in
conduit installed by the Developer and as approved by the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-13-1996; Am. Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord.
2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.113 SIDEWALKS AND PEDESTRIAN WAYS.
   (A)   No sidewalk or pedestrian way within the village shall be constructed
on soil which is unstable or which, in the opinion of the Village Engineer, is
unsuitable for sidewalk construction. Wherever unstable ground is encountered,
either before the preparation of detailed plans or during the construction
phase of the proposed improvements, the unstable materials shall be removed in
their entirety and shall be replaced with satisfactory materials which shall be
adequately compacted to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer.
   (B)   Sidewalks and pedestrian ways shall be constructed of Portland cement
concrete to a width of not less than 5 feet in commercial districts, not less
than 4 feet in residential districts, and as determined by IDOT along State
Route 113; and a thickness of 4 inches. Sidewalks shall be offset 1 foot from
the abutting lot line and shall be constructed on both sides of the street.
Concrete shall have a minimum 28-day compressive strength of 3,500 pounds,
shall contain not less than 6 bags of cement per cubic yard of concrete, and
shall contain not less than 3% nor more than 6% entrained air. Slump shall not
be less than 2 inches nor more than 4 inches.
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-13-1996; Am. Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007 7-10-2007;
Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.114 TRENCH CONSTRUCTION.
   All trenches for storm or sanitary sewers of any buried utility shall be in
accordance with Section 210 of the referenced "Standard Specifications for Road
& Bridge Construction, State of Illinois Department of Transportation."
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-13-1996; Am. Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord.
2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.115 RIGHT-OF-WAY IMPROVEMENTS.
   After all street and utility work has been completed, all public right-of-
way not covered by pavement shall be covered with a minimum of 4 inches of
topsoil and seeded or sodded to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-13-1996; Am. Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord.
2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.116 WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   No residential, commercial or industrial subdivision, site plan or
planned development shall be approved unless it is served by the village's
water supply system.
      (2)   In the case of any structures, whether residential, commercial or
industrial, constructed prior to the adoption of this chapter and served by a
private well system, the following shall apply:
         (a)   As soon as a village water main is contiguous to and available
to serve a structure or building on a private well system, the owner must
properly abandon the private well system and connect to the village's public
water supply system within 1 year of the availability of the public water
supply system. As used herein, a water main is contiguous to a building or
structure if the main or the easement or right-of-way in which it is located is
adjacent to, touches or runs across, through or under the lot, tract or parcel
of land upon which the building or structure is located.
         (b)   All water supply systems which are installed in the public ways
or easements shall be deemed to be dedicated to the village upon, the village's
approval and acceptance of the public improvements, as evidenced by the action
of the Village Board.
   (B)   Design. Water distribution mains shall be of adequate size and shall
serve the entire development.
      (1)   Water mains shall be designed according to the "standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois" or current
EPA regulations.
      (2)   Installation.
         (a)   The mains shall, in general, be installed in the street right-
of- way, but in no case shall mains be installed within 15 feet of a building.
         (b)   All water mains shall be installed with a minimum depth of cover
of 4½ feet, measured from final grade to the top of the pipe.
         (c)   Mains shall be extended to the property line of the development
along public rights-of- way and at any other location indicated by the Village
Engineer.
         (d)   All excavation, backfilling, restoration of surfaces, and all
related work shall be completed in accordance with this chapter.
      (3)   Size. The minimum size shall be 8 inches, internal diameter, in
residential areas and 12 inches, internal diameter, in all other areas.
      (4)   Gridiron or looping of mains.
         (a)   Each 8-inch water main shall be looped (except cul-de-sacs or
stubbed streets, unless deemed necessary by the Village Engineer) so that runs
between connections to 8 inches or larger size mains shall not be greater than
1,200 feet.
         (b)   Each 10-inch water main shall be looped so that runs between
connections to mains 10 inches or larger shall not be greater than 1,400 feet
in a commercial area or 1,800 feet in residential areas.
         (c)   Each 12-inch water main shall be looped so that runs between
connections to mains 12 inches or larger shall not be greater than 2,200 feet.
         (d)   If the design engineer's report shows spacing greater than the
above for the required residual pressure, that spacing shall supersede the
above requirements with the approval of the Village Engineer.
      (5)   Valves. Valves shall be located on water mains in such a manner to
effectively isolate the sections from the system with minimum disruption.
         (a)   Valves shall be installed so that not over 500 feet of main will
be shut off at any given time.
         (b)   If a tee is installed, 2 valves shall be used.
         (c)   The design engineer shall, by diagrams and/or written reports,
set forth his or her basis for location of water main valves.
         (d)   No more than 15 single-family dwelling units shall be without
water with the shutting off of any 3 valve locations.
      (6)   Valve boxes. Valve boxes shall be used on all main valves and
auxiliary valves.
         (a)   Valve boxes shall have a base compatible with the size and type
of valve to be operated and shall extend to finished grade ground level.
         (b)   Valve box covers shall be marked "WATER."
      (7)   Thrust blocks. Thrust blocks are required at all valves, hydrants,
tees and bends.
         (a)   Engineering drawings shall indicate the location of each
concrete thrust block to be installed.
         (b)   Where undisturbed earth is not available or not likely to be
available to back up pressure-type concrete thrust blocks, the Village Engineer
shall specify tie rods with or without anchor-type concrete thrust blocks.
      (8)   Air release valves. Air release valves shall be placed on the water
main at high points as deemed necessary by the Village Engineer to serve as air
vents preventing air locking of the water main.
   (C)   Fire hydrants.
      (1)   Fire hydrants shall match the hydrants generally installed in the
village's water system and shall be furnished by a manufacturer considered
standard, and must be approved by the Village Engineer (See
Appendix F).
      (2)   Each hydrant shall be provided with a 6-inch auxiliary gate valve
and a 2-foot length of 6-inch pipe between the hydrant and valve.
         (a)   Two and three-fourths inch threaded steel rods with hex nuts
shall be installed to tie the auxiliary gate valve to the water main and
connecting tee.
         (b)   Auxiliary valves shall be provided with valve boxes with covers
marked "WATER.
         (c)   Location.
            1.   Fire hydrants shall be located at no more than 500-foot
intervals.
            2.   If the location or configuration of a commercial building
requires it, then private fire hydrants shall be installed.
            3.   Hydrants shall be located for easy access by the Fire
Department.
   (D)   Water services. The plans, except for residential developments with
individual services for each dwelling unit, shall show the calculated static
water pressure at the lowest and highest ground elevations on the site.
Calculations shall be presented showing that the proposed water services are of
a large enough size to supply an adequate flow of water at the outlet of the
meter.
   (E)   Materials. Water system materials shall be approved by the Village
Engineer and shall be as follows: (See
Appendix F).
      (1)   Water main shall be either AWWA or C-900 PVC, having a minimum DR
of 18. Both types of pipe shall have mechanical or rubber ring push-on joints.
      (2)   Water main fitting shall be either cement-lined ductile iron or PVC
with joints similar to the pipe joints. Fittings shall be capable of
withstanding the same system pressures as the adjacent pipe.
      (3)   Valves for the mains or for auxiliary fire hydrant valves shall be
mechanical joint or push-on joint cast iron bodied, resilient seat gate valves,
Mueller, Clow or equal, with bronze-mounted, double disc gate and with non-
rising stem and rubber O-ring packing. Each valve shall be furnished with a
cast iron road box with a cover marked "WATER."
      (4)   Fire hydrants shall be Clow Model F2500 or Mueller Centurion
hydrants with either mechanical joints or push-on joints. All hydrants shall
have a ground-level breakaway flange feature and safety stem coupling. Hydrants
shall have 6-inch inlet connections, 5 1/4-inch compression-type main valve
openings, two 2 1/2-inch hose connections, and one 4 1/2-inch steamer port with
storks fitting, all with National Standard Fire Threads. All hydrants shall
include stainless steel bolts on all buried restrained joints, including fire
hydrants, megalug fittings and others as determined by the Village Engineer.
      (5)   Water service pipe shall be Type K Soft Copper Tubing, with a
minimum size of 1 inch diameter.
      (6)   Corporation cocks shall be McDonald or equal, with a minimum size
of 1 inch.
      (7)   Curb stops shall be as noted in Appendix F, or equal, with a
minimum size of 1 inch. Each stop shall be furnished with a cast iron Buffalo
screw-type box with arch pattern base and cover marked "WATER."
   (F)   Dry hydrants. The village reserves the right to require one or more
dry hydrants for fire district use on any wet bottom detention ponds approved.
Location, access easements and materials shall be approved by the Village
Engineer and the Fire Protection District with jurisdiction over the subject
property.
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-13-1996; Am. Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007 7-10-2007;
Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.117 SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided herein, no residential, commercial or
industrial subdivision, site plan or planned development shall be approved
unless it is served by sanitary sewers connected to the village's sewer system.
      (2)   In the case of any structures, whether residential, commercial or
industrial constructed prior to the adoption of this chapter and served by a
septic system, the following shall apply:
         (a)   As soon as a public sanitary sewer main is contiguous to and
available to service a structure or building on a septic system, the owner or
owners must properly abandon the septic system and connect to the village's
public sanitary sewer system within 1 year of the availability of the public
sanitary sewer system. As used herein, a sewer main is contiguous to a building
or structure if the main or the easement or right of way in which it is located
is adjacent to, touches or runs across, through or under the lot, tract or
parcel of land upon which the building or structure is located.
         (b)   All sanitary sewer systems which are installed in the public
ways or in easements shall be deemed to be dedicated to the village upon, the
village's approval and acceptance of the public improvements, as evidenced by
action of the Village Board.
   (B)   Design. Sewer mains shall be of adequate size to serve the entire
development and must be approved by the Village Engineer.
      (1)   General requirements.
         (a)   Sewer mains shall be designed according to the latest edition of
the "Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois"
or according to the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency's "Recommended
Standards for Sewage Works." The more stringent requirements of either shall
apply.
         (b)   Before commencing the sewer layout, the developer shall confer
with the village to determine the required size and grades for any trunk sewers
traversing the development.
         (c)   All sanitary sewers shall be constructed in accordance with the
provisions of the latest edition of the "Standard Specifications for Water and
Sewer Main Construction" in Illinois, as modified and/or more specifically
defined in this section. In case of conflict, the following provisions of this
section shall apply.
      (2)   Installation.
         (a)   The mains shall, in general, be installed in the street right-
of-way or in an easement adjacent thereto. In no case shall mains be installed
within 15 feet of a building.
         (b)   Sanitary sewers shall be extended to the edge of the development
along public right-of-ways and at other points indicated by the Village
Engineer.
      (3)   Size. The minimum size of mains shall be 8 inches, internal
diameter.
      (4)   Sewer services. Sanitary sewer service laterals of a minimum of 6-
inch internal diameter shall be provided for each lot, parcel, or tract prior
to the construction of street pavements. Services shall extend to the property
line.
         (a)   Service connection shall consist of a 1/8-inch sewer pipe bend
set in the bell of the main wye or tee and the necessary lengths of the pipe
with the terminus plugged.
         (b)   Service sewers shall have a minimum cover of 30 inches on
private property and 48 inches in public right-of-ways.
         (c)   Two or more structures are not permitted to use a joint building
service sewer.
         (d)   A minimum velocity of 2 ft./sec. shall be maintained.
      (5)   Sewer alignment. Alignment shall be straight between manholes and
follow the layout of the streets.
      (6)   Manholes. Manholes shall be installed not more than 400 feet apart
for sewers less than 18 inches in diameter and 500 feet for sewers 18 inches or
more.
         (a)   Manhole diameter. Manhole diameter shall be 4 feet for sewer
diameter of 21 inches and smaller, and 5 feet for sewer diameter larger than 21
inches.
         (b)   Inspection manholes. An inspection manhole or clean out having a
minimum diameter of 48 inches is required for all commercial and industrial
buildings.
            1.   The manhole shall be constructed on the building service sewer
before it connects to the sewer main and, preferably, shall not be closer than
5 feet from the building.
            2.   There shall be no flow into the inspection manhole except the
flow from the building for which the inspection manhole is intended.
      (7)   Lift stations. If a lift station is part of the engineering design,
it shall be shown in the plan elevation, and the specifications for such lift
station shall be submitted with engineering plans.
         (a)   Lift stations shall be of the wet well type with submersible
pumps and shall conform in all respect to the standards established by the
State of Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and the village.
         (b)   A permanent standby generator of adequate capacity shall be
provided for use during power outages.
         (c)   An alarm shall be installed in the event of failure at the lift
station.
         (d)   Lift stations and force mains are not desirable nor recommended
and shall be used only after all other means of providing service have been
determined to be impossible.
      (8)   Allowable materials shall be approved by the Village Engineer and
shall be as follows:
         (a)   Sewer pipe and fittings shall be PVC sewer pipe, DR-35, meeting
the requirements of ASTM Spec. 03034 and ASTM Spec. F-679. Joints shall be
flexible elastomeric seals per ASTM Spec. 03212.
         (b)   Manholes shall be pre-cast concrete and in accordance with the
appropriate provisions of Section 32 of the referenced "Standard Specifications
for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois." Frames and closed lids in
roadways shall be Illinois Department of Transportation designation 'Type 1
Frame and Closed Lid."
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-13-1996; Am. Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord.
2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.118 STORMWATER DRAINAGE.
   (A)   An adequate system of stormwater drainage shall be constructed and
installed that will adequately drain the development and protect roadway
pavements and will prevent the accumulation of stormwater at any place under
normal conditions.
   (B)   All improvements shall comply with the village's adopted Will County
Storm Water Ordinance. Said improvement plans and supporting design
calculations shall be reviewed and approved by the Village Engineer. Street ROW
drainage and rear yard drainage improvements will both be required. Rear yard
drainage shall include a minimum of two connection points for each lot:
      (1)   Downspout and yard drains.
      (2)   Footing tile/basement sump pump discharge line connection.
   (C)   Private landscaping infiltration systems (rain gardens, etc.) are
encouraged. The use of deep-rooted native plant material is encouraged within
and around detention and retention ponds. All materials shall be approved by
the Village Engineer. A list of approved materials may be added by appendix.
   (D)   All lots adjacent to the Claypool Drainage Ditch shall comply with the
District's construction requirements including a 20-foot setback easement and
future access.
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-13-1996; Am. Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord.
2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.119 STREET LIGHTING.
   (A)   The owner/developer will be obligated to provide street lighting for
the development as herein required. The style and type of lighting will be
determined by the village as set forth in this chapter. Any additional lighting
or special lighting is the responsibility of the owner/developer.
   (B)   Street lighting improvements must be properly detailed on all
subdivision improvement plans and shall incorporate rigid electrical conduits
and junction point/pull boxes as approved by the Village Engineer. Control
boxes are required for all street lighting improvements with the location and
type of box selection to be approved by the Village Engineer. All materials
used shall be approved by the Village Engineer and shall be compatible with
current LED lights/controllers, as approved by the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 1996-01, passed 2-13-1996; Am. Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord.
2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
IMPROVEMENT PROCEDURES
§ 153.130 PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF DESIGN OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Before submitting the final plat for approval and before commencing
work on the construction and installation of any improvements required by this
chapter, the developer or owner shall submit necessary documentation for the
construction and installation of the required improvements to the Village
Engineer for review and approval.
      (1)   Necessary documents. The following documents are required at the
time engineering plans are submitted to the Village Engineer for review and
approval:
         (a)   Two sets of engineering drawings.
         (b)   Two sets of specifications.
         (c)   Two copies of the plat of surveyor subdivision plat.
         (d)   EPA sewer construction permits.
         (e)   EPA water construction permits.
         (f)   Two copies of the storm sewer calculations.
         (g)   Two copies of the storm drainage plan.
         (h)   Two copies of the retention facility calculations.
         (i)   Two copies of the hydraulic gradient profiles of the storm sewer
design, if the design is based on the hydraulic gradient.
         (j)   Two copies of the engineer's estimate of cost.
         (k)   Two copies of the water main calculations for consumption and
fire flow demand when the design is less than the minimum design required by
this chapter.
         (l)   Two copies of the pavement thickness design calculations.
      (2)   Engineering plans. The engineering drawings, which are submitted,
must include the following information:
         (a)   A title sheet showing the name of the project, section, township
and range, an index of sheets, a tabulation of symbols, location of benchmarks
and a graphic location with respect to nearest traveled streets and roads.
         (b)   General plan layout of the project indicating all requirements.
         (c)   A detailed grading plan indicating the elevations of all
building foundations, lot corners, and points of change in gradient.
            1.   Direction of flow of surface waters will be delineated with
arrows and the gradient of the land indicated above the arrows.
            2.   Curb elevation will be indicated opposite each lot corner and
all changes in gradient.
         (d)   A detailed plan of street improvements showing horizontal and
vertical locations of all street and sidewalk improvements and including
horizontal and vertical locations of all points of tangency, points of vertical
curvature, points of vertical intersection, and points of vertical tangency.
Radii of intersection of streets will be shown on this plan.
         (e)   A detailed plan of storm sewer improvements showing horizontal
and vertical locations of all manholes, catch basins, inlets, headwalls, and
the like and indicating lengths, types and grades, and gradients of all storm
sewers and swales meeting all requirements of the village adopted Will County
Stormwater Ordinance.
         (f)   A detailed plan of sanitary sewer improvements showing
horizontal and vertical locations of all manholes and indicating lengths, type
and grade, and gradients of sanitary sewers.
         (g)   A detailed plan of water system improvements indicating
horizontal and vertical location of all fire hydrants and valves and showing
lengths, sizes, and locations of all water mains.
         (h)   Plans and profiles drawn at a scale not to exceed 1 inch equals
40 feet horizontally and 1 inch to 10 feet vertically indicating additional
horizontal and vertical locations of streets, sewers, appurtenances, and the
existing grade.
         (i)   Such additional details as are necessary to clarify the extent
or manner of construction.
         (j)   Summary of all quantities.
         (k)   An erosion and sedimentation control plan, along with the
required SWPPP EPA Permit.
         (l)   General detail sheets showing:
            1.   Pavement cross section.
            2.   Curb, gutter, and sidewalk details.
            3.   Cross section of detention facilities including sedimentation
basins.
            4.   Manholes, vaults, inlets and castings.
            5.   Hydrants.
            6.   Typical trench cross sections for sanitary sewer, storm sewer,
and water mains.
   (B)   Requirements for installation of improvements.
      (1)   (a)   Prior to the approval of the final plat of the proposed
subdivision or planned development by the Village Board and prior to the
recording of the plat, appropriate bonds, escrow monies, recapture fees,
irrevocable letters of credit for public improvements, and any other related
fees must be deposited with the Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   When the appropriate subdivision improvement security is posted
and all permit fees paid to the village, the installation of the required
improvements may begin.
      (2)   Development engineering review fees shall comply with the village's
current professional fee reimbursement agreement.
   (C)   Inspections.
      (1)   All improvements constructed under the terms of this chapter shall
be subject to periodic inspections by Village Engineer.
      (2)   The fees for such inspections shall be payable in accordance with
the provisions of the professional fee reimbursement agreement and the then
current fee schedule approved by the Village Board from time to time.
(Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty,
see §
153.999
§ 153.131 SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT SECURITY.
   (A)   Agreements and guarantees which are required prior to approval of the
final plat are as follows:
      (1)   Agreement. The subdivider, builder, or developer shall provide a
signed statement setting forth in either an annexation or development agreement
wherein he or she or they agree to construct and install the improvements
required in this chapter, in accordance with the plans and specifications
approved by the village.
      (2)   Improvement security. The subdivider or developer shall submit to
the Zoning Administrator a good and sufficient security for the completion of
all the improvements required under this chapter together with the cost of
reasonable inspection fees in the amount of 125% of the cost of such
improvements and fees.
         (a)   The security shall provide that monies in such estimated amounts
are on deposit with a bank or other financial institution and restricted for
the purpose of the installation and satisfactory completion of the
improvements.
         (b)   The acceptable form of security is an irrevocable letter of
credit in the amount issued by any reputable financial institution. The letter
of credit shall be in substantially the form set forth in Appendix E.
      (3)   Maintenance guarantee. In addition to the security requirement
described herein, the subdivider, builder, or developer shall deposit cash in
the amount of 10% of the amount required for construction, or the Village Board
may accept a certificate of deposit or other United States government security
in lieu of cash, which is to be retained by the village for a period of 1 year
following the final acceptance of the project, to insure and protect against
defects or faults discovered during such 1-year period.
   (B)   Reduction of improvement security. A letter of credit may be reduced
from time-to-time (maximum of once per month) upon resolution of the Village
Board approving such reductions and concurrently granting their preliminary
approval to corresponding portions of the improvements.
      (1)   There shall be withheld and reserved from each reduction an amount
equal to 10% of the original estimate of the work completed for which
preliminary approval has been granted.
      (2)   Upon completion of all public improvements and private
improvements, where applicable, and when satisfactorily meeting the
requirements of this chapter, the Village Board, upon resolution, may release
the improvement security and initiate the 1-year maintenance guarantee.
      (3)   If all improvements are acceptable after the 1-year maintenance
period, the maintenance guarantee shall be refunded to the developer along with
any accrued interest.
      (4)   The village may use all or any portion of the maintenance guarantee
to cure or correct any damage, defects, or faults discovered during the 1-year
period should the developer not promptly or properly correct said damage,
defects, or faults.
   (C)   Outside corporate limits. Subdividers, builders, or land developers of
land outside the village limits, but within 1 1/2 miles of the corporate limits
of the village, which is not included in any other municipality, shall also be
subject to these requirements.
   (D)   Provisions applicable to all subdividers. If the subdivider, builder,
or developer elects to develop the subdivision in units or sections, building
permits (where issuance of same is within the jurisdiction of the village) will
be issued for lots contained in each section or unit upon approval by the
village of the plan delineating such sectional development.
      (1)   Public improvements, as set forth in this chapter, for each section
or unit shall adequately serve each and every lot within the unit so designated
and shall conform to the public improvement plans for the entire subdivision
under consideration. Notwithstanding anything else herein to the contrary, no
such phased development shall be permitted unless the developer or subdivider
demonstrates that each separate section, unit or phase upon completion will be
permanently served by all necessary public improvements, and will not rely on
public improvements to be constructed for subsequent sections, units or phases.
      (2)   The sectional installation of public improvements and cash deposit
with the village shall be done in accordance with the requirements set forth
herein.
(Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty,
see §
153.999
§ 153.132 ACCEPTANCE AND APPROVAL OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Acceptance. Each development is required by this chapter to contain
the necessary improvements as outlined in the previous sections. However, the
acceptance of the required improvements is limited to the following types of
developments:
      (1)   All improvements in a planned development as authorized by the
village.
      (2)   The underground and surface improvements within the rights-of-way
of public streets, easements, or outlots in a residential subdivision.
      (3)   All improvements within office, research, or industrial parks.
      (4)   Within other types of developments as authorized by the Village
Board.
   (B)   Approval. When all required improvements, public and private, are
completed in their entirety, the developer or owner must formally request the
village, by letter, to accept or approve (for private improvements) the
improvements and the developer or owner must, in such letter, guarantee them
for a period of 1 year from the date of acceptance or approval (for public and
private improvements).
      (1)   Prior to request for approval, the Village Engineer must be in
receipt of:
         (a)   Test results.
         (b)   As-built GPS data must be provided to the village deemed
compatible with the village's current GIS system. The Developer and/or his
contractor shall be responsible for ensuring the GPS format used is compatible
and acceptable to the village prior to the collection of said data. Data shall
include:
            1.   Actual location and size of storm sewers, sanitary sewer and
water mains showing all locations of all inlets, manholes, valve vaults,
hydrants, and other appurtenances. Actual invert and rim elevations are to be
given for all in lets and manholes.
            2.   Locations and dimensions of roadways, sidewalks, and
easements.
            3.   Locations and sizes of all water and sanitary sewer services.
            4.   Contour lines of any detention facilities along with
calculations indicating actual storage capacity.
            5.   Elevations of the tops of all foundations and the corners of
all lots.
         (c)   An Illinois Environmental Protection Agency operating permit for
all water main construction.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the letter of request, the Zoning Administrator
will authorize and schedule a final inspection to take place as soon as
reasonably possible after receipt of the letter.
         (a)   Final inspections shall not be scheduled between November 15 and
April 1 unless, in the opinion of the Village Engineer, weather conditions
permit.
         (b)   All deficient improvements which do not conform to this chapter
(i.e., incomplete, damaged, or poor workmanship) will be inventoried.
         (c)   The inventory of deficiencies will be forwarded to the developer
or owner for processing.
         (d)   When the deficiencies are corrected, the developer or owner
shall request a second inspection. Scheduling of the second inspection shall be
the same as for the first inspection.
         (e)   If the length of time between the first and second inspection is
greater than 4 months or if the noted deficiencies are not correct at the time
the second inspection is made, the request for acceptance will be cancelled.
         (f)   If cancelled, a second request letter will be required. The
second request for acceptance is subject to the following conditions:
            1.   The developer or owner shall pay costs incurred by the person
conducting the inspection.
            2.   The punch list of deficiencies recorded during the previous
inspections will be voided and a complete re-inspection is required.
            3.   Surface maintenance. During the period between the
installation of the final surface course on the roadways and the termination of
the 1-year maintenance guarantee or the final acceptance of the public
improvements, the Village Engineer may request the developer to seal all cracks
that appear in the pavement section with an approved hot poured rubber asphalt
sealing compound.
               a.   This crack sealing is limited to-those cracks that normally
occur due to volume and thermal shrinkage.
               b.   All other types of pavement distress will have to be
properly repaired to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer.
               c.   All cracks shall be properly routed and air-blown clean in
accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations and to the satisfaction of
the Village Engineer.
            4.   Final acceptance and approval. No improvements, public or
private, shall be accepted or approved (for private improvements) by the
Village Board prior to receipt of the Village Engineer's report specifying
whether or not the improvements comply with this chapter and the approved plans
and specifications.
            5.   Subdivisions with private improvements. Where any subdivision
to be developed within the village pursuant to the requirements of this and
other applicable village ordinances contains private improvements and/or
private common areas, including without limitation improvements and areas such
as private streets, detention or retention ponds, open space, landscaped areas,
approved subdivision signage, private recreational areas, or private sanitary
sewer or potable water facilities ("private improvements"), the subdivision
shall be bound by a recorded declaration of covenants and restrictions
("declaration"), which declaration shall at a minimum contain a provision
allowing the creation of a special service area in the event that such private
improvements fail to be maintained in accordance with the applicable ordinances
and requirements of the village, and otherwise in a "first-class condition,"
and which shall further place the permanent responsibility for such maintenance
of the private improvements upon an association comprised of the owners of lots
within the subdivision, and shall additionally provide that the owner,
subdivider, developer, association and the respective successors, assignees and
grantees thereof, shall not object to and agree to cooperated with the village,
and the village will establish, a special service area ("SSA") for the property
within such subdivision to be utilized as a means to ensure and provide for a
source of revenue to help defray the costs for the care and maintenance of the
private improvements, in the event that the private improvements fail to be
maintained as herein required. The village and owner, developer or subdivider
of the subdivision in question shall work together to create a maintenance plan
for the private improvements prior to the actual transfer of the day-to-day
responsibility thereof from the owner, developer or subdivider to the
association; prior to such transfer the owner, developer or subdivider shall
remain fully responsible for the maintenance and upkeep of the private
improvements. If at any time the owner, developer or subdivider or association,
as the case may be, fails to maintain the private improvements then the village
shall have the right but not the obligation, to undertake such maintenance and
utilize the SSA to provide funds to pay the costs of such maintenance
undertaken by the village. The SSA shall provide for the authority of the
village to levy up to $0.20 per $100 of assessed valuation ("rate cap") to fund
the payment of the aforesaid costs and expenses. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the special tax roll shall not be levied hereunder, and the SSA shall be
"dormant", and shall take effect only if the village finds a failure or default
in the maintenance of the private improvements.
(Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty,
see §
153.999
PARK DEDICATION
§ 153.145 DEDICATION OF PARKS OR PAYMENT OF CASH IN LIEU THEREOF.
   As a condition of approval of all final plats of residential subdivisions,
or of final plat of all existing residential developments, both within the
village limits and within 1 1/2 miles of the village limits, each subdivider or
developer will be required to dedicate land for park and recreational purposes
to serve the immediate and future needs of the residents of the development, or
cash contribution in lieu of actual land dedication, or a combination of both,
at the option of the village, in accordance with the requirements set out in
this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 153.146 CRITERIA FOR REQUIRING PARK AND RECREATIONAL LAND DEDICATION.
   (A)   Amount of land required.
      (1)   The ultimate population density to be generated by a subdivision or
development shall bear directly on the amount of land required to be dedicated
for parks and recreation sites. The acreage of land dedication requirement
shall be determined by obtaining the total population of the development times
the number of required acres per 1,000 population.
      (2)   The total requirement shall be as set forth below or cash in lieu
of land. Table I below shall be a guideline for park and recreational land
distribution.
         (a)   Table I.
TABLE I
Type of Recreational Area Size Range
TABLE I
Type of Recreational Area Size Range
Playlot                   Minimum 10,000 square feet
Neighborhood Park         3 to 11 acres
Community Park            Minimum 12 acres
Example: development of 100 detached single-family 3-bedroom homes with 2.899
people per household (Source: Table II)
                          Number of dwelling units X ultimate population* for
Total ultimate population detached single-family 3-bedroom homes
                          100 x 2.899 = 290
                          Total ultimate population x 10 acres/1,000
Required acres            = 290 x 10/1,000
                          = 2.9 acres
 
         (b)   Table II shall set forth the estimated ultimate population per
dwelling unit. Presumptions:
            1.   On property zoned for single-family detached units, it shall
be presumed that 50% of the units shall contain three bedrooms and 50% of the
units shall contain four bedrooms. All fractions shall be rounded to the
nearest unit.
            2.   On property zoned for the construction of single-family
attached (duplex) units, it shall be presumed that 40% of the units shall
contain two bedrooms and 60% of the units shall contain three bedrooms. All
fractions shall be rounded to the nearest unit.
            3.   On property zoned for single-family attached units, it shall
be presumed that 70% of the units shall contain two bedrooms and 30% of the
units shall contain three bedrooms. All fractions shall be rounded to the
nearest unit.
            4.   On property zoned for multifamily units, it shall be presumed
that 40% of the units shall contain one bedroom, 50% of the units shall contain
two bedrooms, and 10% of the units shall contain three bedrooms. All fractions
shall be rounded to the nearest unit.
TABLE II
Type of Unit Total Per Unit
TABLE II
Type of Unit                                                Total Per Unit
Detached single-family                                       
   2-bedroom                                             2.017
   3-bedroom                                             2.899
   4-bedroom                                             3.764
   5-bedroom                                             3.770
Attached single-family (duplex, townhouse, row house, etc.)
   1-bedroom                                             1.193
   2-bedroom                                             1.790
   3-bedroom                                             2.392
   4-bedroom                                             3.145
Apartments:
   1-bedroom                                             1.294
   2-bedroom                                             1.758
   3-bedroom                                             1.914
   4-bedroom                                             3.053
 
   (B)   Density formula.
      (1)   The above table of population density is generally indicative of
current and short-range projected trends in family size for new construction
and shall be used in calculating the amount of required dedication of acres of
land or the cash contributions in lieu thereof unless a written objection is
filed thereto by the subdivider or developer.
      (2)   In the event a subdivider or developer files a written objection to
the table of estimated ultimate population listed herein, he or she shall
submit his or her own demographic study showing the estimated additional
population to be generated from the subdivision or development, and in that
event, final determination of the density formula to be used in such
calculations shall be made by the village, in its sole discretion, upon
consideration of the table of population density, such demographic information
submitted by the subdivider or developer and such other sources of information
which may be submitted to or obtained by the Planning Commission. It is
recognized that population density, age distribution and local conditions
change over the years, and the specific formula for the dedication of land, or
the payment of fees in lieu thereof, as stated herein, is subject to periodic
review and amendment if necessary.
   (C)   Location and ownership. The Comprehensive Plan, appropriate standards
and adopted municipal and county plans shall be used as a guideline in locating
sites. A central location which will serve equally the entire development is
most desirable. In a large development, these sites can be located throughout
the development according to established standards for park area distances from
residential areas. Each park site should have at least 66 feet of frontage on
dedicated public roads. Full fee simple title to the dedicated park shall be
held by the village or as determined and/or assigned by the Village Board. When
necessary, operation and maintenance may be done by a homeowner's association
with the execution of the appropriate legal documents.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 153.147 TIME OF CONVEYANCE OR PAYMENT.
   The subdivider or developer shall convey to the village the land required
under this section within 30 days after any subdivision plat or final plat of a
planned unit development is recorded in the County Recorder's Office (Grundy or
Will). All improvements shall be completed within such a time as required by
the village.
   (A)   Land conveyance by warranty deed. Each warranty deed conveying land to
the village shall be accompanied by the following:
      (1)   A written commitment issued by a title insurer licensed to do
business in Illinois to ensure that grantor has good merchantable title to such
real estate in an amount no less than $1,000, subject only to then current
general real estate taxes as of the date of transfer, covenants, conditions and
restrictions which do not prohibit the use of the subject real estate for
school, park or village use.
      (2)   A current boundary line survey certified to the grantee by a
licensed Illinois land surveyor to be in compliance with the Illinois land
survey standards.
      (3)   Except in instances where the real estate to be conveyed is a lot
in a recorded subdivision, an assessment plat and tax division petition in form
acceptable to the appropriate county authorities so that the land to be
conveyed can be assigned its own permanent real estate index number for
exemption purposes.
   (B)   Cash contributions; payments. Cash contributions shall be in the form
of a check payable to the village and shall be deposited with the Village
Clerk. Cash contributions shall be paid in equal installments on the issuance
of the building permit for each dwelling unit provided, however, that in the
event said lands are the subject of an annexation agreement or a development
agreement, payments shall be made at the times and in the manner provided in
said agreement.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 153.148 CRITERIA FOR REQUIRING CASH CONTRIBUTION IN LIEU OF PARK AND
RECREATION SITES.
   (A)   Where the development is small and the resulting site is too small to
be practical or when the available land is geologically and topographically
inappropriate for park and recreational purposes as determined by the village,
or where the village, in its discretion, determines a land dedication to be
otherwise inappropriate, the village shall require the subdivider or developer
to pay a cash contribution in lieu of the land dedication required. The cash
contribution in lieu of park and recreation land, as herein classified, will be
available to serve the immediate or future needs of the residents of that
subdivision or development or for the improvement of other existing local park
and recreation land needs and not, however, to include operational expenses.
The village shall hold the donation plus all accumulated interest in a separate
account specifically for the acquisition or improvement of park and
recreational land and/or acquisition of equipment and buildings for park and
recreational land.
   (B)   Fair market value. The cash contribution in lieu of land shall be
based on the fair market value of the acres of land in the area that otherwise
would have been dedicated as a park site as set forth in §
153.146. The fair market value, on a per-acre basis, shall assume, unless
otherwise determined pursuant to §
153.146, that the land is zoned single-family detached residential, subdivided
with appropriate frontage on a dedicated road, and has all appropriate
utilities available, is improved as set forth in this section, and is otherwise
property capable of being used for residential development. The written opinion
of an appraiser or real estate professional shall constitute prima facie
evidence of the fair market value of the land in question and shall be used in
calculating any cash in lieu of land contributions herein unless timely
objected to as provided in §
153.154. Objections to the fair market value as defined above shall be made to
the Planning Commission in accordance with §
153.154. Failure to timely object to the fair market value, as defined above,
in accordance with §
153.154 shall thereafter waive any right to raise an objection at a later time.
   (C)   Criteria for requiring land dedication and cash contribution. There
may be situations in subdivisions or developments when a combination of land
dedication and a contribution in lieu of land are both necessary. These
occasions will arise when:
      (1)   Only a portion of the land to be developed is proposed as the
location for a park site. That portion shall be dedicated as a site as
aforesaid, and a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be required;
      (2)   A major part of the local park or recreation site has already been
acquired and only a small portion of land is needed from the development to
complete the site. The remaining portions shall be required by dedication, and
a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be required.
   (D)   Credit for private open space and recreation areas.
      (1)   When subdividers or developers provide their own open space for
recreation areas and facilities, it has the effect of reducing the demand for
local public recreational services. Depending on the size of development, a
portion of the park and recreation areas in subdivisions or developments may,
at the option of the village, be provided in the form of "private" open space
in lieu of dedicated "public" open space. The extent of same shall be
determined by the village, based on the type of recreational needs of the
projected residents and in conformance to the total park and recreational land
requirements or the general area pursuant to Table I.
      (2)   In general, a substitution of private open space for dedication of
parks will imply a substantially higher degree of improvement and the
installation of recreational facilities, including equipment by the subdivider
or developer as part of his obligation. Detailed plans of such areas, including
specifications or facilities to be installed, must be approved by the village,
and before any credit is given for private recreation areas, the subdivider or
developer must establish a permanent system of maintenance with the execution
of the appropriate legal documents. When an adjustment for private recreation
areas is warranted, it will be necessary to compute the total park dedication
that would have been required from the subdivision or planned unit development
and then subtract the credit to be given.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 153.149 RESERVATION OF ADDITIONAL LAND.
   Where the Comprehensive Plan or the standards of the village call for a
larger amount of park and recreational land in a particular subdivision or
planned unit development than the developer is required to dedicate, the land
needed beyond the developer's contribution shall be reserved and designated for
subsequent purchase by the village or other public body designated by the
village; provided that within one year from the approval of the final plat, the
designated public body signs a contract to purchase the land or files a
condemnation suit in pursuit thereof.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 153.150 COMBINING WITH ADJOINING DEVELOPMENT.
   Where the subdivision or development is less than 40 acres, public open
space which is to be dedicated should, where possible, be combined with
dedications from adjoining developments in order to produce usable recreation
area without hardship on a particular developer.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 153.151 IMPROVED SITES.
   All sites shall be dedicated in a condition ready for full service of
electrical, gas, telephone and other utility lines, water, sewer, and streets
(including enclosed drainage and curb and gutter), as applicable to the
location of the site, and shall otherwise comply with Village Code
requirements. In addition, all sites shall be suitable for constructing a park
facility and shall be free of any environmental contamination.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 153.152 SHAPE, TOPOGRAPHY AND GRADING.
   (A)   The shape, topography and geology of the dedicated site, as well as
its surroundings, must be suitable for its intended purposes. The bulk of the
intensive park or recreation area should have a width/depth ratio of ½, unless
otherwise accepted by the village.
   (B)   At least 50% of the dedicated land shall be buildable for permanent
structures as determined through the appropriate topographical studies and soil
tests.
   (C)   All land required for dedication for park purposes shall be in
addition to that required by other ordinances or regulations. Wetlands and
floodplains may be accepted for village ownership and maintenance but shall not
serve as a credit toward the park site contribution. Stormwater detention areas
shall not be accepted for village ownership and maintenance, and the portion of
a detention area designed to function primarily as a component of the
stormwater control system shall not serve as a credit toward the required site
contribution. Retention areas shall not be accepted for village ownership and
maintenance and shall not serve as a credit toward the required park site
contribution.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 153.153 SALE OR EXCHANGE OF DEDICATED PARK.
   If, following the village's acceptance of park dedicated to it in accordance
with conditions of approval of any tentative parcel map for a subdivision, the
Village Board determined that there is another site available that would more
suitable to serve the park and recreational needs of future inhabitants of such
subdivision, or that there is another site available that could be developed,
operated, and maintained in a manner which meets the needs of the future
inhabitants of the subdivision for park facilities at a cost significantly less
than the cost of developing, operating and maintaining the dedicated land for
park or recreational purposes, then the Village Board may either sell the
dedicated land and use the proceeds from such sale to acquire and develop such
other site for park and recreational purposes, or may exchange the dedicated
land for such other site.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 153.154 OBJECTIONS.
   All objections relating to any application of this chapter to a particular
subdivision or planned unit development shall first be referred to the Planning
Commission for hearing. An objection must be made, if at all, prior to the
approval by the Village of the final plat. A failure to object by such time
shall constitute a waiver of the right to object to the provisions of this
chapter. Duties of the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall serve
in an advisory capacity and shall have the following duties:
   (A)   Advise and assist the village in resolving objections regarding the
fair market value of the land used to calculate the cash contribution in §
153.146, or any other application of this chapter to a particular subdivision
or planned development.
   (B)   The village may adopt procedural rules to be used by the Planning
Commission in carrying out the duties imposed by this chapter.
   (C)   The village shall make available to the Planning Commission all
professional reports relating to the valuation of land used in calculating
these fees or any other issue which may arise under this chapter. The Planning
Commission may also retain the services of professionals (attorneys,
appraisers, statisticians, etc.) to assist it in its review of issues raised by
any objection.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021)
WATER AND SEWER ACREAGE AND IMPACT FEES
§ 153.170 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   To ensure that new development pays for its fair share of public facilities,
the village has adopted a fee structure to finance, defray or reimburse the
village for all or a portion of the costs of public facilities which serve new
development (Ordinance 2007-05).
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 153.171 FEE ASSESSMENT.
   Fees shall be collected by the Village Clerk at the time, and as a condition
of approval by the Board of the final plat. Costs outlined in the Ordinance
Establishing a Development Impact Fee for the Village of Diamond (Ordinance
2007-05) shall be adjusted annually based on the change in the Construction
Cost Index (CCI) for Chicago published by Engineering News-Record (EN-R). In
the event that the developer chooses to pay the required fee over a maximum of
a 4-year period, or as facilities become available, the following conditions
shall apply:
   (A)   Each installment shall be based on the current year per acre and per
front-foot.
   (B)   A non-expiring bond, letter of credit or other acceptable financial
security as approved by the Village Board, shall be provided in the amount
equal to the balance of the impact fee due.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021)
ENFORCEMENT; PENALTIES
§ 153.995 NON-CONFORMING WORK.
   If at any time any work is performed which is not in accordance with this
chapter or a permit covered by this chapter, including conditions and approved
modifications thereof, a written notice to comply shall be given by the Zoning
Administrator stating the nature and location of the alleged non-compliance and
specifying what remedial steps are necessary to bring the project into
compliance. The responsible parties shall have such time as may be allowed in
writing by the Zoning Administrator to correct all noted deficiencies. The time
allowed shall be reasonable and shall be determined by the nature of the
deficiency and whether or not it creates a nuisance or hazard.
(Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty,
see §
153.999
§ 153.996 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A permit may be revoked or suspended by the Zoning Administrator. The
permit holder may request in writing, within 10 days of the permit revocation,
a hearing before the Village Board or its designated committee. The permit
holder shall have an opportunity to be heard, present evidence, and cross
examine witnesses at such hearing. The decision of the Village Board or its
designated committee shall be final and any further appeal shall be in the
Circuit Court of Grundy County, Illinois. Written notice shall be given to the
permit holder specifying the grounds for such contemplated revocation or
suspension, and advising the permit holder of the date, place, and time of the
hearing before the Village Board.
   (B)   A permit may be revoked or suspended upon the occurrence of anyone of
the following events:
      (1)   Violation of any condition of the permit;
      (2)   Violation of any provision of this chapter or any other applicable
law or ordinances, or duly adopted enactments of the village, including but not
limited to the delinquency or nonpayment of any fee, sum or other financial
debt owed to the village, or the default in the performance of any obligation
owed the village; or
      (3)   Existence of any condition or the doing of any act constituting or
creating a nuisance, hazard, or endangering human life or property of others.
Upon revocation of any permit and in cases where a permit is suspended, the
Zoning Administrator shall issue a stop work order on all construction activity
on the permit holder's property which is being performed pursuant to any
permits, licenses, franchises or contracts issued or approved by the village.
Notices and orders required by this chapter shall be served upon the parties
concerned, either personally or by certified mail, addressed to the individual
contracting party or permit holder at the address given on the contract
document or permit application filed with the village.
(Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty,
see §
153.999
§ 153.997 CIVIL ACTION.
   The village may institute actions or proceedings at law or in equity for the
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty,
see §
153.999
§ 153.998 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Village Zoning Administrator is the enforcing officer of this chapter,
and it shall be his or her duty to enforce the provisions hereof. The enforcing
officer may call upon any department or employee of the village to furnish such
information and assistance as deemed necessary for the administration or
enforcement of this chapter, and it shall be the duty of such department or
employee to furnish such information and assistance whenever requested.
(Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty,
see §
153.999
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall construct, enlarge, alter, repair
or maintain any development or construction project, or cause the same to be
done, contrary to or in violation of any provisions of §§
153.070 through
153.082. In addition to any other penalty authorized by this chapter, any
person convicted of violating any of the provisions of §§
153.071 through
153.082 shall be required to restore the site to the condition existing prior
to commission of the violation, or to bear the expense of such restoration.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, any person, firm or corporation
violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $750 for each offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2007-15, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021)
APPENDIX A: APPLICATION FEES FOR LAND DEVELOPMENT
TYPE FEE
TYPE                                FEE
Annexation Agreement                Professional Fee Agreement and Deposit
                                    $5,000
Site Plan Review Committee Meeting  Professional Fee Agreement Deposit $5,000
                                    and $250
Zoning Map Amendment (Rezoning)     $1,000
Special Use Permit                  $1,000
Variance Residential                $250
Variance Non-Residential            $500
                                    Professional Fee Agreement Deposit $5,000
Planned Unit Development (PUD)      and
                                    $100 per acre (minimum acreage $1,000)
                                    Professional Fee Agreement Deposit $5,000
Vacation of Public Right-of-Way     and
                                    $250
                                    Professional Fee Agreement Deposit $5,000
Preliminary/Final Plat              $500 (5 lots or less) $1,000 (exceeding 5
                                    lots)
Appeals of Administrative Decisions $1,200
Minor Site Plan Review (no meeting) $100
Special Meeting - Planning & Zoning $1,200
Board
Special Meeting - Village Board     $1,200
 
(Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021)
APPENDIX B: FINAL PLAT CERTIFICATES
OWNERSHIP/DEVELOPER CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
               )
COUNTY OF GRUNDY/WILL   )
   This is to certify the                                                    
are the owners of the land described in the annexed plat, and that they have
caused the same to be surveyed and subdivided as indicated hereon, for the uses
and purposes therein set forth that they hereby dedicate to the public for use
as streets any right or title they may have to any land noted on the plat as
streets, and that they do hereby acknowledge and adopt the same under the style
and title hereon indicated.
Dated this              day of                                       , 20     .
NOTARY CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
               )
COUNTY OF GRUNDY/WILL   )
   I,                                       , a Notary Public, in and for said
county, to the state aforesaid, do herby certify that the people whose
signatures appear in the “ownership certificate” are personally known to me to
be the same persons whose names are subscribed to the foregoing instrument as
such Owners and that they appeared before me this day in person and
acknowledged that they signed and delivered the annexed plat as their own free
and voluntary act for the purposes therein set forth.
Given under my hand and Notarial Seal at
                                              Illinois this         day of
                                , 20      .
                                            , Notary Public
SURVEYOR’S CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
               )
COUNTY OF GRUNDY/WILL   )
   This is to certify that I,
                                                                  , Illinois
Professional Land Surveyor Number                             have surveyed and
subdivided the following described property:
                                                                              
dividing the same into lots as shown by the annexed plat which is a correct
representation of said survey and subdivision. All distances are shown in feet
and decimals thereof. I further certify that all regulations enacted by the
Village Board relative to subdivisions have been complied with in the
preparation of this plat.
Given under my hand and Notarial Seal at
                                              Illinois this         day of
                                , 20      .
                                              L.P.L.S. #
                             
TOPOGRAPHY
   To the best of my knowledge no part of this subdivision is located within a
special flood hazard area as identified by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency, FIRM Maps, and Panel Number                                            
dated                                          .
Dated this          day of                                     , 20      .
                                                 , County Clerk
COUNTY CLERK’S CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
               )
COUNTY OF GRUNDY/WILL   )
To Whom It May Concern:
I,                                                 , County Clerk of Grundy or
Will County, Illinois, and custodian of the records and files of said office,
do hereby certify that I find from such records and files, no delinquent
general taxes, no unpaid current general taxes, no delinquent special
assessments on file against the tract of land described on the attached plat of
                                                  , and that there are no
unpaid deferred installments of special assessments outstanding against the
said property or any part thereof.
Dated at Morris or Joliet, Illinois this          day of
                                      , 20      .
                                          , County Clerk      
 
COUNTY RECORDER’S CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
               )
COUNTY OF GRUNDY/WILL   )
   This instrument Number                        was filed for recording in the
Recorder’s Office of Grundy or Will aforesaid on the          day of
                                 A.D., 20      , at          o’clock    . M.,
and recorded in Book               of Plats at Page                  .
                                                       Grundy/Will County
Recorder
(Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021)
APPENDIX C: UNINCORPORATED AREAS FINAL PLAT CERTIFICATES
CERTIFICATE OF TOWNSHIP HIGHWAY COMMISSIONER
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
               )
COUNTY OF GRUNDY/WILL   )
   I,                                                     , Township Highway
Commissioner, do hereby certify that all matters pertaining to the highway
requirements as prescribed in the regulation governing plats adopted by the
County Board of Grundy or Will County insofar as they pertain to the annexed
plat have been complied with.
Dated this                day of                                      ,
20      .
                                                        Highway Commissioner
CERTIFICATE OF COUNTY SUPERINTENDENT OF HIGHWAYS
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
               )
COUNTY OF GRUNDY/WILL   )
   I,                                                         , County
Superintendent of Highways of said County, do hereby certify that the annexed
plat has been examined by me and found to comply with the highway requirements
as set forth in the regulations governing plats of subdivided land adopted by
the County Board of Grundy or Will County, Illinois.
Dated this                day of                                      ,
20      .
                                                        County Superintendent
of Highways
COUNTY PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
               )
COUNTY OF GRUNDY/WILL   )
   Approved by the Grundy/Will County Board, Morris or Joliet, Illinois at a
meeting held on the _____ day of                                   , 20      .
                                                       ,Chairman
                              , County Clerk
 
GRUNDY OR WILL COUNTY BOARD
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
               )
COUNTY OF GRUNDY/WILL   )
   Approved by the Grundy or Will County Board, Morris or Joliet, Illinois at a
meeting held on the           day of                                  ,
20      .   
                                                       ,Chairman
                              , County Clerk
(Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021)
APPENDIX D: FINAL PLAT CERTIFICATES FOR AREAS WITHIN CORPORATE BOUNDARIES
DIAMOND VILLAGE BOARD
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
               )
COUNTY OF GRUNDY/WILL   )
   Approved by the Board of Commissioners of the Village of Diamond a meeting
held on the         day of                                 , 20      .
                                           Mayor
                                              Village Clerk
 
DIAMOND PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
               )
COUNTY OF GRUNDY/WILL   )
   Approved by the Village of Diamond Planning and Zoning Commission at a
meeting held on the _____ day of                          , 20____.
                                                       , Chairman
                              , Secretary
 
VILLAGE ENGINEER
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
               )
COUNTY OF GRUNDY/WILL   )
   Approved by the Village Engineer of the Village of Diamond on the           
day of                       , 20      .
                                                       , Village Engineer
(Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021)
APPENDIX E: SAMPLE IRREVOCABLE LETTER OF CREDIT
SAMPLE IRREVOCABLE LETTER OF CREDIT
   (On Bank/Issuer Letterhead)
BENEFICIARY:   Village of Diamond          APPLICANT:
                                             
   1750 E. Division Street
   Diamond, Illinois 60416
DATE:                                                   NUMBER:
                                                  
EXPIRATION: [Not less than two years from date first above named]
PRINCIPAL AMOUNT:                                                
Ladies and Gentlemen:
   We hereby issue this Irrevocable Letter of Credit (the “Credit”) in your
favor up to the aggregate amount of U.S. [insert dollar amount equal to 125% of
the costs of completing all public improvements required of the developer or
subdivider together with the costs of performing all other obligations for
which financial security is required under the ordinances of the village, or
under the terms of any relevant annexation agreement, development agreement or
performance guarantee agreement].
   This Credit is issued to secure the completion and installation of [list all
public improvements required of the developer or subdivider, either
specifically, by reference to any relevant annexation agreement or performance
guarantee agreement, or by citation to pertinent sections of the village
ordinances] and the performance of [list all other obligations of the developer
or subdivider for which financial security is required under the ordinances of
the village, or under the terms of any relevant annexation agreement,
development agreement or performance guarantee agreement], all on or before
[insert a date which is at least 90 days before the expiration date of the
Credit].
   We engage with you that we will fully honor any draft drawn at sight under
this Credit provided that:
   1.   Such draft is presented at our counters on or before [the above-stated
expiration date], or before such other extended expiration date as may result
from any automatic renewal of this Credit as hereinafter set forth;
   2.   Such draft is accompanied by this original Credit;
   3.   Such draft is marked “Drawn under [Issuer's] Irrevocable Letter of
Credit No.                     , dated [insert date first above named];
   4.   Such draft is accompanied by either (a) a statement signed by the
Village Mayor and the Village Engineer certifying that as of the date of such
draft, the [developer or subdivider] has failed or defaulted in [the completion
and installation of all public improvements required of the developer or
subdivider, and/or the performance of any other obligation for which financial
security is required under the ordinances of the village, or under the terms of
any relevant annexation agreement, development agreement or performance
guarantee agreement], or (b) a statement signed by the Village Mayor certifying
that the Village of Diamond has received written notice of [Issuer’s] election
riot to renew this Credit for an additional 1-year term as hereinafter set
forth.
   The principal amount of this Credit shall automatically be deemed to be
reduced by the amount of any drafts drawn hereunder and honored by [Issuer].
Furthermore, the principal amount of this Credit may from time to time be
reduced to such amounts as may be approved in writing by the Village of Diamond
Board of Commissioners pursuant to the written recommendation of the Village
Engineer, provided, however, that neither the issuance of this Credit nor any
such reduction shall constitute any waiver of any rights that the Village of
Diamond may have against [developer or subdivider], nor shall the issuance of
this Credit or any such reduction serve to limit, modify or otherwise excuse
the [developer or subdivider's] performance of any other obligation owed to the
Village of Diamond. However, unless and until the Village Board of
Commissioners accepts in writing and pursuant to the written recommendation of
the Village Engineer [the completion and installation of all public
improvements required of the developer or subdivider, and/or the performance of
any other obligation for which financial security is required under the
ordinances of the village, or under the terms of any relevant annexation
agreement, development agreement or performance guarantee agreement], in no
event shall the Village of Diamond Board of Commissioners and Village Engineer
be obligated to issue or recommend in writing any reduction of this Credit
which would reduce the then-current principal balance of this Credit to an
amount which is less than the sum of (a) 10% of the original principal amount
of this Credit, and (b) the Village Engineer’s estimate of the cost necessary
to [complete the construction and installation of all public improvements
required of the developer or subdivider, and/or the performance of any other
obligation for which financial security is required under the ordinances of the
village, or under the terms of any relevant annexation agreement, development
agreement or performance guarantee agreement].
   Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this Credit shall
automatically renew itself for successive terms of 1 year from the above-stated
expiration date or any future expiration date and without other amendment or
modification hereto unless and until the Mayor of the Village of Diamond and
the Village Attorney receives, not less than 90 days before the above-stated
expiration date or any future expiration date, written notice from [Issuer],
via registered mail, return receipt requested or via nationally recognized
overnight courier, that [Issuer] elects not to renew this Credit for any such
additional successive terms. All drafts drawn at sight hereunder during any
such additional successive term shall be fully honored by [Issuer] when
presented at our counters in accordance with the terms hereinabove set forth.
In the event that the Mayor of the Village of Diamond receives such a notice
from the [Issuer] prior to the expiration of the then-current term of this
Credit, then the Village may at any time thereafter within such then-current
term of this Credit draw its draft on sight for the remaining balance of this
Credit in accordance with the terms and conditions hereinabove set forth.
   In the event that [Issuer] fails to honor any draft of the Village of
Diamond drawn under this Credit and in conformity with its terms, [Issuer]
shall pay to the Village of Diamond, in addition to any and all damages
resulting from such dishonor, all attorney, expert witness fees, professional
service fees, court costs incurred by the Village of Diamond in connection with
its efforts to obtain the honor of such draft, regardless of whether or not
litigation ensues in relation thereto. The Thirteenth Circuit Court, Grundy
County, shall be the sole and exclusive venue for any and all litigation so
ensuing from any dispute involving or arising from this Credit.
   This Credit is subject to the provisions of Article 5 of the Uniform
Commercial Code, ILCS Ch. 810, Act 5, §§ 5-101 et seq. Furthermore, this Credit
is subject to the then-current Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary
Credits (the “UCP”), International Chamber of Commerce Publication No. 500, as
revised from time to time, except to the extent that the UCP conflicts with the
Article 5, or with an express term of this Credit.
                     Very truly yours,
                     [Issuer]
                     BY:
                                                                  
                     ITS:
                                                                 
                     ATTEST:
                                                          
                     ITS:
                                                                  
(Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021)
APPENDIX F: WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM MATERIAL SPECIFICATIONS LIST
Water main        DR18C-990
Valve stabilizers Clow resilient wedge w/valve box
                  Clow medallion 5 1/2-foot bury, flanged shoe, red. Equipped
Fire hyrdrant     with one 4 1/2-inch streamer port and two 2 1/2-inch ports
                  with national standard fire threads
Main saddle       ROMAC 202N
Curb stop         McDonald 6104B
Corp. stop        McDonald 4701Q
Curb stop box     1 1/4-inch Minneapolis pattern McDonald 5614
Trace wire        #8 AWG solid insulated copper to be installed outside of
                  valve box
NOTE: All MJ joints shall be PVC megal-lugges, all USA made.
 
(Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-9-2021)
CHAPTER 154: BUILDING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Authority
   
154.02   Purpose
   
154.03   Jurisdiction
   
154.04   Interpretation
   
154.05   Adoption of technical codes
   
154.06   Supplemental regulations
Administration
   
154.20   General provisions
   
154.21   Building Official
Building Code
   
154.35   International Building Code - 2015
   
154.36   International Residential Code - 2015
   
154.37   International Fuel Gas Code - 2015
   
154.38   International Mechanical Code - 2015
   
154.39   International Energy Conservation Code - 2015
   
154.40   International Property Maintenance Code - 2015
   
154.41   International Existing Building Code - 2015
   
154.42   National Electrical Code - 2014
   
154.43   Illinois State Accessibility Code, current edition
   
154.44   Illinois Plumbing Code, current edition
   
154.45   International Fire Code - 2015
   
154.46   International Swimming Pool and Spa Code - 2015
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 AUTHORITY.
   The Building Code of the Village of Diamond is authorized pursuant to
authority granted under the Illinois Municipal Code, including but not limited
to Division 30 of the Illinois Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-30-1,
et seq. (2016 State Bar Edition)).
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 1-23-2018)
§ 154.02 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted to provide for the minimum requirements to safeguard
life or limb, health, and the public safety and welfare and the protection of
property by regulating and controlling the construction, alteration,
maintenance, removal, demolition, equipment, materials, use and occupancy of
all buildings and structures within the Village of Diamond.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 1-23-2018)
§ 154.03 JURISDICTION.
   The territorial jurisdiction of this chapter shall include all of the
Village of Diamond.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 1-23-2018)
§ 154.04 INTERPRETATION.
   For purposes of interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements. No provision of this chapter
is intended to repeal, abrogate, annul, impair or interfere with any existing
ordinance of the Village of Diamond, except as is specifically repealed by
adoption of this chapter, provided that where any provision of this chapter
imposes more stringent regulations, requirements or limitations than are
imposed by any other ordinance of the Village of Diamond, or any applicable
statute or regulation of the State of Illinois, then the provisions of this
chapter shall govern.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 1-23-2018)
§ 154.05 ADOPTION OF TECHNICAL CODES.
   Each of the following technical codes, are hereby adopted by reference:
   (A)   International Building Code, 2015 edition, including Appendix C, Group
U-Agricultural Buildings; Appendix F, Rodent Proofing; Appendix H, Signs; and
Appendix I, Patio Covers, as published by the International Code Council;
   (B)   International Residential Code, 2015 edition, including Appendix E,
Manufactured Housing Use as Dwellings; Appendix F, Radon Control Methods;
Appendix H, Patio Covers; Appendix J, Existing Buildings and Structures;
Appendix K, Sound Transmission; Appendix O, Automatic Vehicular Gates as
published by the International Code Council;
   (C)   International Fuel Gas Code, 2015 edition, as published by the
International Code Council;
   (D)   International Mechanical Code, 2015 edition, as published by the
International Code Council;
   (E)   International Energy Conservation Code, 2015 edition, as published by
the International Code Council;
   (F)   International Property Maintenance Code, 2015 edition, as published by
the International Code Council, including Appendix A, Boarding Standard;
   (G)   International Existing Building Code, 2015 edition, as published by
the International Code Council, including Appendix B, Supplementary
Accessibility Requirements for Existing Buildings and Facilities;
   (H)   NFPA 70, National Electrical Code, 2014 edition, as published by the
National Fire Protection Association;
   (I)   Illinois State Accessibility Code, current edition, as published by
the Illinois Capital Development Board;
   (J)   Illinois State Plumbing Code, current edition, as published by the
Illinois Department of Public Health;
   (K)   International Fire Code, 2015 edition, as published by the
International Code Council; and
   (L)   International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2015 edition, as published
by the International Code Council.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 1-23-2018)
§ 154.06 SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   This chapter, including the rules and regulations it adopts by reference, is
entitled the “Village of Diamond Building Code”. The “number” and/or “letter”
designation used to set off or identify its various parts refers to paragraphs
of the text. Reference to any one of these paragraphs may be by such number
and/or letter designation alone.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 1-23-2018)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.20 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Title. This chapter shall be known as the Village of Diamond Building
Code.
   (B)   Citations. In citing this chapter, section numbers shall be used
except in cases where codes have been adopted and incorporated by reference, in
which case the section shall be followed by sections used in such code adopted
and incorporated by reference.
   (C)   Substitutions. Where codes have been adopted and incorporated by
reference, the words “Village of Diamond” shall be substituted for words
referring to the applicable municipality and where such codes contain
provisions which are in conflict with specific provisions of this subchapter
the specific provisions of this subchapter shall prevail and shall rule.
   (D)   Meaning of references to other codes. Where ever this chapter refers
to a building code, such reference shall be construed to mean the Village of
Diamond Building Code adopted in this chapter.
   (E)   Zoning. The restrictions of the zoning regulations and all amendments
thereto, shall not be deemed to be modified by any provision of this chapter;
and such restrictions shall be controlling except insofar as this chapter
imposes greater restrictions, in which case the provisions of this chapter
shall control.
   (F)   Legislative. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of
this chapter is, or shall be for any reason held to be invalid, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this chapter. The
Village Board hereby declares that it would have adopted this chapter, and each
section, subsection, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that
any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses and phrases be
declared invalid.
   (G)   Compliance required. It shall be unlawful to design, construct, alter,
move, enlarge, replace, repair, demolish, remove, use or maintain property,
buildings or structures in the village in violation of the terms and provisions
of this chapter.
   (H)   Application to existing permits. This chapter shall not be construed
to extend to or affect any construction activity for which a permit was issued
or application for permit filed prior to the effective date hereof, unless the
Building Official determines that any provision of this chapter or the
regulations incorporated herein by reference should be applied for reasons of
public health and safety.
   (I)   Penalties. Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms and
provisions of this chapter shall be liable for a penalty in the amount of 100%
of any unpaid fee and, in addition, shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99 of the Village Code.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 1-23-2018)
§ 154.21 BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   Office created. The office of the Building Official for the Village is
hereby created.
   (B)   Appointment. The Building Official shall be appointed by the Village
Mayor with the advice and consent of the Village Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   Duties. Duties of the Building Official shall include administration
and enforcement of the Building Code for the Village. The Building Official
shall have the authority to issue building permits, certificates of occupancy
and stop work orders. The Building Official shall have the authority to engage
professional building inspectors, construction plan reviewers and Building Code
enforcement officers as the Building Official deems necessary.
   (D)   Action on applications. The Building Official shall not issue any
permits or certificates of occupancy provided for in this chapter without first
having received the applicable fees for that permit or certificate. In the
event an applicant for a permit or certificate, as provided for in this
chapter, is in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, including
the provisions regarding the payment of fees, with regard to any property in
the village, then the Building Official may withhold issuance of that permit or
certificate until the applicant complies with the applicable provisions of this
chapter. The violations of this chapter, as described above, may relate to the
property for which the permit or certificate is being requested, or may relate
to any other property located in the village.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 1-23-2018)
BUILDING CODE
§ 154.35 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE - 2015.
   (A)   Code adopted. There is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set
forth herein, that certain Building Code known as the International Building
Code - 2015 edition, including Appendix C, Group U-Agricultural Buildings;
Appendix F, Rodentproofing; Appendix H, Signs; and Appendix I, Patio Covers,
and as thereafter amended and on file with the Village Clerk as the Building
Code for the Village.
   (B)   Copies on file. At least one copy of the International Building Code-
2015 has been on file in the Village Hall for more than 30 days prior to the
adoption hereof and is now on file. The Building Official shall keep on file in
his or her office at least one copy of the International Building Code - 2015,
which shall be available for inspection.
   (C)   Special provisions. The following words, provisions, and paragraphs
are to be added to the following designated sections of the International
Building Code - 2015. These provisions supersede the requirements of the
indicated provisions of such code.
      101.1 Title: Insert Village of Diamond.
      101.4 Referenced codes (add to the end of the fourth line).
         Add: .. .as amended and adopted by the Village of Diamond.
      101.4.3 Plumbing. Delete the reference to the “International Plumbing
Code” and the “International Private Sewage Disposal Code” and replace then
with the “Illinois State Plumbing Code, current edition”.
      103 Department of Building Safety. Delete in its entirety and insert as
follows:
         The Building Official shall be charged with the enforcement of the
Building Code as amended herein.
      105.2 Work Exempt From Permit: Delete the following:
         Building: Number 2
      Add the following:
         Retaining walls with an unbalanced soil load of 30 inches or less in
height
      105.3 Application For Permit: Add the following:
         8.   Where applicable, describe the land in which the proposed work is
to be done by legal description, street address, and signed sealed copy of plat
of survey prepared by an Illinois Licensed Professional Land Surveyor.
      107.1 General: Shall be added as follows:
         Construction documents shall be dimensioned and drawn on 36" x 24"
paper and have an Illinois Licensed Professional Architect stamp on all pages,
or as required by the Illinois Architecture Practice Act of 1989. Deviations
from the size requirement may be approved by the Building Official,
      R109.4 Work Commencing Before Permit Issuance: Shall be added as follows:
         Persons who commence or complete work without obtaining the required
building permit, in addition to any other fines or penalties, shall be required
to pay a penalty prior to issuance of the building permit. The penalty for
commencing or completed work without obtaining the required building permit
shall be the cost of the standard building permit fee, with a maximum penalty
as set forth in Section
10.99 of the Village Code.
      109.6 Refunds: Shall be deleted in its entirety.
      113 Board of Appeals (Board of Appeals, delete section and insert):
         That any person, firm or corporation shall have the right to appeal a
decision of the Building Official to the Village Planning and Zoning
Commission. Means of appeal shall follow requirements set forth in Section
14.06, Appeals of Administration Decisions, of the Village Zoning Code.
      114.1 Unlawful Acts: Shall read as follows:
         It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, alter, extend, repair, move, remove, demolish or occupy any
building, structure or equipment regulated by the International Building Code
or amendments to the International Building Code as herein provided, or cause
same to be done, in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of
the International Building Code or amendments to the International Building
Code as herein provided.
      114.2 Notice Of Violation: Shall read as follows:
         The Building Official is authorized to serve a notice of violation or
order on the person responsible for the erection, construction, alteration,
extension, repair, moving, removal, demolition or occupancy of a building or
structure in violation of the provisions of the International Building Code or
amendments to the International Building Code as herein provided, or In
violation of a permit certificate Issued under the provisions of the
International Building Code. Such order shall direct the discontinuance of the
illegal action or condition and the abatement of the violation. Administrative
notices are attempts to secure voluntary compliance and are not the start of
prosecution for jurisdictional purposes.
      114.3 Prosecution Of Violation: Shall read as follows:
         If the notice of violation is not complied with promptly, the Building
Official is authorized to request the legal counsel of the Village to institute
the appropriate proceeding at law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate
such violation, or to require the removal or termination of the unlawful
occupancy of the building or structure in violation of the provisions of the
International Building Code or amendments to the International Building Code as
herein provided or of the order or direction made pursuant thereto.
      114.4 Violation Penalties: Shall read as follows:
         Any person who violates a provision of the International Building Code
or amendments to the International Building Code as herein provided or fails to
comply with any of the requirements thereof or who erects, constructs, alters
or repairs a building or structure in violation of the approved construction
documents or directive of the Building Official, or of a permit or certificate
issued under the provisions of the International Building Code, shall be
subject to penalties as prescribed by law and as provided in Section 10.99 of
the Village Code. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
      115.1 Authority: Shall read as follows:
         Whenever the Building Official finds any work regulated by the
International Building Code, amendments to the International Building Code as
herein provided, or Village ordinances being performed in a manner either
contrary to the provisions of the International Building Code, amendments to
the International Building Code as herein provided, Village ordinances, or
dangerous or unsafe, the Building Official is authorized to issue a stop work
order,
      115.3 Unlawful Continuance: Shall read as follows:
         Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a
stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to
remove a violation or unsafe condition., shall be subject to penalties as
prescribed by law and as provided In Section
10.99 of the Village Code.
      116.5 Restoration (add to section):
         A structure declared unsafe by the Building Official may be restored
to safe condition as provided in Section 116.1 hereof; provided that if the
damage or cost of reconstruction or restoration is fifty percent (50%) or more
of Its current replacement value, it shall be made to conform, with respect to
materials and type of construction, to the requirements for new structures as
provided for In the Building Code. Replacement value is three times the
assessed valuation of the improvement (based on Information obtained from the
Grundy or Will County Assessor). When assessed valuation data is not available,
replacement value shall be determined by an insurance adjuster. If the property
is not insured and assessed value Information is not available, the average
quotes from a minimum of two general contractors shall be used.
      1612.3 Establishment Of Flood Hazard Areas: Insert Refer to Chapter 155,
Flood Damage Prevention, of the Village of Diamond Code of Ordinances.
      H101.2 Signs exempt from permits: Delete as follows:
         Number 1 - Painted non-illuminated signs.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 1-23-2018)
§ 154.36 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE - 2015.
   (A)   Code adopted. There is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set
forth herein, that certain Building Code known as the International Residential
Code - 2015 edition, including Appendix F, Radon Control Methods, Appendix H,
Patio Covers, Appendix J, Existing Buildings and Structures, Appendix K, Sound
Transmission; Appendix O, Automatic Vehicular Gates; and as thereafter amended
and on file with the Village Clerk, as the Residential Code for the Village.
   (B)   Copies on file. At least one copy of the International Residential
Code - 2015 has been on file in the Village Hall for more than 30 days prior to
the adoption hereof and is now on file. The Building Official shall keep on
file in his or her office at least one copy of the International Residential
Code - 2015, which shall be available for inspection.
   (C)   Special provisions. The following words, provisions, and paragraphs
are to be added to the following designated sections of the International
Residential Code - 2015. These provisions supersede the requirements of the
indicated provisions of such code.
      R101.1 Title: Insert Village of Diamond.
      R103 Department of Building Safety: Delete in its entirety and insert as
follows:
         The Building Official shall be charged with the enforcement of the
Residential Code as amended herein.
      R105.2 Work Exempt From Permit: Delete the following:
         Building: Numbers 10
      Add the following:
         Retaining walls with an unbalanced soil load of 30 inches or less in
height;
         Decks less than 200 square feet with an elevation less than 30 inches
above grade at any point.
      R105.3 Application For Permit: Add the following:
         8.   Where applicable, describe the land in which the proposed work is
to be done by legal description, street address, and signed sealed copy of plat
of survey prepared by an Illinois Licensed Professional Land Surveyor.
      R106.1.1 Information On Construction Documents: Shall be added as
follows:
         Construction documents shall be dimensioned and drawn on 36" x 24"
paper and have an Illinois Licensed Professional Architect stamp on all pages.
Deviations from the size requirements may be approved by the Building Official.
      R106.3.3 Phased Approval: Shall be deleted in its entirety.
      R108.5 Refunds: Shall be deleted in its entirety.
      R108.6 Work Commencing Before Permit Issuance: Shall be added as follows:
         Persons who commence or complete work without obtaining the required
building permit, in addition to any other fines or penalties, shall be required
to pay a penalty prior to issuance of the building permit. The penalty for
commencing or completing work without obtaining the required building permit
shall be the cost of the standard building permit fee, with a maximum penalty
as set forth in Section
10.99 of the Village Code.
      R112 Board Of Appeals (Board of Appeals, delete section and insert):
         That any person, firm or corporation shall have the right to appeal a
decision of the Building Official to the Village Planning and Zoning
Commission. Means of appeal shall follow requirements set forth in Section
14.06, Appeals of Administrative Decisions, of the Village Zoning Code.
      R113.1 Unlawful Acts: Shall read as follows:
         It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, alter, extend, repair, move, remove, demolish or occupy any
building, structure or equipment regulated by the International Residential
Code or amendments to the International Residential Code as herein provided, or
cause same to be done, in conflict with or in violation of any of the
provisions of the International Residential Code or amendments to the
International Residential Code as herein provided.
      R113.2 Notice Of Violation: Shall read as follows:
         The Building Official is authorized to serve a notice of violation or
order on the person responsible for the erection, construction, alteration,
extension, repair, moving, removal, demolition or occupancy of a building or
structure in violation of the provisions of the International Residential Code
or amendments to the International Residential Code as herein provided, or in
violation of a detail statement or a plan approved thereunder, or in violation
of a permit or certificate issued under the provisions of the International
Residential Code or amendments to the International Residential Code as herein
provided. Such order shall direct the discontinuance of the illegal action or
condition and the abatement of the violation. Administrative notices are
attempts to secure voluntary compliance and are not the start of prosecution
for jurisdictional purposes.
      R113.3 Prosecution Of Violation: Shall read as follows:
         If the notice of violation is not complied with promptly, the Building
Official is authorized to request the legal counsel of the Village institute
the appropriate proceedings at law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate
such violation, or to require the removal or termination of the unlawful
occupancy of the building or structure in violation of the provisions of the
International Residential Code or amendments to the International Residential
Code as herein provided or of the order or direction made pursuant thereto.
      R113.4 Violation Penalties: Shall read as follows:
         Any person who violates a provision of the International Residential
Code or amendments to the International Residential Code as herein provided or
fails to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who erects, constructs,
alters or repairs a building or structure in violation of the approved
construction documents or directive of the Building Official, or of a permit or
certificate issued under the provisions of the International Residential Code
or amendments to the International Residential Code as herein provided, shall
be subject to penalties as prescribed by law and as provided in Section
10.99 of the Village Code. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense.
      R114.1 Notice To Owner: Shall read as follows:
         Upon notice from the Building Official that work on any building or
structure is being prosecuted contrary to the provisions of the International
Residential Code or amendments to the International Residential Code as herein
provided or in an unsafe and dangerous manner, such work shall be immediately
stopped. The stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given to the
owner of the property involved, or to the owner’s agent or to the person doing
the work and shall state the conditions under which work will be permitted to
resume.
      R114.2 Unlawful Continuance: Shall read as follows:
         Any person who shall continue any work in or about the structure after
having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject
to penalties as prescribed by law and as provided in Section
10.99 of the Village Code.
      R114.3 Restoration (new subsection)
         R114.3 Restoration. A structure declared unsafe by the Building Code
may be restored to safe condition as provided in Section R114.1 hereof;
provided that if the damage or cost of reconstruction or restoration is fifty
percent (50%) or more of its current replacement value, it shall be made to
conform, with respect to materials and type of construction, to the
requirements for new structures as provided for in the Residential Code.
Replacement value is three times the assessed valuation of the improvement
(based on information obtained from the Grundy or Will County Assessor). When
assessed valuation data is not available, replacement value shall be determined
by an insurance adjuster. If the property is not insured and assessed value
information is not available, the average quotes from a minimum of two general
contractors shall be used.
      Table R301.2(1) Climatic And Geographic Design Criteria: Add as follows:
         Ground Snow Load: 25PSF
         Wind Speed (MPH): 115
         Design Topographic Effects: NO
         Special Wind Region: NO
         Wind-borne Debris Zone: NO
         Seismic Design Category: B
         Subject to Damage from Weathering: Severe
         Subject to Damage from Frost Line Depth: 42"
         Subject to Damage from Termite: Moderate
         Winter Design Temp: 0 Degrees Fahrenheit
         Ice Barrier Underlayment Required: YES
         Flood Hazards: Refer to Chapter 155, Flood Damage Prevention, of the
Village of
          Diamond Code of Ordinances.
         Air Freezing Index: 2000
         Mean Annual Temp: 50.5
      R302.3 Two-Family Dwellings: Shall read as follows:
         Dwelling units in two-family dwellings shall be separated from each
other by wall and floor assembled having not less than a 2-hour fire resistance
rating where tested in accordance with ASTM E 119 or UL 263. Fire-resistance-
rated floor/ceiling and wall assemblies shall extend to and be tight against
the exterior wall, and wall assemblies shall extend from the foundation to the
underside of the roof sheathing.
         Exceptions:
            1.   A fire-resistance rating of 1-hour shall be permitted in
buildings equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in
accordance with NFPA 13,13D, or 13R.
            2.   Wall assemblies need not extend through attic spaces where the
ceiling is protected by not less than 5/8-inch (15.9 mm) Type X gypsum board,
an attic draft stop constructed as specified in Section R302.12.1 is provided
above and along the wall assembly separating the dwellings, and the structural
framing supporting the ceiling is protected by not less than 1/2-inch (12.7 mm)
gypsum board or equivalent.
      R309.1 Floor Surface: Add the following after the last sentence:
         If a door opening occurs between the garage and dwelling, provide a
six inch (6") curb at the door, or construct garage floor six inches (6") lower
than adjoining floor. If a stairwell occurs in garage, a six inch (6") gas curb
in addition to a 36" minimum landing at the curb height shall be provided
around the stairwell. The foundation wall can serve as the gas curb provided
the highest elevation of the garage floor is six inches (6") below the top of
foundation.
      R313 Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems: Shall be deleted in its entirety.
      R315.3 Location:  Shall read as follows:
         Carbon monoxide alarms in dwelling units shall be installed outside of
each separate sleeping area within fifteen (15) feet of each bedroom or
sleeping area. Where a fuel-burning appliance is located within a bedroom or
its attached bathroom, a carbon monoxide alarm shall be installed within the
bedroom. Where a bedroom is located directly above a garage, or other motor
vehicle storage space, a carbon monoxide shall be installed within the bedroom.
      R319.1 Address Identification: Add the following after the last sentence:
         All multi-tenant residential dwelling units shall have additional
address numbering placed on the rear door, if appropriate, with the same
requirements noted above.
      R402.1 Wood Foundations: Shall be deleted in its entirety. Also, delete
all references to wood foundations.
      R903.6 Gutters And Downspouts: Add new section as follows:
         All structures shall be provided with gutters and downspouts unless
omission is specifically permitted by the Building Official.
      P2501-P3301 Illinois State Plumbing Code: Shall be added as follows:
         All plumbing work shall conform to the Illinois State Plumbing Code,
current edition, as amended by the Village of Diamond.
      P2603.5.1 Sewer Depth: Delete as follows:
         Building sewers that connect to private sewage disposal systems shall
be a not less than [NUMBER] inched (mm) below finished grade at the point of
septic tank connection.
      Insert as follows:
         Building sewers shall not be less than 42 inches below grade.
      E3401-4301 National Electric Code: Shall be added as follows:
         All electrical work shall conform to the National Electric Code-2014
edition.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 1-23-2018)
§ 154.37 INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE - 2015.
   (A)   Code adopted. There is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set
forth herein, that certain Building Code known as the International Fuel Gas
Code - 2015 edition, and as thereafter amended and on file with the Village
Clerk3 as the Fuel Gas Code for the Village.
   (B)   Copies On file. At least one copy of the International Fuel Gas Code -
2015 has been on file in the Village Hall for more than 30 days prior to the
adoption hereof and is now on file. The Building Official shall keep on file in
his or her office at least one copy of the International Fuel Gas Code - 2015,
which shall be available for inspection.
   (C)   Special provisions. The following words, provisions, and paragraphs
are to be added to the following designated sections of the International Fuel
Gas Code - 2015. These provisions supersede the requirements of the indicated
provisions of such code.
      101.1 Title: Insert Village of Diamond.
      103 Department of Inspection: Shall be deleted in its entirety and
replaced as follows:
         The Building Official shall be charged with the enforcement of the
Fuel Gas Code, as amended herein, and shall be known as the code official.
      106.6.1 Work Commencing Before Permit Issuance: Shall be added as
follows:
         Persons who commence or complete work without obtaining the required
building permit, in addition to any other fines or penalties, shall be required
to pay a penalty prior to issuance of the building permit. The penalty for
commencing or completing work without obtaining the required building permit
shall be the cost of the standard building permit fee, with a maximum penalty
as set forth in Section
10.99 of the Village Code.
      106.6.2 Fee Schedule: Shall be deleted in its entirety.
      106.6.3 Fee Refunds: Shall be deleted in its entirety.
      108.1 Unlawful Acts:  Shall read as follows:
         It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, alter, repair, remove, demolish or utilize an installation, or cause
same to be done, in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of
the International Fuel Gas Code or amendments to the International Fuel Gas
Code as herein provided.
      108.2 Notice Of Violation: Shall read as follows:
         The Building Official shall serve a notice of violation or order to
the person responsible for the erection, installation, alteration, extension,
repair, removal or demolition of work in violation of the provisions of the
International Fuel Gas Code or amendments to the International Fuel Gas Code as
herein provided, or in violation of a detail statement or the approved
construction documents thereunder, or in violation of a permit or certificate
issued under the provisions of the International Fuel Gas Code or amendments to
the International Fuel Gas Code as herein provided. Such order shall direct the
discontinuance of the illegal action or condition and the abatement of the
violation. Administrative notices are attempts to secure voluntary compliance
and are not the start of prosecution for jurisdictional purposes.
      108.3 Prosecution Of Violation: Shall read as follows:
         If the notice of violation is not complied with promptly, the Building
Official may request the legal counsel of the Village to institute the
appropriate legal proceedings at law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate
such violation, or to require the removal or termination of the unlawful
occupancy of the structure in violation of the provisions of the International
Fuel Gas Code or amendments to the International Fuel Gas Code as herein
provided or of the order or direction made pursuant thereto.
      108.4 Violation Penalties: Shall read as follows:
         Persons who shall violate a provision of the International Fuel Gas
Code or amendments to the International Fuel Gas Code as herein provided or
shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall erect,
install, alter or repair work in violation of the approved construction
documents or directive of the Building Official, or of a permit or certificate
issued under the provisions of the International Fuel Gas Code or amendments to
the International Fuel Gas Code as herein provided, shall be subject to
penalties as prescribed by law and as provided in Section
10.99 of the Village Code. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense.
      108.5 Stop Work Orders: Shall read as follows:
      Upon notice from the Building Official that work is being done contrary
to the provisions of the International Fuel Gas Code or amendments to the
International Fuel Gas Code as herein provided or in a dangerous or unsafe
manner, such work shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in writing and
shall be given to the owner of the property, or to the owner’s authorized
agent, or to the person doing the work. The notice shall state the conditions
under which work is authorized to resume. Where an emergency exists, the
Building Official shall not be required to give a written notice prior to
stopping the work. Any person who shall continue any work on the system after
having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be
punished as prescribed by law and as provided in Section
10.99 of the Village Code.
      108.6 Abatement Of Violation: Shall read as follows:
         The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not preclude
the Building Official from instituting appropriate action to prevent unlawful
construction, restrain, correct or abate a violation, prevent illegal occupancy
of a building, structure or premises, or stop an illegal act, conduct, business
or utilization of the installations on or about any premises.
      108.7 Unsafe Installations: Shall read as follows:
         An installation that Is unsafe, constitutes a fire or health hazard,
or is otherwise dangerous to human life, as regulated by the International Fuel
Gas Code or amendments to the International Fuel Gas Code as herein provided,
is hereby declared an unsafe installation. Use of an installation regulated by
the International Fuel Gas Code or amendments to the International Fuel Gas
Code as herein provided constituting a hazard to health, safety or welfare by
reason of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, fire hazard, disaster, damage
or abandonment is hereby declared an unsafe use. Such unsafe installations are
hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall be abated by repair,
rehabilitation, demolition or removal.
      108.7.1 Authority To Condemn Installations: Shall read as follows:
         Whenever the Building Official determines that any installation, or
portion thereof, regulated by the International Fuel Gas Code or amendments to
the International Fuel Gas Code as herein provided has become hazardous to
life, health or property, the Building Official shall order in writing that
such installations either be removed or restored to a safe condition. A time
limit for compliance with such order shall be specified in the written notice.
A person shall not use or maintain a defective installation after receiving
such notice. When such installation is to be disconnected, written notice as
prescribed in Section 108.2 of the International Fuel Gas Code as amended shall
be given. In cases of immediate danger to life or property, such disconnection
shall be made immediately without such notice.
      108.7.2 Authority To Disconnect Service Utilities: Shall read as follows:
         The Building Official shall have the authority to require
disconnection of utility service to the building, structure or system regulated
by the technical codes in case of emergency where necessary to eliminate an
immediate hazard to life or property. The Building Official shall notify the
serving utility, and wherever possible, the owner and occupant of the building,
structure or service system of the decision to disconnect prior to taking such
action. If not notified prior to disconnection, the owner or occupant of the
building, structure or service system shall be notified in writing, as soon as
practicable thereafter.
      108.73 Connection After Order To Disconnect: Shall read as follows:
         A person shall not make energy source connections to installations
regulated by the International Fuel Gas Code or amendments to the International
Fuel Gas Code as herein provided which have been disconnected or ordered to be
disconnected by the Building Official, or the use of which has been ordered to
be discontinued by the Building Official until the Building Official authorizes
the reconnection and use of such installations. When an Installation is
maintained in violation of the International Fuel Gas Code or amendments to the
International Fuel Gas Code as herein provided, and in violation of a notice
issued pursuant to the provisions of this section, the Building Official is
authorized to request the legal counsel of the Village to institute the
appropriate legal proceedings at law or in equity to prevent, restrain, correct
or abate the violation.
      Section 109 (IFGC) Means of Appeal: Shall be deleted in its entirety and
replaced as follows:
         That any person, firm or corporation shall have the right to appeal a
decision of the Building Official to the Village Planning and Zoning
Commission. Means of appeal shall follow requirements set forth in Section
14.06, Appeals of Administration Decisions, of the Village Zoning Code.
      301.6 Plumbing Connections: Shall be deleted in its entirety and replace
as follows:
         All plumbing work shall conform to the Illinois State Plumbing Code,
current edition, as amended by the Village of Diamond.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 1-23-2018)
§ 154.38 INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE - 2015.
   (A)   Code adopted. There is hereby adopted by reference as if folly set
forth herein, that certain Building Code known as the International Mechanical
Code - 2015 edition, and as thereafter amended and on file with the Village
Clerk, as the Mechanical Code for the Village.
   (B)   Copies on file. At least one copy of the International Mechanical Code
- 2015 has been on file in the Village Hall for more than 30 days prior to the
adoption hereof and is now on file. The Building Official shall keep on file in
his or her office at least one copy of the International Mechanical Code -
2015, which shall be available for inspection.
   (C)   Special provisions. The following words, provisions, and paragraphs
are to be added to the following designated sections of the International
Mechanical Code-2015. These provisions supersede the requirements of the
indicated provisions of such code.
      101.1 Title: Insert Village of Diamond.
      103 Department of Mechanical Inspection: Shall be deleted in its entirety
and replaced as follows:
         The Building Official shall be charged with the enforcement of the
Mechanical Code, as amended herein, and shall be known as the code official,
      106.5.1 Work Commencing Before Permit Issuance: Shall be added as
follows:
         Persons who commence or complete work without obtaining the required
building permit, in addition to any other fines or penalties, shall be required
to pay a penalty prior to issuance of the building permit. The penalty for
commencing or completing work without obtaining the required building permit
shall be the cost of the standard building permit fee, with a maximum penalty
as set forth in Section
10.99 of the Village Code.
      106.5.2 Fee Schedule: Shall be deleted in its entirety.
      106.5.3 Fee Refunds: Shall be deleted in its entirety.
      108.1 Unlawful Acts: Shall read as follows:
         It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, alter, repair, remove, demolish or utilize a mechanical system, or
cause same to be done, in conflict with or in violation of any of the
provisions of the International Mechanical Code or amendments to the
International Mechanical Code as herein provided.
      108.2 Notice Of Violation: Shall read as follows:
         The Building Official shall serve a notice of violation or order to
the person responsible for the erection, Installation, alteration, extension,
repair, removal or demolition of mechanical work In violation of the provisions
of the International Mechanical Code or amendments to the International
Mechanical Code as herein provided, or in violation of a detail statement or
the approved construction documents thereunder, or in violation of a permit or
certificate issued under the provisions of the International Mechanical Code or
amendments to the International Mechanical Code as herein provided. Such order
shall direct the discontinuance of the illegal action or condition and the
abatement of the violation. Administrative notices are attempts to secure
voluntary compliance and are not the start of prosecution for jurisdictional
purposes.
      108.3 Prosecution Of Violation: Shall read as follows:
         If the notice of violation is not complied with promptly, the Building
Official is authorized to request the legal counsel of the Village to Institute
the appropriate legal proceedings at law or in equity to restrain, correct or
abate such violation, or to require the removal or termination of the unlawful
occupancy of the structure in violation of the provisions of the International
Mechanical Code or amendments to the International Mechanical Code as herein
provided or of the order or direction made pursuant thereto.
      108.4 Violation Penalties: Shall read as follows:
         Persons who shall violate a provision of the International Mechanical
Code or amendments to the International Mechanical Code as herein provided or
shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall erect,
install, alter or repair mechanical work in violation of the approved
construction documents or directive of the Building Official, or of a permit or
certificate issued under the provisions of the International Mechanical Code or
amendments to the International Mechanical Code as herein provided, shall be
punished as prescribed by law and as provided in Section
10.99 of the Village Code. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense.
      108.5 Stop Work Orders: Shall read as follows:
         Upon notice from the Building Official that mechanical work is being
done contrary to the provisions of the International Mechanical Code or
amendments to the International Mechanical Code as herein provided, or In a
dangerous or unsafe manner, such work shall Immediately cease. Such notice
shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, or to the
owner’s agent, or to the person doing the work. The notice shall state the
conditions under which work is authorized to resume. Where an emergency exists,
the Building Official shall not be required to give a written notice prior to
stopping the work. Any person who shall continue any work on the system after
having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person Is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be
punished as prescribed by law and as provided In Section
10.99 of the Village Code.
      108.6 Abatement Of Violation: Shall read as follows:
         The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not preclude
the legal counsel of the Village from instituting appropriate action to prevent
unlawful construction or to restrain, correct or abate a violation, prevent
illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises, or stop an illegal act,
conduct, business or utilization of the mechanical systems on or about any
premises.
      108.7 Unsafe Mechanical Systems: Shall read as follows:
         A mechanical system that is unsafe, constitutes a fire or health
hazard, or is otherwise dangerous to human life, as regulated by the
International Mechanical Code or amendments to the International Mechanical
Code as herein provided, is hereby declared an unsafe mechanical system. Use of
a mechanical system regulated by the International Mechanical Code or
amendments to the International Mechanical Code as herein provided,
constituting a hazard to health, safety or welfare by reason of inadequate
maintenance, dilapidation, fire hazard, disaster, damage or abandonment is
hereby declared an unsafe use. Such unsafe equipment and appliances are hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation,
demolition or removal.
      108.7.1 Authority To Condemn Mechanical Systems: Shall read as follows:
         Whenever the Building Official determines that any mechanical system,
or portion thereof, regulated by the International Mechanical Code or
amendments to the International Mechanical Code as herein provided has become
hazardous to life, health or property, the Building Official shall order in
writing that such systems either be removed or restored to a safe condition. A
time limit for compliance with such order shall be specified in the written
notice. A person shall not use or maintain a defective mechanical system after
receiving such notice. When such mechanical system is to be disconnected,
written notice as prescribed in Section 108.2 of the International Mechanical
Code as amended shall be given. In cases of immediate danger to life or
property, such disconnection shall be made immediately without such notice.
      108.7.2 Authority To Order Disconnection Of Energy Sources: Shall read as
follows:
         The Building Official shall have the authority to require
disconnection of energy sources supplied to a building, structure or mechanical
system regulated by the International Mechanical Code or amendments to the
International Mechanical Code as herein provided, when it is determined that
the mechanical system or any portion thereof has become hazardous or unsafe.
Written notice of such order to disconnect service and the causes therefor
shall be given within 2 hours to the owner and occupant of such building,
structure or premises, provided, however, that in cases of immediate danger to
life or property, such disconnection shall be made immediately without such
notice. Where energy sources are provided by a public utility, the Building
Official shall immediately notify the serving utility in writing of the
issuance of such order to disconnect.
      108.7.3 Connection After Order To Disconnect: Shall read as follows:
         A person shall not make energy source connections to mechanical
systems regulated by the International Mechanical Code or amendments to the
International Mechanical Code as herein provided which have been disconnected
or ordered to be disconnected by the Building Official, or the use of which has
been ordered to be discontinued by the Building Official until the Building
Official authorizes the reconnection and use of such mechanical systems. When a
mechanical system is maintained in violation of the International Mechanical
Code or amendments to the International Mechanical Code as herein provided, and
in violation of a notice issued pursuant to the provisions of this section, the
Building Official is authorized to request the legal counsel of the Village to
institute the appropriate legal proceedings at law or in equity to prevent,
restrain, correct, or abate the violation.
      Section 109 Means of Appeal: Shall be deleted in its entirety and
replaced as follows:
         That any person, firm or corporation shall have the right to appeal a
decision of the Building Official to the Village Planning and Zoning
Commission. Means of appeal shall follow requirements set forth in Section
14.06, Appeals of Administration Decisions, of the Village Zoning Code.
      301.8 Plumbing Connections: Shall be deleted in its entirety and replace
as follows:
         All plumbing work shall conform to the Illinois State Plumbing Code,
current edition, as amended by the Village of Diamond.
§ 154.39 INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE - 2015.
   (A)   Code adopted. There is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set
forth herein, that certain Building Code known as the International Energy
Conservation Code - 2015, and as thereafter amended and on file with the
Village Clerk, as the Energy Conservation Code for the Village.
   (B)   Minimum requirements. The International Energy Conservation Code -
2015 shall be the minimum requirements for commercial buildings, applying to
the construction of, renovations to, and additions to all commercial buildings,
and the minimum requirements for residential buildings, applying to the
construction of, renovation to and additions to all residential buildings.
   (C)   Copies on file. At least one copy of the International Energy
Conservation Code - 2015 has been on file in the Village Hall for more than 30
days prior to the adoption hereof and is now on file. The Building Official
shall keep on file in his or her office at least one copy of the International
Energy Conservation Code - 2015, which shall be available for inspection.
   (D)   Special provisions. The following words, provisions, and paragraphs
are to be added to the following designated sections of the International
Energy Conservation Code - 2015. These provisions supersede the requirements of
the indicated provisions of such code.
      C101.1 Title: Insert Village of Diamond.
      C107.3 Work Commencing Before Permit Issuance: Shall be added as follows:
         Persons who commence or complete work without obtaining the required
building permit, in addition to any other fines or penalties, shall be required
to pay a penalty prior to issuance of the building permit. The penalty for
commencing or completing work without obtaining the required building permit
shall be the cost of the standard building permit fee, with a maximum penalty
as set forth in Section
10.99 of the Village Code.
      C107.5 Refunds: Shall be deleted in its entirety.
      C108.1 Authority: Shall read as follows:
         Whenever the Building Official finds any work regulated by the
International Energy Conservation Code or amendments to the International
Energy Conservation Code as herein provided dangerous or unsafe, the Building
Official is authorized to issue a stop work order.
      C108.3 Emergencies: Shall read as follows:
         Where an emergency exists, the Building Official shall not be required
to give a written notice prior to stopping the work.
      C108.4 Failure To Comply: Shall read as follows:
         Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a
stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to
remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be punished as prescribed by law
and as provided in Section 10.99 of the Village Code.
      C109 Board Of Appeals: Shall read as follows:
         That any person, firm or corporation shall have the right to appeal a
decision of the Building Official to the Village Planning and Zoning
Commission. Means of appeal shall follow requirements set forth in Section
14.06, Appeals of Administration Decisions, of the Village Zoning Code.
      R101.1 Title: Insert Village of Diamond.
      R107.3 Work Commencing Before Permit Issuance: Shall be added as follows:
         Persons who commence or complete work without obtaining the required
building permit, in addition to any other fines or penalties, shall be required
to pay a penalty prior to issuance of the building permit. The penalty for
commencing or completing work without obtaining the required building permit
shall be the cost of the standard building permit fee, with a maximum penalty
as set forth in Section
10.99 of the Village Code.
      R107.5 Refunds: Shall be deleted in its entirety.
      R108.1 Authority: Shall read as follows:
         Whenever the Building Official finds any work regulated by the
International Energy Conservation Code or amendments to the International
Energy Conservation Code as herein provided dangerous or unsafe, the Building
Official is authorized to issue a stop work order.
      R108.3 Emergencies: Shall read as follows:
         Where an emergency exists, the Building Official shall not be required
to give a written notice prior to stopping the work.
      R108.4 Failure To Comply: Shall read as follows:
         Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a
stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to
remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be punished as prescribed by law
and as provided in Section 10.99 of the Village Code.
      R109 Board Of Appeals: Shall read as follows:
         That any person, firm or corporation shall have the right to appeal a
decision of the Building Official to the Village Planning and Zoning
Commission, Means of appeal shall follow requirements set forth in Section
14.06, Appeals of Administration Decisions, of the Village Zoning Code.
   (E)   Noncompliance.
      C503.1 General, Exception and R503.1.1 Building Envelope, Exception:
 Shall be added as follows:
         8.   Glass only replacements in an existing sash and frame.
         9.   Replacement of existing doors that separate conditioned space
from the exterior shall not require the installation of a vestibule or
revolving door, provided, however, that an existing vestibule that separates a
conditioned space from the exterior shall not be removed.
         10.   Alterations that replace only the bulb and ballast within the
existing luminaires in a space provided that the alteration does not increase
the installed interior lighting power.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 1-23-2018)
§ 154.40 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE - 2015.
   (A)   Code adopted. There is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set
forth herein, that certain Building Code known as the International Property
Maintenance Code - 2015 edition, including Appendix A, Boarding Standards; and
as thereafter amended and on file with the Village Clerk, as the Property
Maintenance Code for the Village.
   (B)   Copies on file. At least one copy of the International Property
Maintenance Code - 2015 has been on file in the Village Hall for more than 30
days prior to the adoption hereof and is now on file. The Building Official
shall keep on file in his or her office at least one copy of the International
Property Maintenance Code-2015, which shall be available for inspection.
   (C)   Special provisions. The following words, provisions, and paragraphs
are to be added to the following designated sections of the International
Property Maintenance Code - 2015. These provisions supersede the requirements
of the indicated provisions of such code.
      101.1 Title: Insert Village of Diamond.
      103 Department of Property Maintenance Inspection: Shall be deleted in
its entirety and replaced as follows:
         The Building Official shall be charged with the enforcement of the
Property Maintenance Code, as amended herein, and shall be known as the code
official.
      106.1 Unlawful Acts: Shall read as follows:
         It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to be in
conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of the International
Property Maintenance Code or amendments to the International Property
Maintenance Code as herein provided.
      106.2 Notice Of Violation: Shall read as follows:
         The Building Official shall serve a notice of violation or order in
accordance with Section 107 of the International Property Maintenance Code.
Administrative notices are attempts to secure voluntary compliance and are not
the start of prosecution for jurisdictional purposes.
      106.3 Prosecution Of Violation: Shall read as follows:
         Any person failing to comply with a notice of violation or order
served in accordance with Section 107 of the International Property Maintenance
Code shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor or civil infraction and punished
as prescribed by law and as provided in Section
10.99 of the Village Code, and the violation shall be deemed a strict liability
offense. If the notice of violation is not complied with, the Building Official
is authorized to request the legal counsel of the Village to institute the
appropriate proceedings at law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate such
violation, or to require the removal or termination of the unlawful occupancy
of the structure in violation of the provisions of the International Property
Maintenance Code or amendments to the International Property Maintenance Code
as herein provided or of the order or direction made pursuant thereto. Any
action taken by the Village on such premises shall be charged against the real
estate upon which the structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real
estate.
      106.4 Violation Penalties: Shall read as follows:
         Any person who shall violate a provision of the International Property
Maintenance Code or amendments to the International Property Maintenance Code
as herein provided, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the
requirements thereof, shall be punished as prescribed by law and as provided in
Section
10.99 of the Village Code. Each day that a violation continues after due notice
has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
      106.5 Abatement Of Violation: Shall read as follows:
         The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not preclude
the Building Official from requesting the legal counsel of the Village to
institute the appropriate legal proceedings at law or in equity to restrain,
correct or abate a violation, or to prevent illegal occupancy of a building,
structure or premises, or to stop an illegal act, conduct, business or
utilization of the building, structure or premises.
      108.1 General: Shall read as follows:
         When a structure or equipment is found by the Building Official to be
unsafe, or when a structure is found unfit for human occupancy, or is found
unlawful, such structure shall be condemned pursuant to the provisions of the
International Property Maintenance Code or amendments to the International
Property Maintenance Code as herein provided.
      108.1.3 Structure Unfit For Human Occupancy: Shall read as follows:
         A structure is unfit for human occupancy whenever the Building
Official finds that such structure is unsafe, unlawful or, because of the
degree to which the structure is in disrepair or lacks maintenance, is
unsanitary, vermin or rat infested, contains filth and contamination, or lacks
ventilation, illumination, sanitary or heating facilities or other essential
equipment required by the International Property Maintenance Code or amendments
to the International Property Maintenance Code as herein provided, or because
the location of the structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants of the
structure or to the public.
      108.1.4 Unlawful Structure: Shall read as follows:
         An unlawful structure is one found in whole or in part to be occupied
by more persons than permitted under the International Property Maintenance
Code or amendments to the International Property Maintenance Code as herein
provided, or was erected, altered or occupied contrary to law.
      108.2.1 Authority To Disconnect Service Utilities: Shall read as follows:
         The Building Official shall have the authority to authorize
disconnection of utility service to the building, structure or system regulated
by the International Property Maintenance Code or amendments to the
International Property Maintenance Code as herein provided and the referenced
codes and standards set forth in Section 102.7 in case of emergency where
necessary to eliminate an immediate hazard to life or property when such
utility connection has been made without approval. The Building Official shall
notify the serving utility, and whenever possible, the owner and occupant of
the building, structure or service system of the decision to disconnect prior
to taking such action. If not notified prior to disconnection, the owner or
occupant of the building, structure or service system shall be notified in
writing, as soon as practicable thereafter.
      108.3 Notice: Shall read as follows:
         Whenever the Building Official has condemned a structure or equipment
under the provisions of this Section, notice shall be posted in a conspicuous
place in or about the structure affected by such notice and served on the owner
or the person or persons responsible for the structure or equipment in
accordance with Section 107.3 of the International Property Maintenance Code.
If the notice pertains to equipment, it shall also be placed on the condemned
equipment. The notice shall be in the form prescribed in Section 107.2 of the
International Property Maintenance Code.
      108.4 Placarding: Shall read as follows:
         Upon failure of the owner or person responsible to comply with the
notice provisions within the time given, the Building Official shall post on
the premises or on defective equipment a placard bearing the word “Condemned”
and a statement of the penalties provided for occupying the premises, operating
the equipment or removing the placard.
      108.4.1 Placard Removal: Shall read as follows:
         The Building Official shall remove the condemnation placard whenever
the defect or defects upon which the condemnation and placarding action were
based have been eliminated. Any person who defaces or removes a condemnation
placard without the approval of the Building Official shall be punished as
prescribed by law, the International Property Maintenance Code or amendments to
the International Property Maintenance Code as herein provided, and as provided
in Section
10.99 of the Village Code.
      108.5 Prohibited Occupancy: Shall read as follows:
         Any occupied structure condemned and placarded by the Building
Official shall be vacated as ordered by the Building Official Any person who
shall occupy a placarded premises or shall operate placarded equipment, and any
owner or any person responsible for the premises who shall let anyone occupy a
placarded premises or operate placarded equipment shall be liable for the
penalties provided by the International Property Maintenance Code or amendments
to the International Property Maintenance Code as herein provided, and as
provided in Section
10.99 of the Village Code.
      108.6 Abatement Methods: Shall read as follows:
         The owner, operator or occupant of a building, premises or equipment
deemed unsafe by the Building Official shall abate or cause to be abated or
corrected such unsafe conditions either by repair, rehabilitation, demolition
or other approved corrective action.
      109.1 Imminent Danger: Shall read as follows:
         When, in the opinion of the Building Official, there is imminent
danger of failure or collapse of a building or structure which endangers life,
or when any structure or part of a structure has fallen and life is endangered
by the occupation of the structure, or when there is actual or potential danger
to the building occupants or those in the proximity of any structure because of
explosives, explosive fumes or vapors or the presence of toxic fumes, gases or
materials, or operation of defective or dangerous equipment, the Building
Official is hereby authorized and empowered to order and require the occupants
to vacate the premises forthwith. The Building Official shall cause to be
posted at each entrance to such structure a notice reading as follows: “This
Structure Is Unsafe and Its Occupancy Has Been Prohibited by the Building
Officer”. It shall be unlawful for any person to enter such structure except
for the purpose of securing the structure, making the required repairs,
removing the hazardous condition or of demolishing the same.
      109.2 Temporary Safeguards: Shall read as follows:
         Notwithstanding other provisions of the International Property
Maintenance Code, whenever, in the opinion of the Building Official, there is
imminent danger due to an unsafe condition, the Building Official shall order
the necessary work to be done, including the boarding up of openings, to render
such structure temporarily safe whether or not the legal procedure herein
described has been instituted; and shall cause such other action to be taken as
the Building Official deems necessary to meet such emergency.
      109.3 Closing Streets: Shall read as follows:
         When necessary for public safety, the Building Official shall
temporarily close structures and close, or order the authority having
jurisdiction to close, sidewalks, streets, public ways and places adjacent to
unsafe structures, and prohibit the same from being utilized.
      109.4 Emergency Repairs: Shall read as follows:
         For the purpose of this Section, the Building Official shall employ
the necessary labor and materials to perform the required work as expeditiously
as possible.
      109.5 Costs Of Emergency Repairs: Shall read as follows:
         Costs incurred In the performance of emergency work maybe paid by the
Village- The legal counsel of the Village may Institute appropriate action
against the owner of the premises where the unsafe structure is or was located
for the recovery of such costs if paid by the Village. The cost thereof shall
be charged against the real estate upon which the structure is located and
shall be a lien upon such real estate and may be collected by any other legal
resource.
      109.6 Hearing: Shall read as follows:
         Any person ordered to take emergency measures shall comply with such
order forthwith. Any affected person shall thereafter upon petition directed to
the Village Planning and Zoning Commission as set forth in Section 111 of the
International Property Maintenance Code be afforded a hearing as described in
Section 111 of the International Property Maintenance Code.
      110.1 General: Shall read as follows:
         The Building Official shall order the owner of any premises upon which
is located any structure, which in the Building Official’s judgment after
review is so deteriorated or dilapidated or has become so out of repair as to
be dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary or otherwise unfit for human habitation or
occupancy, and such that it is unreasonable to repair the structure, to
demolish and remove such structure; or if such structure is capable of being
made safe by repairs, to repair and make safe and sanitary or to demolish and
remove at the owner’s option; or where there has been a cessation of normal
construction of any structure for a period of more than two (2) years, the
Building Official shall order the owner to demolish and remove such structure,
or board up until future repair. Boarding the building up for future repair
shall not extend beyond one year, unless approved by the Building Official.
      110.2 Notices And Orders: Shall read as follows:
         All notices and orders shall comply with Section 107 of the
International Property Maintenance Code.
      110.3 Failure To Comply: Shall read as follows:
         If the owner of a premises fails to comply with a demolition order
within the time prescribed, the Building Official shall cause the structure to
be demolished and removed, either through an available public agency or by
contract or arrangement with private persons, and the cost of such demolition
and removal shall be charged against the real estate upon which the structure
is located and shall be a Hen upon such real estate.
      Section 111 Means of Appeal: Shall he deleted in its entirety and
replaced as follows:
         That any person, firm or corporation shall have the right to appeal a
decision of the Building Official to the Village Planning and Zoning
Commission. Means of appeal shall follow requirements set forth in Section
14.06, Appeals of Administration Decisions, of the Village Zoning Code.
      Section 202, General Definitions, is amended by adding the following
definition In alphabetical order as it would appear therein:
         Private Street. A private vehicular access way shared by and serving
two or more lots or Dwelling Units, which is not dedicated to the public and is
not publicly maintained.
      302.4 Weeds: Insert eight (8) inches.
      Section 302, Exterior Property Areas, is amended by adding the following
subsection:
         302.10 Private Street
            All Private Streets shall be maintained in a clean, safe and
sanitary condition and shall be kept in a proper state of repair and maintained
free from hazardous conditions. Maintenance shall include, but not be limited
to, removal of snow upon an accumulation of two or more inches, sealing and
filling cracks or holes in the street as reasonably necessary, and the removal
of vegetative overhang which might obstruct emergency vehicle access or
constitute a safety hazard.
      304.14 Insect Screens: Insert May 1st to October 31st.
      602.3 Heat Supply: Insert October 31st to May 1st.
      602.4 Occupiable Work Space: Insert May 1st to October 31st.
      Add new Section 704.5 as follows:
         704.5 Carbon Monoxide Detectors: Carbon Monoxide Detectors are
required per Illinois
State Law, Public Act 94-0741.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 1-23-2018)
§ 154.41 INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE - 2015
   (A)   Code adopted. There is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set
forth herein, that certain Building Code known as the International Existing
Building Code - 2015 edition, including Appendix B, supplementary Accessibility
Requirements for Existing Buildings and Facilities; and as thereafter amended
and on file with the Village Clerk, as the Existing Building Code for the
Village.
   (B)   Copies on file. At least one copy of the International Existing
Building Code - 2015 has been on file in the Village Hall for more than 30 days
prior to the adoption hereof and is now on file. The Building Officer shall
keep on file in his or her office at least one copy of the International
Existing Building Code - 2015, which shall be available for inspection.
   (C)   Special provisions. The following words, provisions, and paragraphs
are to be added to the following designated sections of the International
Existing Building Code - 2015. These provisions supersede the requirements of
the indicated provisions of such code.
      101.1 Title: Insert Village of Diamond.
      103 Department of Building Safety: Shall be deleted in its entirety and
replace as follows:
         The Building Official shall be charged with the enforcement of the
Existing Building Code and shall be known as the code official,
      105.3 Application For Permit: Add the following:
         8.   Where applicable, describe the land in which the proposed work is
to be done by legal description, street address, and signed sealed copy of plat
of survey prepared by an Illinois Licensed Professional Land Surveyor.
      106.2.2 Information On Construction Documents: Shall be added as follows:
         Construction documents shall be dimensioned and drawn on 36" x 24" or
larger paper and have an Illinois Licensed Professional Architect stamp on all
pages. Deviations from the size requirements may be approved by the Building
Official.
      106.3.3 Phased Approval: Shall be deleted in its entirety.
      108.6 Refunds: Shall be deleted in its entirety.
      Section 112 Board of Appeals: Shall be deleted in its entirety and
replace as follows:
         That any person, firm or corporation shall have the right to appeal a
decision of the Building Official to the Village Planning and Zoning
Commission. Means of appeal shall follow requirements set forth in Section
14.06, Appeals of Administration Decisions, of the Village Zoning Code.
      113.1 Unlawful Acts: Shall read as follows:
         It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to alter,
extend, add, repair, move, remove, demolish or change the occupancy of any
building or equipment regulated by the International Existing Building Code or
amendments to the International Existing Building Code as herein provided, or
cause same to be done, in conflict with or in violation of any of the
provisions of the International Existing Building Code or amendments to the
International Existing Building Code as herein provided.
      113.2 Notice Of Violation: Shall read as follows:
         The Building Official is authorized to serve a notice of violation or
order on the person responsible for the alteration, extension, repair,
addition, moving, removal, demolition or change in the occupancy of a building
in violation of the provisions of the International Existing Building Code or
amendments to the International Existing Building Code as herein provided, or
In violation of a permit or certificate issued under the provisions of the
International Existing Building Code. Such order shall direct the
discontinuance of the illegal action or condition and the abatement of the
violation. Administrative notices are attempts to secure voluntary compliance
and are not the start of prosecution for jurisdictional purposes.
      113.3 Prosecution of Violation: Shall read as follows:
         If the notice of violation is not complied with promptly, the Building
Official is authorized to request the legal counsel of the Village to institute
the appropriate proceeding at law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate
such violation, or to require the removal or termination of the unlawful
occupancy of the building or structure in violation of the provisions of the
International Existing Building Code or amendments to the International
Existing Building Code as herein provided or of the order or direction made
pursuant thereto.
      113.4 Violation Penalties: Shall read as follows:
         Any person who violates a provision of the International Existing
Building Code or amendments to the International Existing Building Code as
herein provided or fails to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who
alters or repairs a building or structure In violation of the approved
construction documents or directive of the Building Official, or of a permit or
certificate issued under the provision of the International Existing Building
Code, or amendments to the International Existing Building Code as herein
provided shall be subject to penalties as prescribed by law and as provided in
Section
10.99 of the Village Code. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense.
      114.3 Unlawful Continuance: Shall read as follows:
         Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a
stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to
remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to penalties as
prescribed by law and as provided in Section
10.99 of the Village Code.
      116.6 Hearing: Shall read as follows:
         Any person ordered to take emergency measures shall comply with such
order forthwith. Any affected person shall thereafter, upon petition directed
to the Village Planning and Zoning Commission as set forth in Section 112 of
the International Existing Building Code be afforded a hearing as described in
Section 112 of the International Existing Building Code.
      1401.2 Applicability: Insert as follows:
         January 1, 1975
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 1-23-2018)
§ 154.42 NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE - 2014.
   (A)   Code adopted. There is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set
forth herein, that certain Building Code known as the NFPA 70: National
Electric Code - 2014 edition, and as thereafter amended and on file with the
Village Clerk, as the Electric Code for the Village.
   (B)   Copies on file. At least one copy of the National Electric Code-2014
has been on file in the Village Hall for more than 30 days prior to the
adoption hereof and is now on file. The Building Official shall keep on file in
his/her office at least one copy of the National Electric Code - 2014, which
shall be available for inspection.
   (C)   Special provisions. The following words, provisions, and paragraph are
to be added to the following designated sections of the National Electric Code-
2014. These provisions supersede the requirements of the indicated provisions
of such code.
      Article 90.6 Formal Interpretations: Add after last sentence:
         That any person, firm or corporation shall have the right to appeal a
decision of the Building Official to the Village Planning and Zoning
Commission. Means of appeal shall follow requirements set forth in Section
14.06, Appeals of Administration Decisions, of the Village Zoning Code.
      Article 100 Definitions-General-Authority Having Jurisdiction: Add after
the last sentence:
         The Building Official shall be charged with the enforcement of the
Electric Code as amended herein and shall be known as the code official
authority having jurisdiction.
      Article 210.4 (B): Add after last sentence: All switches for fire alarms,
burglar alarms, exit signs, and emergency lighting shall be equipped with
mechanical lockouts to prevent an accidental turnoff of the circuits.
      Article 210.8(A) Add after (2): Exception to (2): Receptacles used for
garage door openers shall be permitted to be on a single dedicated non-GFCI
protected receptacle.
      Article 220.1: Add after last sentence: If required by the authority
having jurisdiction, a diagram showing service and feeder wire sizes, type of
conductors, calculated loads, area in square feet being supplied, and demand
factors shall be submitted. Required panel schedules shall show connected
loads, total connected loads per phase.
      Article 230.70-(A)(1) - Readily Accessible Location: Add after the last
sentence:
         For all new residential, commercial and industrial construction after
April 30, 2016, the primary service disconnect shall be located outside of the
building or structure, at the meter bank and tamper tagged. A secondary service
disconnect (optional) shall be located inside at the nearest point of entrance
of the service conductors.
      Article 310.2(B) Conductor Material: Delete and replace as follows:
         Conductors in this article shall be of copper unless otherwise
specified.
      Article 320 Armored Cable: Type AC. Delete entire article. Use not
permitted.
      Article 324 Flat Conductor Cable: Type FCC. Delete entire article. Use
not permitted.
      Article 330 Metal-Clad Cable: Type MC. Delete entire article. Use not
permitted.
      Article 340 Underground Feeder and Branch-Circuit Cable: Type UF. Delete
entire article. Use not permitted.
      Article 394 Concealed Knob-and-Tub Wiring. Delete entire article. Use not
permitted. 
      Article 398 Open Wiring on Insulators. Delete entire article. Use not
permitted.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 1-23-2018)
§ 154.43 ILLINOIS STATE ACCESSIBILITY CODE, CURRENT EDITION.
   (A)   Code adopted. There is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set
forth herein, that certain Building Code known as the Illinois State
Accessibility Code, current edition (as published by the Illinois Capital
Development Board), and as thereafter amended and on file with the Village
Clerk, as the Accessibility Code for the Village.
   (B)   Copies on file. At least one copy of the Illinois State Accessibility
Code, current edition (as published by the Illinois Capital Development Board)
has been on file in the Village Hall for more than 30 days prior to the
adoption hereof and is now on file. The Building Official shall keep on file in
his or her office at least one copy of the Illinois State Accessibility Code,
current edition (as published by the Illinois Capital Development Board), which
shall be available for inspection.
   (C)   Special provisions. The following words, provisions, and paragraphs
are to be added to the following designated sections of the Illinois State
Accessibility Code, current edition (as published by the Illinois Capital
Development Board). These provisions supersede the requirements of the
indicated provisions of such code.
      Section 400.210 Code Terms:
         “Administrative Authority” as used in this code means the Building
Official of the Village of Diamond.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 1-23-2018)
§ 154.44 ILLINOIS PLUMBING CODE, CURRENT EDITION.
   (A)   Code adopted. There is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set
forth herein, that certain Building Code known as the Illinois Plumbing Code,
current edition (as published by the Illinois Department of Public Health) and
as thereafter amended and on file with the Village Clerk, as the existing
Plumbing Code for the Village.
      (1)   Village of Diamond Amendments to the Illinois State Plumbing code
are as follows:
         Section 890 Appendix A, Materials for Water Service Pipe, Delete:
Number 4, (CPVC Pipe)
   (B)   Copies on file. At least one copy of the Illinois Plumbing Code,
current edition (as published by the Illinois Department of Public Health) has
been on file in the Village Hall for more than 30 days prior to the adoption
hereof and is now on file. The Building Official shall keep on file in his or
her office at least one copy of the Illinois Plumbing Code, current edition (as
published by the Illinois Department of Public Health), which shall be
available for inspection.
   (C)   Special provisions. The following words, provisions, and paragraphs
are to be added to the following designated sections of the Illinois Plumbing
Code, current edition (as published by the Illinois Department of Public
Health). These provisions supersede the requirements of the indicated
provisions of such code.
      “Administrative Authority” as used in this section means the Building
Official of the Village of Diamond.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 1-23-2018)
§ 154.45 INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE - 2015.
   (A)   Code adopted. There is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set
forth herein, that certain Building Code known as the International Fire Code -
2015, and as thereafter amended and on file with the Village Clerk as the Fire
Code for the Village.
   (B)   Copies on file. At least one copy of the International Fire Code -
2006 has been on file in the Village Hall for more than 30 days prior to the
adoption hereof and Is now on file. The Building Official shall keep on file in
his or her office at least one copy of the International Fire Code - 2015,
which shall be available for inspection.
   (C)   Special provisions. The following words, provisions, and paragraphs
are to be added to the following designated sections of the International Fire
Code - 2015. These provisions supersede the requirements of the indicated
provisions of such code.
      101.1 Title: Insert Village of Diamond.
      103 Department of Fire Prevention. Delete in its entirety and insert as
follows:
         The Building Official shall be charged with the enforcement of the
Fire Code as amended herein, and shall be known as the fire code official where
referenced in this code.
   Building Code   178CC
      108 Board of Appeals: Shall be deleted in its entirety and replace as
follows:
         That any person, fire or corporation shall have the right to appeal a
decision of the Building Official to the Village Planning and Zoning
Commission. Means of appeal shall follow requirements set forth in Section
14.06, Appeals of Administration Decisions, of the Village Zoning Code.
      109.1 Unlawful Acts: Shall read as follows:
         It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, alter, repair, remove, demolish or utilize a building, occupancy,
premises or system regulated by the Fire Code or amendments to the Fire Code as
herein provided, or cause same to be done, in conflict with or in violation of
any of the provisions of the Fire Code or amendments to the Fire Code as herein
provided-
      109.3 Violation Penalties: Shall read as follows:
         Persons who shall violate a provision of the Fire Code or amendments
to the Fire Code as herein provided or shall fail to comply with any of the
requirements thereof or who shall erect, Install, alter, repair or do work in
violation of the approved construction documents or directive of the fire code
official, or of a permit or certificate used under provisions of this code,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as provided under section
10.99 of the Village Code. Each day that a violation continues after due notice
has been served shall be deemed a separate offense,.
      109.4 Violation Penalties: Insert as follows:
         Reference
10.99 of the Village Code.
      111.4 Failure To Comply: Shall read as follows:
         Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a
stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to
remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable to a fine of not more
than as provided in section
10.99 of the Village Code.
      5704.2.9.6.1 Locations where above-ground tanks are prohibited: Insert as
follows:
         Within residential zoned districts in the Village of Diamond where
such tanks have a capacity greater than (20) twenty pounds.
      5806.2 Limitations: Insert as follows:
         Within residential zoned districts in the Village of Diamond such
tanks shall not have a capacity greater than (20) twenty pounds.
      6104.2 Maximum capacity within established limits: Insert as follows:
         Within residential zoned district in the Village of Diamond such tanks
shall not have a capacity greater than (20) twenty pounds.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 1-23-2018)
§ 154.46 INTERNATIONAL SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE - 2015.
   (A)   Code adopted. There is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set
forth herein, that certain Building Code known as the International Swimming
Pool and Spa Code - 2015 edition, and as thereafter amended and on file with
the Village Clerk, as the Swimming Pool and Spa Code for the Village.
   (B)   Copies on file. At least one copy of the International Swimming Pool
and Spa Code - 2015 has been on file in the Village Hall for more than 30 days
prior to the adoption hereof and is now on file. The Building Official shall
keep on file in his or her office at least one copy of the International
Swimming Pool and Spa Code - 2015, which shall be available for inspection.
   (C)   Special provisions. The following words, provisions, and paragraphs
are to be added to the following designated sections of the International
Swimming Pool and Spa Code - 2015. These provisions supersede the requirements
of the indicated provisions of such code.
      101.1 Title: Insert Village of Diamond.
      103.1 Creation of enforcement agency: Shall be deleted in its entirety
and replaced as follows:
         The Building Official shall be charged with the enforcement of the
Swimming Pool and Spa Code, as amended herein, and shall be known as the code
official.
      105.6.1 Work Commencing Before Permit Issuance: Shall be deleted in its
entirety and replaced as follows:
         Persons who commence or complete work without obtaining the required
permit, in addition to any other fines or penalties, shall be required to pay a
penalty prior to issuance of the permit. The penalty for commencing or
completing work without obtaining the required permit shall be the cost of the
standard permit fee, with a maximum penalty as set forth in Section 10.99 of
the Village Code.
      105.6.2 Fee Schedule: Shall be deleted in its entirety.
      105.6.3 Fee Refunds: Shall be deleted in its entirety.
      107.1 Unlawful Acts: Shall read as follows:
         It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, alter, repair, remove, demolish or utilize any system, or cause same
to be done, in conflict with or In violation of any of the provisions of the
International Swimming Pool and Spa Code or amendments to the International
Swimming Pool and Spa Code as herein provided.
      107.2 Notice Of Violation: Shall read as follows:
         The Building Official shall serve a notice of violation or order to
the person responsible for the erection, installation, alteration, extension,
repair, removal or demolition of work in violation of the provisions of the
International Swimming Pool and Spa Code or amendments to the International
Swimming Pool and Spa Code as herein provided, or in violation of a detail
statement or the approved construction documents thereunder, or in violation of
a permit or certificate issued under the provisions of the International
Swimming Pool and Spa Code or amendments to the International Swimming Pool and
Spa Code as herein provided. Such order shall direct the discontinuance of the
illegal action or condition and the abatement of the violation. Administrative
notices are attempts to secure voluntary compliance and are not the start of
prosecution for jurisdictional purposes.
      107.3 Prosecution Of Violation: Shall read as follows:
         If the notice of violation is not complied with promptly, the Building
Official may request the legal counsel of the Village to institute the
appropriate legal proceedings at law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate
such violation, or to require the removal or termination of the unlawful pool
or spa in violation of the provisions of the International Swimming Pool and
Spa Code or amendments to the International Swimming Pool and Spa Code as
herein provided or of the order or direction made pursuant thereto.
      107.4 Violation Penalties: Shall read as follows:
         Persons who shall violate a provision of the International Swimming
Pool and Spa Code or amendments to the International Swimming Pool and Spa Code
as herein provided or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof
or who shall erect, install, alter or repair a pool or spa in violation of the
approved construction documents or directive of the Building Official, or of a
permit or certificate issued under the provisions of the International Swimming
Pool and Spa Code or amendments to the International Swimming Pool and Spa Code
as herein provided, shall be subject to penalties as prescribed by law and as
provided in Section 10.99 of the Village Code. Each day that a violation
continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
      107.5 Stop Work Orders: Shall read as follows:
         Upon notice from the Building Official, that work is being done
contrary to the provisions of the International Swimming Pool and Spa Code or
amendments to the International Swimming Pool and Spa Code as herein provided
or in a dangerous or unsafe manner, such work shall Immediately cease. Such
notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, or
to the owner’s authorized agent, or to the person doing the work. The notice
shall state the conditions under which work Is authorized to resume. Where an
emergency exists, the Building Official shall not be required to give a written
notice prior to stopping the work. Any person who shall continue any work on
the system after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as
that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition,
shall be punished as prescribed by law and as provided in Section 10.99 of the
Village Code.
      107.6 Abatement Of Violation: Shall read as follows:
         The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not preclude
the Building Official from instituting appropriate action to prevent unlawful
construction, restrain, correct or abate a violation, or to prevent illegal use
of a pool or spa, or stop an illegal act, conduct, business or utilization of
the plumbing on or about any premises.
      107.7.1 Authority To Condemn a System: Shall read as follows:
         Whenever the Building Official determines that any system, or portion
thereof, regulated by the International Swimming Pool and Spa Code or
amendments to the International Swimming Pool and Spa Code as herein provided
has become hazardous to life, health or property, or has become insanitary, the
Building Official shall order in writing that such system either be removed or
restored to a safe or sanitary condition, A time limit for compliance with such
order shall be specified in the written notice. A person shall not use or
maintain a defective system after receiving such notice. When such system is to
be disconnected, written notice as prescribed in Section 107.2 of the
International Swimming Pool and Spa Code as amended shall be given. In cases of
immediate danger to life or property, such disconnection shall be made
immediately without such notice.
      Section 108 Means of Appeal: Shall be deleted in its entirety and
replaced as follows:
         That any person, firm or corporation shall have the right to appeal a
decision of the Building Official to the Village Planning and Zoning
Commission. Means of appeal shall follow requirements set forth in Section
14.06, Appeals of Administration Decisions, of the Village Zoning Code.
      305.1 General: Delete the following:
         Exceptions:
            2.   Swimming pools with a powered safety cover that complies with
ASTM F 1346.
      Plumbing Code.
         Delete all references to the “International Plumbing Code” and replace
them with the “Illinois State Plumbing Code”, current edition (as published by
the Illinois Department of Public Health) and as thereafter amended in Chapter
§
154.012 of the Building Code.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 1-23-2018)
CHAPTER 155: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
155.01   Purpose
   
155.02   Definitions
   
155.03   Base flood elevation
   
155.04   Duties of the Mayor
   
155.05   Development permit
   
155.06   Preventing increased flood heights and resulting damages
   
155.07   Protecting buildings
   
155.08   Subdivision requirements
   
155.09   Public health and other standards
   
155.10   Flood-carrying capacity and notification
   
155.11   Variances
   
155.12   Disclaimer of liability
   
155.13   Abrogation and greater restrictions
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this
village by the Illinois Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-2-1, 11-12-12,
11-30-2, 11-30-8 and 11-31-2), in order to accomplish the following purposes:
   (A)   Prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage hazards
to others;
   (B)   Protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   (C)   Promote and protect the public health, safety and general welfare of
the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   Lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to public
facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   Maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (G)   Preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses and
floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve water
quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat, provide
recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance community
and economic development.
(Ord. 2012-15, passed 5-22-2012)
§ 155.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are adopted:
   BASE FLOOD.  The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-YEAR FLOOD. The base
flood elevation at any location is as defined in §
155.03 of this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure that is principally above ground,
including manufactured homes, prefabricated buildings and gas or liquid storage
tanks. The term also includes recreational vehicles and travel trailers
installed on a site for more than 180 days per year.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any facility that is critical to the health and welfare
of the population and that, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital
services, cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or put
special populations at risk. Examples of critical facilities where flood
protection should be required include: emergency services facilities (such as
fire and police stations), schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care
facilities, major roads and bridges, critical utility sites (e.g., telephone
switching stations or electrical transformers), and hazardous material storage
facilities (chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to real estate, including but not
necessarily limited to:
      (1)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building;
      (2)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
      (3)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for
a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than 180
days per year;
      (4)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges, culverts
or similar projects;
      (5)   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences;
      (6)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving or
other alterations of the ground surface;
      (7)   Storage of materials, including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks, and channel modifications or any other activity that might
change the direction, height or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      DEVELOPMENT does not include routine maintenance of existing buildings
and facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing and similar practices
that do not involve filing, grading or construction of levees.
      EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park
or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots
on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed, or buildings to be
constructed (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the
construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of
concrete pads), is completed before the effective date of the floodplain
management regulations adopted by a community.
      EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
      FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
      FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
      FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. A map prepared by FEMA that depicts the
floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a community. This map
includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict floodways and show base
flood elevations.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOODPLAIN or SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). These two terms are
synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction of the village, the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village, or that may be annexed into the
village, that are subject to inundation by the base flood. The floodplains of
the village are generally identified as such on panel 145 of the of the
countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of Grundy County prepared by FEMA and dated
August 8, 2012, and on the Flood Insurance Rate Map of Will County prepared by
FEMA and dated February 15, 2019. FLOODPLAIN also includes those areas of known
flooding as identified by the community. The floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated Grundy and Will Counties that are within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the village, or that may be annexed into the village, are
generally identified as such on the Flood Insurance Rate maps prepared by FEMA
for Grundy County dated August 2, 2012, and Will County dated February 15,
2019.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures that reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by FEMA that is used to certify
that a building has been designed and constructed to be structurally dry
floodproofed to the flood protection elevation.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The elevation of the base flood plus 1
foot of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
   FLOODWAY.  That portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The floodway shall be according to the best data available from
federal, state or other sources.
   FREEBOARD. An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily
determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by
the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that
has been certified by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
   IDNR/OWR. The Illinois Department of Natural Resources, Office of Water
Resources.
   IDNR/OWR JURISDICTIONAL STREAM. The Illinois Department of Natural
Resources, Office of Water Resources, has jurisdiction over any stream serving
a tributary area of 640 acres or more in an urban area, or in the floodway of
any stream serving a tributary area of 6,400 acres or more in a rural area.
Construction on these streams requires a permit from the Department (Ill.
Admin. Code tit. 17, pt. 3700.30). The Department may grant approval for
specific types of activities by issuance of a statewide permit that meets the
standards defined in §
155.06 of this chapter.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The LOWEST FLOOR of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's LOWEST FLOOR. Provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of §
155.07 of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in 1 or more sections, built
on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to required utilities.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into 2 or more lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community, and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed, or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads), is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
   NFIP. National Flood Insurance Program.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less in size; and
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck, and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on 2
separate occasions during a 10-year period for which the cost of repairs at the
time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). See FLOODPLAIN.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or other
improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation or placement
of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a substantial improvement, ACTUAL
START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. See BUILDING.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cumulative percentage of damage subsequent to the adoption of this chapter
equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred, regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and
materials must be included in this determination. The term includes “repetitive
loss” buildings (see definition).
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
improvement of a structure taking place subsequent to the adoption of this
chapter in which the cumulative percentage of improvements:
      (1)   Equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before
the improvement or repair is started; or
      (2)   Increases the floor area by more than 20%.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first alteration of
any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences,
whether or not that alteration affects  the external dimensions of the
structure. This term includes structures that have incurred repetitive loss or
substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done.
   The term does not include:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications that are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the required federal, state and/or local permits
and elevation certification is presumed to be in violation until such time as
the documentation is provided.
(Ord. 2012-15, passed 5-22-2012; Am. Ord. 2019-02, passed 1-22-2019)
§ 155.03 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   This chapter’s protection standard is the base flood. The best available
base flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best
available data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study needed
to replace the existing data with better data and submit it to FEMA and IDNR/
OWR for approval prior to any development of the site.
   (A)   The base flood elevation for each of the floodplains delineated as an
A Zone on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Maps of Grundy and Will Counties
shall be according to the best data available from federal, state or sources.
Should no other data exist, an engineering study must be financed by the
applicant to determine base flood elevations.
   (B)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated Grundy and Will Counties that are within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the village, or that may be annexed into the village, shall be
as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of
Grundy County prepared by FEMA and dated August 2, 2012, and in the Flood
Insurance Study of Will County prepared by FEMA and dated February 15, 2019.
   (C)   The base flood or 100 years frequency flood elevation for the
floodplain of the village that are within the Claypool Drainage and Levee
District shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the Claypool
and Maine Township Regional Stormwater Drainage Study prepared by Grundy County
and dated April 4, 2014.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 1-22-2019)
§ 155.04 DUTIES OF THE MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall be responsible for the general administration of this
chapter and ensure that all development activities within the floodplains under
the jurisdiction of the village meet the requirements of this chapter.
Specifically, the Mayor shall:
   (A)   Process development permits in accordance with §
155.05;
   (B)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of §
155.06;
   (C)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to §
155.07 are met and maintain a record of the as-built elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) or floodproofing certificate;
   (D)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements of
§
155.08;
   (E)   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of §
155.09;
   (F)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of §
155.11 are met and maintain documentation of any variances granted;
   (G)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty actions
outlined in §
155.99 as necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
   (H)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state and federal permits;
   (I)   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse;
   (J)   Upon request, provide information and assistance to citizens about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
   (K)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
   (L)   Maintain for public inspection, base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter;
   (M)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter and
make substantial damage determinations for structures within the floodplain;
and
   (N)   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps, including notifying IDNR/OWR
and/or submitting information to FEMA within 6 months whenever a modification
of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in a change to
the floodplain map.
(Ord. 2012-15, passed 5-22-2012)
§ 155.05 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by law shall
commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the Building Inspector. The Building Inspector shall
not issue a development permit if the proposed development does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   (A)   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale, showing property line
dimensions;
      (2)   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      (3)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      (4)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §
155.07 of this chapter; and
      (5)   The cost of the project or improvements as estimated by a licensed
engineer or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this
requirement.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the Building
Inspector shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood elevation.
Any development located on land that is shown by survey elevation to be below
the current base flood elevation is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
In addition, any development located on land shown to be below the base flood
elevation and hydraulically connected to a flood source, but not identified as
floodplain on the current Flood Insurance Rate Map, is subject to the
provisions of this chapter. Any development located on land that can be shown
by survey data to be higher than the current base flood elevation and which has
not been filled after the date of the site's first Flood Insurance Rate Map is
not in the floodplain and is therefore not subject to the provisions of this
chapter.
      (1)   The Building Inspector shall maintain documentation of the existing
ground elevation at the development site, and certification that this ground
elevation existed prior to the date of the site's first Flood Insurance Rate
Map identification.
      (2)   The Building Inspector shall be responsible for obtaining from the
applicant copies of all other federal, state and local permits, approvals or
permit-not-required letters that may be required for this type of activity. The
Building Inspector shall not issue a permit unless all other federal, state and
local permits have been obtained.
(Ord. 2012-15, passed 5-22-2012)
§ 155.06 PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES.
   Within any floodway identified on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map,
and within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply:
   (A)   Except as provided in §
155.06(B) of this chapter, no development shall be allowed that, acting in
combination with existing and anticipated development, will cause any increase
in flood heights or velocities or threat to public health and safety. The
following specific development activities shall be considered as meeting this
requirement:
      (1)   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
conditions of the IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 2;
      (2)   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 3;
      (3)   Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 4;
      (4)   Minor boat docks meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide
Permit No. 5;
      (5)   Minor, non-obstructive activities, such as underground utility
lines, light poles, sign posts, driveways, athletic fields, patios, playground
equipment, minor storage buildings not exceeding 70 square feet, and raising
buildings on the same footprint, that does not involve fill and any other
activity meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 6;
      (6)   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 7;
      (7)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 8;
      (8)   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 9;
      (9)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 10;
      (10)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 11;
      (11)   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 12:
      (12)   Temporary construction activities meeting the conditions of IDNR/
OWR Statewide Permit No. 13:
      (13)   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in division (A) may be
permitted only if:
      (1)   Permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided when an IDNR/OWR permit is not required); or
      (2)   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation.
(Ord. 2012-15, passed 5-22-2012)
§ 155.07 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In addition to the state permit and damage prevention requirements of
§
155.06 of this chapter, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be
protected from flood damage below the flood protection elevation. This building
protection requirement applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than $1,000 or exceeding 70
square feet.
      (2)   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than 20% or equal or
exceed the market value by 50%. Alteration shall be figured cumulatively
subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If substantially improved, the
existing structure and the addition must meet the flood protection standards of
this section.
      (3)   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If
substantially damaged, the entire structure must meet the flood protection
standards of this section within 24 months of the date the damage occurred.
      (4)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. (The building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage.)
      (5)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days per year.
      (6)   Repetitive loss to an existing building as defined in §
155.02.
   (B)   Residential or non-residential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by 1 of the following methods:
      (1)   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation;
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than 6 inches
before compaction, and should extend at least 10 feet beyond the foundation
before sloping below the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or another structural measure;
         (d)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil, and shall not be
incorporated debris or refuse material; and
         (e)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties, and when necessary, stormwater management
techniques such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      (2)   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following:
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawlspace or other foundation that is permanently open to flood waters;
         (b)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at or
above the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of flood waters. Designs must either be certified by a licensed
professional engineer, or have a minimum of 1 permanent opening on each wall no
more than 1 foot above grade with a minimum of 2 openings. The openings shall
provide a total net area of not less than 1 square inch for every 1 square foot
of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base flood elevation; and
         (d)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice and floating debris.
            1.   All structural components below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage.
            2.   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation, provided they are waterproofed.
            3.   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space; or
            4.   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply
with these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      (3)   The building may be constructed with a crawlspace located below the
flood protection elevation, provided that the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
         (b)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of flood waters. A minimum of 1 opening on each wall, having a
total net area of not less than 1 square inch per 1 square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than 1 foot above grade;
         (c)   The interior grade of the crawlspace below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than 2 feet below the lowest adjacent exterior
grade;
         (d)   The interior height of the crawlspace, measured from the
interior grade of the crawl to the top of the foundations wall, must not exceed
4 feet at any point;
         (e)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove flood
waters from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period of
time after a flood event;
         (f)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; and
         (g)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
   (C)   Non-residential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed (in
lieu of elevation), provided a licensed professional engineer or architect
certifies that:
      (1)   Below the flood protection elevation, the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood.
      (2)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice.
      (3)   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building
design and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity.
      (4)   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this division (C).
   (D)   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on
site shall be:
      (1)   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with §
155.07(B); and
      (2)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by
being tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the Illinois
Mobile Home Tie-Down Act issued pursuant to 77 Ill. Admin. Code § 870.
   (E)   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than180
days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of §
155.07(D), unless the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light
duty truck;
      (2)   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times;
      (3)   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches;
      (4)   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping, travel
or seasonal use, rather than as a permanent dwelling;
      (5)   The vehicle’s largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
400 square feet;
      (6)   The vehicle's wheels must remain on axles and inflated;
      (7)   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement of the floodplain;
      (8)   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick-disconnect;
      (9)   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle
or park model; and
      (10)   The vehicle must either:
         (a)   Be entirely supported by jacks; or
         (b)   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground, and be supported by block in a manner that will allow the block to
be easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
   (F)   Garages, sheds or other minor accessory structures constructed
ancillary to an existing residential use may be permitted, provided the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The garage or shed must be non-habitable;
      (2) The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles and
tools, and cannot be modified later into another use;
      (3)   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate state and/or federal permits;
      (4)   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and must be
accessory to an existing principal structure on the same lot;
      (5)   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage;
      (6)   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation;
      (7)   The garage or shed must have at least 1 permanent opening on each
wall not more than 1 foot above grade, with 1 square inch of opening for every
1 square foot of floor area;
      (8)   The garage or shed must be less than $15,000 in market value or
replacement cost, whichever is greater, or less than 576 square feet (24' x
24');
      (9)   The structure shall be anchored to resist floatation and
overturning;
      (10)   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, and the like) shall be stored above the flood protection
elevation; and
      (11)   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications.
(Ord. 2012-15, passed 5-22-2012)
§ 155.08 SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   The village shall take into account hazards, to the extent that they are
known, in all official actions related to land management use and development.
   (A)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protection standards
of §§
155.06 and
155.07 of this chapter. Any proposal for such development shall include the
following data:
      (1)   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain. Where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      (2)   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
      (3)   A signed statement by a licensed professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act (ILCS Ch. 765, Act 205, § 2).
   (B)   Streets, blocks lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible, floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
(Ord. 2012-15, passed 5-22-2012)
§ 155.09 PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS.
   (A)   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of §§
155.06 and
155.07 of this chapter, the following standards apply:
      (1)   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, other
hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation, unless such
materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and certified
by a professional engineer, or stored in a floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of §
155.07 of this chapter.
      (2)   Public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas and electric,
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      (3)   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems, and discharges from the systems into flood waters.
      (4)   New and replacement on-site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them, or
contamination from them, during flooding. Manholes or other above-ground
openings located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight.
      (5)   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
floodproofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation, or 3 feet above the
level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation, whichever is greater.
Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into flood waters. Access
routes elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be
provided to all critical facilities.
   (B)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
(Ord. 2012-15, passed 5-22-2012)
§ 155.10 FLOOD-CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   For all projects involving channel modification, fill or stream
maintenance (including levees), the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse
shall be maintained.
   (B)   In addition, the village shall notify adjacent communities in writing
30 days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or relocation of
the watercourse.
(Ord. 2012-15, passed 5-22-2012)
§ 155.11 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variance procedures. Whenever the standards of this chapter place
undue hardship on a specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to
the Planning and Zoning Commission for a variance. The Planning and Zoning
Commission shall review the applicant's request for a variance, and shall
submit its recommendation to the Village Board. The Village Board may attach
such conditions to the granting of a variance as it deems necessary to further
the intent of this chapter.
   (B)   Variance requirements. No variance shall be granted unless the
applicant demonstrates that all of the following conditions have been met:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain;
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety or
creation of a nuisance;
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities or other
public facilities;
      (6)   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
      (7)   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   (C)   Notification of variance consequences. The Planning and Zoning
Commission shall notify an applicant, in writing, that a variance from the
requirements of the building protections standards of §
155.07 that would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per
$100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks,
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   (D)   Historic structures. Variances to the building protection requirements
of §
155.07 of this chapter that are requested in connection with reconstruction,
repair or alteration of a historic site or historic structure, as defined in §
155.02, may be granted using criteria more permissive than the requirements of
§§
155.06 and
155.07 of this chapter, subject to the conditions that:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure; and
      (2)   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed from consideration as a certified historic structure.
   (E)   Agriculture.
      (1)   Any variance granted for an agricultural structure shall be decided
individually, based on a case-by-case analysis of the building's unique
circumstances. Variances granted shall meet the following conditions as well as
those criteria and conditions set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   In order to minimize flood damages during the 100-year flood and
the threat to public health and safety, the following conditions shall be
included for any variance issued for agricultural structures that are
constructed at grade and wet floodproofed.
         (a)   All agricultural structures considered for a variance from the
floodplain management regulations of this chapter shall demonstrate that the
varied structure is located in wide, expansive floodplain areas, and no other
alternate location outside of the special flood hazard area exists for the
agricultural structure. Residential structures or animal confinement
facilities, such as farm houses, cannot be considered agricultural structures.
         (b)   Use of the varied structures must be limited to agricultural
purposes in Zone A only as identified on the community's Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM).
         (c)   For any new or substantially damaged agricultural structures,
the exterior and interior building components and elements (i.e., foundation,
wall framing, exterior and interior finishes, flooring, and the like) below the
base flood elevation must be built with flood-resistant materials in accordance
with §
155.07 of this chapter.
         (d)   All agricultural structures must be adequately anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structures in accordance
with §
155.07 of this chapter. All of the buildings’ structural components must be
capable of resisting specific flood-related forces, including hydrostatic,
buoyancy, hydrodynamic and debris-impact forces.
         (e)   Any mechanical, electrical or other utility equipment must be
located above the base flood elevation or floodproofed so that they are
contained within a watertight, floodproofed enclosure capable of resisting
damage during flood conditions in accordance with §
155.07 of this chapter.
         (f)   The NFIP requires that enclosure or foundation walls subject to
the 100-year flood contain openings that will permit the automatic entry and
exit of flood waters in accordance with §
155.07(B) this chapter.
         (g)   All agricultural structures must comply with the floodplain
management floodway provisions of §
155.06 of this chapter. No variances may be issued for agricultural structures
within any designated floodway.
         (h)   Wet-floodproofing construction techniques must be reviewed and
approved by the floodplain administrator and a registered professional engineer
or architect prior to the issuance of any floodplain development permit for
construction.
(Ord. 2012-15, passed 5-22-2012)
§ 155.12 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the village, or any officer or employee thereof, for any flood damage that
results from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision
made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 2012-15, passed 5-22-2012)
§ 155.13 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the Village
Board to fulfill the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program,
including that of May 28, 1978. However, this chapter does not repeal the
original resolution or ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in the program.
Nor does this chapter repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements,
covenants or deed restrictions. Where this chapter and other ordinances,
easements, covenants or deed restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever
imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 2012-15, passed 5-22-2012)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or
failure to comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed
to be a violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the municipal
attorney may determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this
chapter exists. The municipal attorney shall notify the owner in writing of
such violation.
   (B)   If such owner fails after 10 days notice to correct the violation:
      (1)   The village shall make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter;
      (2)   Any person who violates this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not less than $50 or more than $750 for each offense;
      (3)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues; and
      (4)   The village shall record a notice of violation on the title of the
property.
   (C)   The municipal attorney shall inform the owner that any such violation
is considered a willful act to increase flood damages, and therefore, may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
      (1)   The municipal attorney is authorized to issue an order requiring
the suspension of the subject development. The stop-work order shall be in
writing, indicate the reason for its issuance, and shall order the action, if
necessary, to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop-work order. The
stop-work order constitutes a suspension of the permit.
      (2)   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or
revoked until a hearing is held by the Planning and Zoning Commission. Written
notice of such hearing shall be served on the permittee, and shall state:
         (a)   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or
revocation; and
         (b)   The time and place of the hearing.
      (3)   At such hearing, the permittee shall be given an opportunity to
present evidence on his or her behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the
Planning and Zoning Commission shall determine whether the permit shall be
suspended or revoked.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall prevent the village from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2012-15, passed 5-22-2012)
CHAPTER 156: STREAM AND WETLAND PROTECTION
Section
   
156.01   Adoption
§ 156.01 ADOPTION.
   (A)   The Model Stream and Wetland Protection Ordinance as published by the
Northeastern Illinois Planning Commission is hereby enacted by the Village of
Diamond, Illinois, with modifications as stated herein. These provisions are
hereby adopted by reference and made a part hereof as though the same were
fully set forth herein verbatim. The ordinance shall be interpreted in
accordance with those portions of the ordinance marked as “Commentary.”
   (B)   The Model Stream and Wetland Protection shall be modified as follows.
      (1)   Section 1.00 shall be deleted and replaced with the following text:
“The Lowland Conservancy Overlay District is adopted by the Village of Diamond,
IL under the authority of the Illinois Revised Statutes, Chapter 24, Paragraphs
11-13-1 et. seq.”
      (2)   Wherever the term “local government name” shall appear in the text
of the model ordinance, the same shall be replace with “the Village of Diamond,
IL.”
      (3)   Wherever the term “permit issuing agency” shall appear in the text
of the model ordinance, the same shall be replace with “the Village of Diamond,
IL.”
      (4)   The permit application fee prescribed by section 5.01 shall be
$200, and shall be in addition to any other fee prescribed by other ordinances
of the Village of Diamond, Illinois.
      (5)   The fine prescribed by Section 16.02 shall be not more than $500
for each offense.
      (6)   The effective date prescribed by Section 17.00 shall be the
effective date stated herein.
   (C)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and approval as provided by law and shall be published in pamphlet
form.
(Ord. 2004-19, passed 10-12-2004)
CHAPTER 157: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 158: CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Section
General Provisions
   
158.01   Purpose; scope
   
158.02   Definitions
   
158.03   Annual registration required
Permits
   
158.10   Permit required; application and fees
   
158.11   Action on permit applications
   
158.12   Effect of permit
   
158.13   Revised permit drawings
   
158.14   Insurance
   
158.15   Indemnification
   
158.16   Security
   
158.17   Permit suspension and revocation
   
158.18   Change of ownership or owner’s identity or legal status
Construction Requirements
   
158.30   General construction standards
   
158.31   Traffic control
   
158.32   Location of facilities
   
158.33   Construction methods and materials
   
158.34   Vegetation control
   
158.35   Removal, relocation or modification of utility facilities
   
158.36   Clean-up; restoration
   
158.37   Maintenance; emergency maintenance
   
158.38   Variances
 
   
158.98   Enforcement
   
158.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 158.01 PURPOSE; SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the village’s
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the village
rights-of-way and the village as a whole.
   (B)   Intent. In enacting this chapter, the village intends to exercise its
authority over the rights-of-way in the village and, in particular, the use of
the public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards to
address issues presented by utility facilities, including without limitation:
      (1)   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
      (2)   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      (3)   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
village’s utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights-of-way or
public property;
      (4)   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
      (5)   Protect against increased stormwater run-off due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      (6)   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
      (7)   Preserve open space, particularly the tree-lined parkways that
characterize the village’s residential neighborhoods;
      (8)   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights-of-way; and
      (9)   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
   (C)   Facilities subject to this chapter. This chapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-
of-way within the jurisdiction of the village. A facility lawfully established
prior to the effective date of this chapter may continue to be maintained,
repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and located,
except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise, license or
similar agreement.
   (D)   Franchises, licenses, or similar agreements. The village, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the village
rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the village enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the village may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with
this chapter.
   (E)   Effect of franchises, licenses, or similar agreements.
      (1)   Utilities other than telecommunications providers. In the event
that a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise,
license or similar agreement with the village, such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      (2)   Telecommunications providers. In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the village and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   (F)   Conflicts with other provisions. This chapter supersedes all chapters
or parts of chapters adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict.
   (G)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the
maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
   (H)   Sound engineering judgment. The village shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this chapter when the village so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the
village to regulate its rights-of-way for the protection of the public health,
safety and welfare.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 4-22-08)
§ 158.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Any term
not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed to it in 92 Ill.
Adm. Code § 530.30, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
   AASHTO. American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
   ANSI. American National Standards Institute.
   APPLICANT. A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing and Materials.
   BACKFILL. The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a
trench or pit.
   BORE or BORING. To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the
insertion of a pipe or electrical conductor.
   CABLE OPERATOR. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(5).
   CABLE SERVICE. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6).
   CABLE SYSTEM. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(7).
   CARRIER PIPE. The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be
transported.
   CASING. A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
   CLEAR ZONE. The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a non-recoverable slope, and a clear run-out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO Roadside Design
Guide.
   COATING. Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
   CODE. The Municipal Code of the Village of Diamond.
   CONDUCTOR. Wire carrying electrical current.
   CONDUIT. A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
   CONSTRUCT or CONSTRUCTION. The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
   COVER. The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
   CROSSING FACILITY. A facility that crosses 1 or more right-of-way lines of a
right-of-way.
   DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY. For the purposes of this chapter, any work that
OBSTRUCTS THE RIGHT-OF-WAY or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right-of-way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
   EMERGENCY. Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety
of the public using or in the vicinity of the right-of-way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
   ENCASEMENT. Provision of a protective casing.
   ENGINEER. The Village Engineer or his or her designee.
   EQUIPMENT. Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used
to facilitate construction of facilities.
   EXCAVATION. The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying
bare by digging.
   EXTRA HEAVY PIPE. Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
   FACILITY. All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including, but
not limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiberoptic cable, antennas,
vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits,
grates, covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances thereto) located on, over,
above, along, upon, under, across, or within rights-of-way under this chapter.
FACILITY shall not include any facility owned or operated by the village.
   FREESTANDING FACILITY. A facility that is not a crossing facility or a
parallel facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent
to the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
Village Engineer to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to the life, health
or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance of the
environment, including, but not limited to explosives, radioactive materials,
petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology (biological)
agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be hazardous or
toxic under any federal or state law, statute or regulation.
   HIGHWAY. A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic
including rural or urban roads or streets. HIGHWAY includes all highway land
and improvements, including roadways, ditches and  embankments, bridges,
drainage structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
   HIGHWAY CODE. The Illinois Highway Code, ILCS Ch. 605, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et
seq., as amended from time to time.
   HOLDER. A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois Cable and
Video Competition Law, ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-401.
   ICC. Illinois Commerce Commission.
   IDOT. Illinois Department of Transportation.
   JACKING. Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means
with or without boring.
   JETTING. Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to
create a cavity ahead of the pipe.
   JOINT USE. The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by 2 or more
utilities.
   J.U.L.I.E. The Joint Utility Locating Information for Excavators utility
notification program.
   MAJOR INTERSECTION. The intersection of 2 or more major arterial highways.
   OCCUPANCY. The presence of facilities on, over or under right-of-way.
   PARALLEL FACILITY. A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to
the centerline of a right-of-way.
   PARKWAY. Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or sidewalk.
   PAVEMENT CUT. The removal of an area of pavement for access to facility or
for the construction of a facility.
   PERMITTEE. That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to §§
158.10 and
158.11.
   PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES. Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal-slurry.
   PRACTICABLE. That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than
that which is simply convenient.
   PRESSURE. The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
   PROMPT. That which is done within a period of time specified by the village,
If no time period is specified, the period shall be 30 days.
   PUBLIC ENTITY. A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
   RESTORATION. The repair of a right-of-way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY. Any street, alley, other land or waterway,
dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar
purposes, including utility easements, in which the village has the right and
authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other
than those of the village. RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY shall not include any
real or personal village property that is not specifically described in the
previous 2 sentences and shall not include village buildings, fixtures and
other structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in
the RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   ROADWAY. That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by 1 such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SECURITY FUND. That amount of security required pursuant to §
158.16.
   SHOULDER. A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
   SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT. A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary 2-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable 1-way or 2-way communications, and any other
transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means, between
or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. PRIVATE LINE means a dedicated non-traffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
1 or more specified locations to 1 or more other specified locations.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the information for purposes other than transmission. TELECOMMUNICATIONS
shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications
service provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such
provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end-
to-end communications. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include the provision of
cable services through a cable system as defined in the Cable Communications
Act of 1984 (47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.), as now or hereafter amended, or cable
or other programming services subject to an open video system fee payable to
the village through an open video system as defined in the Rules of the Federal
Communications Commission (47 C.F.R. §§ 76.1500 et seq.), as now or hereafter
amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER. Any person who installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the right-of-way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER. Every person engaged in making sales of
telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
   TRENCH. A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
   UTILITY. The individual or entity owning or operating any facility as
defined in this chapter.
   VENT. A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
   VIDEO SERVICE. That term as defined in section 21-201(v) of the Illinois
Cable and Video Competition Law of 2007 (ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-201(v).
   VILLAGE. The Village of South Elgin.
   WATER LINES. Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
   WET BORING. Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 4-22-08)
§ 158.03 ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Every utility that occupies right-of-way within the village shall register
on January 1 of each year with the Engineer, providing the utility’s name,
address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers, the name of 1 or
more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in connection with
emergencies involving the utility’s facilities in the right-of-way and a 24-
hour telephone number for each such person, and evidence of insurance as
required in §
158.14, in the form of a certificate of insurance.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 4-22-08)
Penalty, see § 158.99
PERMITS
§ 158.10 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION AND FEES.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall construct (as defined in this
chapter) any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within
any village right-of-way which (i) changes the location of the facility, (ii)
adds a new facility, (iii) disrupts the right-of-way (as defined in this
chapter), or (iv) materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by
the facility on, over, above, along, under across or within the right-of-way,
without first filing an application with the Village Engineer and obtaining a
permit from the village therefor, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
No permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of service
connections to customers’ premises where there will be no disruption of the
right-of-way.
   (B)   Permit application. All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the village and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the village may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contains proprietary or confidential information as “proprietary” or
“confidential” by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   (C)   Minimum general application requirements. The application shall be
made by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at
a minimum, the following:
      (1)   The utility’s name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      (2)   The applicant’s name and address, if different than the utility,
its telephone, telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
      (3)   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      (4)   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      (5)   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the village:
         (a)   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the Illinois Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         (b)   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the village and shall
promote protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with
ICC regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with
this section unless the village finds that additional information or assurances
are needed;
      (6)   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
      (7)   Evidence of insurance as required in §
158.14;
      (8)   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in §
158.16;
      (9)   Any request for a variance from 1 or more provisions of this
chapter (see §
158.38); and
      (10)   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
village.
   (D)   Supplemental application requirements for specific types of utilities.
In addition to the requirements of division (C) above, the permit application
shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific utility that
is the subject of the permit application:
      (1)   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any “Certificate of Public
Convenience and Necessity” or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      (2)   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
      (3)   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies,
have been satisfied;
      (4)   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control other local or state entities with
jurisdiction, have been satisfied; or
      (5)   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or
types of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the
design standard to be followed.
   (E)   Applicant’s duty to update information. Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the village within 30 days after the
change necessitating the amendment.
   (F)   Application fees. Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be accompanied by a fee in the amount of $250 plus any and all professional
fees and expenses incurred by the village in conjunction with administering the
permit and inspection process. No application fee is required to be paid by any
electricity utility that is paying the municipal electricity infrastructure
maintenance fee pursuant to the Electricity Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 4-22-08)
Penalty, see § 158.99
§ 158.11 ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Village review of permit applications. Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the Village
Engineer within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does not
conform to the requirements of applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and
regulations, the Village Engineer shall reject such application in writing,
stating the reasons therefor. If the Village Engineer is satisfied that the
proposed work conforms to the requirements of this chapter and applicable
ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations, the Village Engineer shall
issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable. In all instances, it shall be
the duty of the applicant to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Village
Engineer, that the construction proposed under the application shall be in full
compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Additional village review of applications of telecommunications
retailers.
      (1)   Pursuant to section 4 of the Telephone Company Act, ILCS Ch. 220,
Act 65, § 4, a telecommunications retailer shall notify the village that it
intends to commence work governed by this chapter for facilities for the
provision of telecommunications services. This notice shall consist of plans,
specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the purpose
and intent of the facilities, and shall be provided by the telecommunications
retailer to the village not less than 10 days prior to the commencement of work
requiring no excavation and not less than 30 days prior to the commencement of
work requiring excavation. The Village Engineer shall specify the portion of
the right-of-way upon which the facility may be placed, used and constructed.
      (2)   In the event that the Village Engineer fails to provide such
specification of location to the telecommunications retailer within either (i)
10 days after service of notice to the village by the telecommunications
retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for new construction or
(ii) 25 days after service of notice by the telecommunications retailer in the
case of work involving excavation for new construction, the telecommunications
retailer may commence work without obtaining a permit under this chapter.
      (3)   Upon the provision of such specification by the village, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to §
158.10, the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the village an
application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of division (A) above.
   (C)   Additional village review of applications of holders of state
authorization under the Cable and Video Competition Law of 2007. Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a state-issued authorization under the Cable
and Video Competition Law of 2007 (ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-401) shall be
deemed granted 45 days after submission to the village, unless otherwise acted
upon by the village, provided the holder has complied with applicable village
codes, ordinances, and regulations.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 4-22-08)
§ 158.12 EFFECT OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Authority granted; no property right or other interest created. A
permit from the village authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on village rights-of-way, and does
not create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon
the rights of others who may have an interest in the rights-of-way.
   (B)   Duration. No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
period longer than 6 months unless construction is actually begun within that
period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   (C)   Pre-construction meeting required. No construction shall begin
pursuant to a permit issued under this chapter prior to attendance by the
permittee and all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any
work under the permit at a pre-construction meeting. The pre-construction
meeting shall be held at a date, time and place designated by the village with
such village representatives in attendance as the village deems necessary. The
meeting shall be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit, and
reviewing special considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur,
including, without limitation, presence or absence of other utility facilities
in the area and their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other
utilities, use of rights-of-way by the public during construction, and access
and egress by adjacent property owners.
   (D)   Compliance with all laws required. The issuance of a permit by the
village does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the village and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 4-22-08)
§ 158.13 REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS.
   In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the village within 90 days after
the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans shall
specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities deviate from
the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the permit also
deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated as a
request for variance in accordance with § 158.38. If the village denies the
request for a variance, then the permittee shall either remove the facility
from the right-of-way or modify the facility so that it conforms to the permit
and submit revised drawings or plans therefor.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 4-22-08)
Penalty, see § 158.99
§ 158.14 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Required coverages and limits.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or similar
agreement, each utility occupying right-of-way or constructing any facility in
the right-of-way shall secure and maintain the following liability insurance
policies insuring the utility as named insured and naming the village, and its
elected and appointed officers, officials, agents, and employees as additional
insureds on the policies listed in divisions (A)(1)(a) and (b) below:
         (a)   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as “X,” “C,” and “U” coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
            1.   Five million dollars for bodily injury or death to each
person;
            2.   Five million dollars for property damage resulting from any 1
accident; and
            3.   Five million dollars for all other types of liability;
         (b)   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles
with a combined single limit of $1,000,000 for personal injury and property
damage for each accident;
         (c)   Worker’s compensation with statutory limits; and
         (d)   Employer’s liability insurance with limits of not less than
$1,000,000 per employee and per accident.
      (2)   If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the
contractors and subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and
subcontractors shall comply with this division (A).
   (B)   Excess or umbrella policies. The coverages required by this division
(B) may be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any
excess or umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying
insurance on a following-form basis such that when any loss covered by the
primary policy exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or
umbrella policy becomes effective to cover such loss.
   (C)   Copies required. The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the village within 10 days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the village.
   (D)   Maintenance and renewal of required coverages.
      (1)   The insurance policies required by this section shall contain the
following endorsement:
“It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor
the intention not to renew be stated until 30 days after receipt by the
village, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of a
written notice addressed to the village of such intent to cancel or not to
renew.”
      (2)   Within 10 days after receipt by the village of this notice, and in
no event later than 10 days prior to the cancellation, the utility shall obtain
and furnish to the village evidence of replacement insurance policies meeting
the requirements of this section.
   (E)   Self-insurance. A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by division (A) above. A
utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such self-
insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional insureds
under division (A) above, or the requirements of divisions (B), (C) and (D)
above. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide to the village
evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required under division (A) above,
such as evidence that the utility is a “private self insurer” under the
Worker’s Compensation Act.
   (F)   Effect of insurance and self-insurance on utility’s liability. The
legal liability of the utility to the village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   (G)   Insurance companies. All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the State of Illinois.
All insurance carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated “A-” or better
and of a class size “X” or higher by A.M. Best Company.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 4-22-08)
Penalty, see § 158.99
§ 158.15 INDEMNIFICATION.
   By occupying or constructing facilities in the right-of-way, a utility shall
be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the village and its elected
and appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney’s fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights-of-way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license, or similar agreement;
provided, however, that the utility’s indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this
article by the village, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 4-22-08)
§ 158.16 SECURITY.
   (A)   Purpose. The permittee shall establish a security fund in a form and
in the amount set forth in this section. The security fund shall be
continuously maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee’s sole
cost and expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit.
The security fund shall serve as security for:
      (1)   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements
of this chapter;
      (2)   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the village occasioned
by the permittee’s failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations,
orders, permits and other directives of the village issued pursuant to this
chapter; and
      (3)   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the village may pay or incur by reason of any action or
non-performance by permittee in violation of this chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform that the village must perform itself or
have completed as a consequence solely of the permittee’s failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the village from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter or any other applicable law.
   (B)   Form. The permittee shall provide the security fund to the village in
the form of cash or an unconditional letter of credit in a form acceptable to
the village. Any letter of credit provided pursuant to this division (B) shall,
at a minimum:
      (1)   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
village and the permittee;
      (2)   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the village of any amounts covered by it; and
      (3)   Shall provide a location convenient to the village and within the
State of Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   (C)   Amount. The dollar amount of the security fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the Village Engineer, and may also include reasonable,
directly related costs that the village estimates are likely to be incurred if
the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where the construction of
facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in phases in multiple
locations in the village, with each phase consisting of construction of
facilities in 1 location or a related group of locations, and where
construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the Village Engineer
may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee to post a single
amount of security which shall be applicable to each phase of the construction
under the permit. The amount of the security fund for phased construction shall
be equal to the greatest amount that would have been required under the
provisions of this division (C) for any single phase.
   (D)   Withdrawals. The village, upon 14 days’ advance written notice clearly
stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal rights under
this division (D), may withdraw an amount from the security fund, provided that
the permittee has not reimbursed the village for such amount within the 14-day
notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
      (1)   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      (2)   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      (3)   Fails to reimburse the village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or non-performance by the permittee; or
      (4)   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the village
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the security fund.
   (E)   Replenishment. Within 14 days after receipt of written notice from the
village that any amount has been withdrawn from the security fund, the
permittee shall restore the security fund to the amount specified in division
(C) above.
   (F)   Interest. The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the security fund be returned to the permittee by the village,
upon written request for the withdrawal to the village, provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the security fund below the minimum balance required
in division (C) above.
   (G)   Closing and return of security fund. Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the security fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the village for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the security fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the village to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the village as a result of the revocation, provided
that any amounts in excess of the costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
   (H)   Rights not limited. The rights reserved to the village with respect to
the security fund are in addition to all other rights of the village, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to the security fund shall affect
any other right the village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 4-22-08)
Penalty, see § 158.99
§ 158.17 PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Village right to revoke permit. The village may revoke or suspend a
permit issued pursuant to this chapter for 1 or more of the following reasons:
      (1)   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      (2)   Non-compliance with this chapter;
      (3)   Permittee’s physical presence or presence of permittee’s facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-of-way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
or
      (4)   Permittee’s failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   (B)   Notice of revocation or suspension. The village shall send written
notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   (C)   Permittee alternatives upon receipt of notice of revocation or
suspension. 
      (1)   Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the village, the permittee shall have the following options:
         (a)   Immediately provide the village with evidence that no cause
exists for the revocation or suspension;
         (b)   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the village within 5 working days after receipt of the written
notice of revocation; or
         (c)   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-of-way and restore the rights-
of-way to the satisfaction of the village providing written proof of such
removal to the village within 10 days after receipt of the written notice of
revocation.
      (2)   The village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend
the time periods provided in this division (C).
   (D)   Stop work order. In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the village may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within division (A)
above.
   (E)   Failure or refusal of the permittee to comply.
      (1)   If the permittee fails to comply with the provisions of division
(C) above, the village or its designee may, at the option of the village:
         (a)   Correct the deficiencies;
         (b)   Upon not less than 20 days’ notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment; or
         (c)   After not less than 30 days’ notice to the permittee of failure
to cure the non-compliance, deem them abandoned and property of the village.
      (2)   The permittee shall be liable in all events to the village for all
costs of removal.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 4-22-08)
Penalty, see § 158.99
§ 158.18 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER’S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS.
   (A)   Notification of change. A utility shall notify the village no less
than 30 days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the right-
of-way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility or
the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right-of-way.
   (B)   Amended permit. A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the village’s right-
of-way.
   (C)   Insurance; bonding. All required insurance coverage or bonding must be
changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 4-22-08)
Penalty, see § 158.99
CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
§ 158.30 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards; principles. All construction in the right-of-way shall be
consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws rules and regulations, and
commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction principles,
sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles and standards
set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from time to time:
      (1)   Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction;
      (2)   Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions;
      (3)   Highway Design Manual;
      (4)   Highway Standards Manual;
      (5)   Standard Specifications for Traffic Control Items;
      (6)   Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (92 Ill. Adm.
Code § 545);
      (7)   Flagger’s Handbook; and
      (8)   Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations.
   (B)   Interpretation of municipal standards and principles. If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the Village Engineer shall determine, in the exercise of sound
engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall be final.
If requested, the Village Engineer shall state which standard or principle will
apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation of a facility in the
future.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 4-22-08)
Penalty, see § 158.99
§ 158.31 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. The village’s minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT’s Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices and this code.
   (B)   Warning signs, protective devices, and flaggers. The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility’s workers when
performing any work on the rights-of-way.
   (C)   Interference with traffic. All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Notice when access is blocked. At least 48 hours prior to beginning
work that will partially or completely block access to any residence, business
or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or institution
of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work; provided, however,
that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to §
158.37, the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable under the
circumstances.
   (E)   Compliance. The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility’s attention by the village.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 4-22-08)
Penalty, see § 158.99
§ 158.32 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   General requirements. In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this division
(A).
      (1)   No interference with village facilities. No utility facilities
shall be placed in any location if the Village Engineer determines that the
proposed location will require the relocation or displacement of any of the
village’s utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation or
maintenance of any of the village’s utility facilities.
      (2)   Minimum interference and impact. The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right-of-way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin the right-of-
way.
      (3)   No interference with travel. No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right-of-way.
      (4)   No limitations on visibility. No utility facility shall be placed
in any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right-of-way.
      (5)   Size of utility facilities. The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
   (B)   Parallel facilities located within highways.
      (1)   Overhead parallel facilities. An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way
line and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole
alignment will permit;
         (b)   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable
from the curb with a minimum distance of 2 feet (0.6 m) behind the face of the
curb, where available;
         (c)   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of 4 feet (1.2 m) outside the outer
shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         (d)    No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         (e)   Any ground-mounted appurtenance is located within 1 foot (0.3 m)
of the right-of-way line or as near as possible to the right-of-way line.
      (2)   Underground parallel facilities. An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   The facility is located as near the right-of-way line as
practicable and not more than 8 feet (2.4 m) from and parallel to the right-of-
way line;
         (b)   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         (c)   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right-of-way line as practicable and not
more than 5 feet (1.5 m) from the right-of-way line and any above-grounded
appurtenance shall be located within 1 foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line or
as near as practicable.
   (C)   Facilities crossing highways.
      (1)   No future disruption. The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of village highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      (2)   Cattle passes, culverts, or drainage facilities. Crossing
facilities shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage
facilities.
      (3)   Ninety-degree crossing required. Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a 90-degree angle to the centerline as practicable.
      (4)   Overhead power or communication facility. An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC’s
rules entitled, “Construction of Electric Power and Communication Lines” (83
Ill. Adm. Code 305);
         (b)   Poles are located within 1 foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line
of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         (c)   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      (5)   Underground power or communication facility. An underground power
or communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance-free service life; and
         (b)   Capacity for the utility’s foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      (6)   Markers. The village may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right-of-way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations (49 C.F.R. § 192.707
(1989)).
   (D)   Facilities to be located within particular rights-of-way. The village
may require that facilities be located within particular rights-of-way that are
not highways, rather than within particular highways.
   (E)   Freestanding facilities.
      (1)   The village may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right-of-way.
      (2)   The village may require any freestanding facility located within a
right-of-way to be screened from view.
   (F)   Facilities installed above ground. Above ground facilities may be
installed only if:
      (1)   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      (2)   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      (3)   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single-pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
   (G)   Facility attachments to bridges or roadway structures.
      (1)   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      (2)   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         (a)   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         (b)   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         (c)   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         (d)   The proposed method of attachment;
         (e)   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         (f)   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         (g)   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         (h)   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   (H)   Appearance standards.
      (1)   The village may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      (2)   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right-of-way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 4-22-08)
Penalty, see § 158.99
§ 158.33 CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   Standards and requirements for particular types of construction
methods.
      (1)   Boring or jacking.
         (a)   Pits and shoring. Boring or jacking under rights-of-way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the Village
Engineer from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking shall be
excavated no more than 48 hours in advance of boring or jacking operations and
backfilled within 48 hours after boring or jacking operations are completed.
While pits are open, they shall be clearly marked and protected by barricades.
Shoring shall be designed, erected, supported, braced, and maintained so that
it will safely support all vertical and lateral loads that may be imposed upon
it during the boring or jacking operation.
         (b)   Wet boring or jetting. Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         (c)   Borings with diameters greater than 6 inches. Borings over 6
inches (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and following
pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside diameter of
the following pipe by more than 1 inch (25 mm).
         (d)   Borings with diameters of 6 inches or less. Borings of 6 inches
or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with auger,
or auger and following pipe method.
         (e)   Tree preservation. Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the village to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
      (2)   Trenching. Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights-of-way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of Section 603 of IDOT’s “Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction.”
         (a)   Length. The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe-line testing. Only 1/
2 of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless special
permission is obtained from the Village Engineer.
         (b)   Open trench and excavated material. Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by Chapter 6 of the Illinois
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right-of-way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off-road location.
         (c)   Drip line of trees. The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the village to be preserved.
      (3)   Backfilling.
         (a)   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation
of facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT’s “Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction.” When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         (b)   For a period of 3 years from the date construction of a facility
is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore any
backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the Engineer, the utility, at its expense, shall remove any pavement
and backfill material to the top of the installed facility, place and properly
compact new backfill material, and restore new pavement, sidewalk, curbs, and
driveways to the proper grades, as determined by the Engineer.
      (4)   Pavement cuts. Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this division (A)(4)
is permitted under §
158.38, the following requirements shall apply:
         (a)   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as
designated by the Engineer.
         (b)   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the village.
         (c)   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         (d)   For all rights-of-way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last 7 years, or resurfaced in the last 3 years,
permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to be an emergency
repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before the time of the
reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a J.U.L.I.E. locate.
      (5)   Encasement.
         (a)   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by 1-piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
village.
         (b)   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within 1
foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line. No above-ground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         (c)   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or village approved
jointed pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is
installed prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or
mechanical joints are of a type approved by the village. Bell and spigot type
pipe shall be encased regardless of installation method.
         (d)   In the case of gas pipelines of 60 psig or less, encasement may
be eliminated.
         (e)   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines
with installations of more than 60 psig, encasement may be eliminated only if:
            1.   Extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or
repair; and
            2.   Cathodic protection of the pipe is provided;
         (f)   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
         (g)   Minimum cover of underground facilities. Cover shall be provided
and maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for
minimum cover for the type of facility:
 
TYPE OF FACILITY                      MINIMUM COVER
Electric Lines                        30 Inches (0.8 m)
Communication, Cable or Video Service 18 to 24 inches (0.6 m, as determined by
Lines                                 village)
Gas or Petroleum Products             30 Inches (0.8 m)
Water Line                            Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                      protection
Sanitary Sewer, Storm Sewer, or       Sufficient cover to provide freeze
Drainage Line                         protection
 
   (B)   Standards and requirements for particular types of facilities.
      (1)   Electric power or communication lines.
         (a)   Code compliance. Electric power or communications facilities
within village rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Ill. Adm. Code Part 305 (formerly General
Order 160 of the Illinois Commerce Commission) entitled “Rules for Construction
of Electric Power and Communications Lines,” and the National Electrical Safety
Code.
         (b)   Overhead facilities. Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guy wires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         (c)   Underground facilities.
            1.   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            2.   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if:
               A.   The crossing is installed by the use of “moles,” “whip
augers,” or other approved method which compress the earth to make the opening
for cable installation; or
               B.   The installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            3.   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the National
Electrical Safety Code.
         (d)   Burial of drops. All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snowdrops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the village. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snowdrops, within 10 business days after
placement.
      (2)   Underground facilities other than electric power or communication
lines. Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         (a)   The use of “moles,” “whip augers,” or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         (b)   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         (c)   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         (d)   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is
not possible by other means.
      (3)   Gas transmission, distribution and service. Gas pipelines within
rights-of-way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a village
approved manner and in conformance with the Federal Code of the Office of
Pipeline Safety Operations, Department of Transportation, Part 192-
Transportation of Natural and Other Gas by Pipeline: Minimum Federal Safety
Standards (49 CFR § 192), IDOT’s “Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction,” and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      (4)   Petroleum products pipelines. Petroleum products pipelines within
rights-of-way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI Standard Code
for Pressure Piping (Liquid Petroleum Transportation Piping Systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      (5)   Waterlines, sanitary sewer lines, storm water sewer lines or
drainage lines. Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and
drainage lines within rights-of-way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current “Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois.”
      (6)   Ground-mounted appurtenances. Ground-mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right-of-way, shall
be provided with a vegetation-free area extending 1 foot (305 mm) in width
beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation-free area may be
provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the Engineer. With the approval of the Engineer,
shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be used in place of vegetation-free
area. The housing for ground-mounted appurtenances shall be painted a neutral
color to blend with the surroundings.
   (C)   Materials.
      (1)   General standards. The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT’s “Standards
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction,” the requirements of the
Illinois Commerce Commission, or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      (2)   Material storage on right-of-way. No material shall be stored on
the right-of-way without the prior written approval of the Village Engineer.
When such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles, cross arms, or
other materials shall be distributed along the right-of-way prior to and during
installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an obstacle to
right-of-way maintenance or damage to the right-of-way and other property. If
material is to be stored on right-of-way, prior approval must be obtained from
the village.
      (3)   Hazardous materials. The plans submitted by the utility to the
village shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the
construction of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   (D)   Operational restrictions.
      (1)   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion of
the village, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right-of-way or other
property.
      (2)   These restrictions may be waived by the Engineer when emergency
work is required to restore vital utility services.
      (3)   Unless otherwise permitted by the village, the hours of
construction are those set forth in the village’s ordinances.
   (E)   Location of existing facilities. Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the village shall contact J.U.L.I.E. and ascertain the presence
and location of existing above-ground and underground facilities within the
rights-of-way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The village will make
its permit records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying
possible facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the
village or by J.U.L.I.E., a utility shall locate and physically mark its
underground facilities within 48 hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in
accordance with the Illinois Underground Facilities Damage Prevention Act (ILCS
Ch. 220, Act 50, §§ 1 et seq.).
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 4-22-08)
Penalty, see § 158.99
§ 158.34 VEGETATION CONTROL.
   (A)   Electric utilities - compliance with state laws and regulations. An
electric utility shall conduct all tree-trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right-of-way in accordance with applicable Illinois laws and
regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the village as permitted by law.
   (B)   Other utilities - tree trimming permit required. Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right-of-way and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable Illinois laws and regulations specifically
governing same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this chapter.
      (1)   Application for tree trimming permit. Applications for tree
trimming permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by
competent workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      (2)   Damage to trees. Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The village will
require compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed
without authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The village may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   (C)   Specimen trees or trees of special significance. The village may
require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of
special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side
arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
   (D)   Chemical use.
      (1)   Except as provided in (D)(2) below, no utility shall spray, inject
or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or vegetation in the village
for any purpose, including the control of growth, insects or disease.
      (2)   Spraying of any type of brush-killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights-of-way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the Engineer that such spraying is the only practicable method of vegetation
control.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 4-22-08)
Penalty, see § 158.99
§ 158.35 REMOVAL, RELOCATION OR MODIFICATION OF UTILITY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Notice. Within 90 days following written notice from the village, a
utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or permanently
disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any utility
facilities within the rights-of-way whenever the corporate authorities have
determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is reasonably
necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation of any
village improvement in or upon, or the operations of the village in or upon,
the rights-of-way.
   (B)   Removal of unauthorized facilities. Within 30 days following written
notice from the village, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains any
unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights-of-way shall,
at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or appurtenances
from the rights-of-way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to removal in
the following circumstances:
      (1)   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee’s license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      (2)   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior
grant of a license or franchise, if required;
      (3)   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      (4)   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee’s license or franchise.
   (C)   Emergency removal or relocation of facilities. The village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the village, as the village may determine to be necessary, appropriate
or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
   (D)   Abandonment of facilities. Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights-of-way of the village, the utility shall notify the village within 90
days. Following receipt of such notice the village may direct the utility to
remove all or any portion of the facility if the Village Engineer determines
that such removal will be in the best interest of the public health, safety and
welfare. In the event that the village does not direct the utility that
abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice of abandonment to the
village, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to consent to the alteration or
removal of all or any portion of the facility by another utility or person.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 4-22-08)
Penalty, see § 158.99
§ 158.36 CLEAN-UP; RESTORATION.
   The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and
terrain and other property within 10 days after any portion of the rights-of-
way are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or maintenance by
the utility, all to the satisfaction of the village. This includes restoration
of entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made
using materials and methods approved by the Village Engineer. Such clean-up and
repair may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading, reseeding,
resodding, or any other requirement to restore the right-of-way to a condition
substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to the commencement of the
project. The time period provided in this section may be extended by the
Village Engineer for good cause shown.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 4-22-08)
Penalty, see § 158.99
§ 158.37 MAINTENANCE; EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   General. Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the village and at the utility’s expense.
   (B)   Emergency maintenance procedures. Emergencies may justify non-
compliance with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      (1)   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      (2)   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
Village Engineer or his or her duly authorized agent of the emergency,
informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection of the
traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary repairs. If
the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free movement of
traffic, the appropriate county sheriff’s department shall be notified
immediately.
      (3)   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to
complete repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to
the traveling public.
   (C)   Emergency repairs. The utility must file in writing with the village a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way within 48 hours after
an emergency repair.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 4-22-08)
Penalty, see § 158.99
§ 158.38 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Request for variance. A utility requesting a variance from 1 or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the Village Engineer
as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify each provision
of this chapter from which a variance is requested and the reasons why a
variance should be granted.
   (B)   Authority to grant variances. The Village Engineer shall decide
whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this chapter identified
in the variance request on an individual basis.
   (C)   Conditions for granting of variance. The Village Engineer may
authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the variance has
demonstrated that:
      (1)   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such
as terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special
hardship that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the
public purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      (2)   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   (D)   Additional conditions for granting of a variance. As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the Village Engineer may require the utility requesting
the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions that may or may not be
expressly contained within this chapter but which carry out the purposes of
this chapter.
   (E)   Right to appeal. Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the Village
Engineer under the provisions of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to
the Village Board, or such other board or commission as it may designate. The
application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the Village Clerk
within 30 days after the date of such order, requirement, decision or
determination. The Village Board shall commence its consideration of the appeal
at the Board’s next regularly scheduled meeting occurring at least 7 days after
the filing of the appeal. The Village Board shall timely decide the appeal.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 4-22-08)
§ 158.98 ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 4-22-08)
§ 158.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to fine in accordance
with the penalty provisions of this code. There may be times when the village
will incur delay or other costs, including third party claims, because the
utility will not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and this
chapter. Unless the utility shows that another allocation of the cost of
undertaking the requested action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the
village’s costs of damages and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying,
relocating, or removing the facility that is the subject of the permit. No
other administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a permit
related cost apportionment of the village. Sanctions may be imposed upon a
utility that does not pay the costs apportioned to it.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 4-22-08)
CHAPTER 159: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
159.01   Comprehensive Plan adopted
§ 159.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED.
   The document entitled “Village of Diamond Comprehensive Plan” and dated
December, 2024, is hereby adopted as the Official Comprehensive Land Use Plan
for the Village of Diamond, and is hereby made a part of this code the same as
if set forth in full herein.
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 8-10-2010; Am. Ord. 2015-07, passed 6-23-2015; Am. Ord.
2024-20, passed 12-10-2024)
CHAPTER 160: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES IN RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Section
   
160.01   Purpose and scope
   
160.02   Definitions
   
160.03   Permitted use
   
160.04   Permit required
   
160.05   Completeness of application
   
160.06   Application process
   
160.07   Tolling
   
160.08   Consolidated applications
   
160.09   Collocation completion deadline
   
160.10   Duration of permits
   
160.11   Repeal
   
160.12   Means of submitting applications
   
160.13   Application fees
   
160.14   Application requirements
   
160.15   License agreement
   
160.16   Public safety space reservation
   
160.17   Alternate placements
   
160.18   Height limitations
   
160.19   Requirements
   
160.20   Design standards
   
160.21   Exceptions to applicability
   
160.22   Pre-existing agreements
   
160.23   Annual recurring rate
   
160.24   Aerial facilities
   
160.25   Abandonment
   
160.26   Dispute resolution
   
160.27   Indemnification
   
160.28   Insurance
   
160.29   Change of ownership, owner’s identity or legal status
   
160.30   Effect of permit
§ 160.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the village’s jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the village exclusively for commercial or
industrial use. in a manner that is consistent with the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act. ILCS Ch. 50, Act 835, §§ 1 et seq.
   (B)   Conflicts with other ordinances. This chapter supersedes all chapters
or parts of chapters of the Village of Diamond Code of Ordinances adopted prior
hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
   (C)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or State of Illinois laws or regulations conflict with the requirements
of this chapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of
this chapter to the maximum extent possible so long as this chapter is not in
violation of federal or State of Illinois laws or regulations.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 160.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the
following meanings:
   ACT. Illinois Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act (ILCS Ch. 50, Act
835, §§ 1 et seq.) and; as may be amended from time to time.
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Public right-of-way ordinances of general application and
uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing, or mechanical codes adopted by a
recognized national code organization or local amendments to those codes, as
incorporated into the Village Code of Ordinances including the National
Electric Safety Code.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant to the village for a permit
to collocate small wireless facilities, or a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
   AUTHORITY. Village and units of local government that have jurisdiction and
control for use of public rights-of-way as provided by the Illinois Highway
Code for placements within public rights-of-way or has zoning or land use
control for placements not within public rights-of-way.
   AUTHORITY UTILITY POLE. Utility pole owned and operated by an Authority in
public rights-of-way.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Cable service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6), as
amended; information service, as defined In 47 U.S.C. § 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53), as amended;
mobile service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53), as amended; or wireless
service other than mobile service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator, as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
522(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
§ 153(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
153(51), as amended; or a wireless provider.
   DESIGN STANDARDS. Criteria established by this chapter to reasonably reduce
the visual impact of small wireless facilities in designated areas of the
village.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FEE. A one-time charge.
   HISTORIC LANDMARK. A building, property, or site, or group of buildings,
properties, or sites that are either (i) listed in the National Register of
Historic Places or formally determined eligible for listing by the Keeper of
the National Register, the individual who has been delegated the authority by
the federal agency to list properties and determine their eligibility for the
National Register, in accordance with §§ VI.D.1.a.i through VI.D.1.a.v of the
Nationwide Programmatic Agreement codified at 47 C.F.R. Part 1, Appendix C; or
(ii) designated as a locally landmarked building, property, site, or historic
district by an ordinance adopted by the village pursuant to a preservation
program that meets the requirements of the Certified Local Government Program
of the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office or where such certification
of the preservation program by the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office
is pending.
   LAW. A federal or State of Illinois statute, common law, code, rule,
regulation, order, or local ordinance or resolution.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   PERMIT. A written authorization required by the village to perform an action
or initiate, continue, or complete a project subject to this chapter.
   PERMITTED USE. A small wireless facility: applied for; installed and
operated in full conformance with the Act and this chapter.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. The functional division of the federal government, the
State of Illinois, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district
located in whole or in part within Illinois, that provides or has authority to
provide firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services
to respond to and manage emergency incidents.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible
use. RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include Authority owned aerial lines.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets all of the following
qualifications: (i) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than
six cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed
elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an
imaginary enclosure of no more than six cubic feet; and (ii) all other wireless
equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the facility is
cumulatively no more than 25 cubic feet in volume. The following types of
associated ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of equipment
volume: electric meter, concealment elements, telecommunications demarcation
box, ground-based enclosures, grounding equipment, power transfer switch, cut-
off switch, and vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other
services, and as may be subject to the design standards of this chapter.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part
by a communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control, or a similar function.
   VARIATION. A variance granted by the Village Board to the height or design
standards of this chapter.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Diamond.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
(i) equipment associated with wireless communications; and (ii) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
Wireless facility includes small wireless facilities. WIRELESS FACILITY does
not include: (i) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or (ii) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber
optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or
coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in Illinois that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission  equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the Authority.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 160.03 PERMITTED USE.
   Small wireless facilities are permitted uses and are subject to
administrative review, except as provided in §§
160.18 and
160.19 regarding height exceptions or variances and design standards, but not
subject to zoning review or approval if they are collocated (i) in rights-of-
way in any zoning district or (ii) outside rights-of-way in property zoned
exclusively for commercial or industrial use, or (iii) in compatible use
easements. Utility poles owned and operated by entities other than the village
or a franchisee utility and which are intended for uses other than the
collocation of small wireless facilities are not permitted uses.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 160.04 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from the village to collocate
a small wireless facility. An application received shall be processed, and
permits issued shall be subject to all terms, conditions and requirements of
the Act and this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 160.05 COMPLETENESS OF APPLICATION.
   Within 30 days after receiving an application, the village shall determine
whether the application is complete and notify the applicant, if an application
is incomplete, the village must specifically identify the missing information.
An application shall be deemed complete if the village fails to provide
notification to the applicant within 30 days after all documents, information
and fees specifically required by the village’s permit application are
submitted by the applicant to the village. Processing deadlines are toiled from
the time the village sends the notice of incompleteness to the time the
applicant provides the missing information.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 160.06 APPLICATION PROCESS.
   The village shall process applications as follows:
   (A)   The first completed application shall have priority over applications
received by different applicants for collocation on the same utility pole or
wireless support structure.
   (B)   (1)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the village fails to
approve or deny the application within 90 days after the submission of a
completed application.
      (2)   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the village in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than 75
days after the submission of a completed application.
      (3)   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 90th day
after submission of the complete application or the tenth day after the receipt
of the deemed approved notice by the village. The receipt of the deemed
approved notice shall not preclude the village’s denial of the permit request
within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole or a new wireless support
structure shall be processed on a nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved
if the village fails to approve or deny the application within 120 days after
the submission of a completed application.
      (2)   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the village in
writing of its intention to Invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than
105 days after the submission of a completed application.
      (3)   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 120th day
after submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the receipt
of the deemed approved notice by the village. The receipt of the deemed
approved notice shall not preclude the village’s denial of the permit request
within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
   (D)   The village shall deny an application which does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   If the village determines that applicable codes, ordinances or
regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and
conditions contained herein require that the utility pole or wireless support
structure be replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall be
conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or wireless support
structure at the cost of the applicant or provider.
   (F)   The village shall document the basis for a denial, including the
specific code provisions or application conditions on which the denial is
based, and send the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the
village denies an application.
   (G)   The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the village and
resubmit the revised application once within 30 days after notice of denial is
sent to the applicant without paying an additional application fee. The village
shall approve or deny the revised application within 30 days after the
applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure to
resubmit the revised application within 30 days of denial shall require the
application to submit a new application with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the village’s review period.
   (H)   The applicant must notify the village in writing of its intention to
proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, which may be
submitted with the revised application.
   (I)   Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the
deficiencies cited in the denial. However, this revised application does not
apply if the cure requires the review of a new location, new or different
structure to be collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment
associated with the small wireless facility.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 160.07 TOLLING.
   The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
   (A)   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the village; or
   (B)   A local, Illinois or federal disaster declaration or similar emergency
that causes the delay.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 160.08 CONSOLIDATED APPLICATIONS.
   An applicant seeking to collocate small wireless facilities which qualify as
permitted uses under §
160.03 shall be allowed, at the applicant’s discretion, to file a consolidated
application and receive a single permit for the collocation of up to 25 small
wireless facilities if the collocations each involve substantially the same
type of small wireless facility and substantially the same type of utility pole
or wireless support structures. Each consolidated application shall provide all
the information required by §
160.14(A) through (G) of this chapter for each small wireless facility at each
location. If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the
village may remove small wireless facility collocations from the application
and treat separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The village may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 160.09 COLLOCATION COMPLETION DEADLINE.
   Collocation for which a permit is granted shall be completed within 180 days
after issuance of the permit, unless the village and the wireless provider
agree to extend this period or a delay is caused by make-ready work for an
authority utility pole or by the lack of commercial power or backhaul
availability at the site, provided the wireless provider has made a timely
request within 60 days after the issuance of the permit for commercial power or
backhaul services, and the additional time to complete installation does not
exceed 360 days after issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the permit shall be
void unless the village grants an extension in writing to the applicant.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 160.10 DURATION OF PERMITS.
   The duration of a permit shall be for a period of five years, and the permit
shall be renewed for equivalent durations unless the village makes a finding
that the small wireless facilities or the new or modified utility pole or
wireless support structure does not comply with the applicable village codes or
any provision, condition or requirement contained in this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 160.11 REPEAL.
   If the Act is repealed or found unconstitutional by a court of competent
jurisdiction, all permits granted by the village under this chapter shall
terminate at the end of their current term.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 160.12 MEANS OF SUBMITTING APPLICATIONS.
   Applicants shall submit applications, supporting information and notices by
personal delivery to the Planning and Zoning Department at Diamond Village Hall
located at 1750 E. Division Street, Diamond, IL 60416 or as otherwise required
by the village.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 160.13 APPLICATION FEES.
   Application fees are imposed as follows:
   (A)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $650 for an application to
collocate a single small wireless facility on an existing utility pole or
wireless support structure, and $350 for each small wireless facility addressed
in an application to collocate more than one small wireless facility on
existing utility poles or wireless support structures.
   (B)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $1,000 for each small
wireless facility addressed in an application that includes the installation of
a new utility pole or wireless support structures for such collocation.
   (C)   All applications shall be accompanied by the required application fee.
Application fees shall be non-refundable.
   (D)   The village shall not require an application, approval or permit, or
require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
      (1)   Routine maintenance;
      (2)   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the village at least ten days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with the requirements of §
160.14 (Application Requirements); or
      (3)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or replacement
of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung between
existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes, excluding
village aerial lines.
   (E)   Wireless providers shall secure a separate permit from the Village to
work within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or
require lane closures.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 160.14 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   A wireless provider shall provide the following information to the village
as a condition of any permit application to collocate small wireless facilities
on a utility pole or wireless support structure:
   (A)   Site specific structural integrity and, for an authority utility pole,
make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is defined
in § 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
   (B)   The location where each proposed small wireless facility utility pole
or wireless support structure would be installed and photographs of the
location and its immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or
structures on which each proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or
location where utility poles or structures would be installed.
   (C)   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer, as that
term is defined in § 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989, for
each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as it is
proposed to be installed;
   (D)   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all other
wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
   (E)   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each small
wireless facility covered by the application, if approved;
   (F)   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant’s
knowledge; and
   (G)   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole or wireless support structure owned by an entity
other than the village, the wireless provider shall provide legally competent
evidence of the consent of the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 160.15 LICENSE AGREEMENT.
   Village staff and the Village Attorney shall prepare a license agreement as
allowed by the Act which shall Include supplements for each small wireless
facility Installation. Submission of an executed license agreement within 30
days after the applicant has been notified that its application is complete
shall be a condition precedent to the issuance of the permit. An applicant may
request modifications to a license agreement which may be approved by the
Village Zoning Administrator. If the Village Zoning Administrator refuses to
approve the modifications, the applicant may appeal such determination to the
Village Board. The appeal shall be in writing and specify the applicant’s
proposed modifications and reasons for the request. Village staff will schedule
a request for modifications on the Village Board agenda no later than 21 days
after the receipt of the applicant’s written request.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 160.16 PUBLIC SAFETY SPACE RESERVATION.
   The village shall reserve space on village owned utility poles for future
public safety uses, for the village’s electric utility uses, or both, but a
reservation of space may not preclude the collocation of a small wireless
facility unless the village reasonably determines that the village utility pole
cannot accommodate both uses.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 160.17 ALTERNATE PLACEMENTS.
   With respect to an application for the collocation of a small wireless
facility associated with a new utility pole, the village may propose that the
small wireless facility be collocated on an existing utility pole or existing
wireless support structure within 100 feet of the proposed collocation, which
the applicant shall accept if it has the right to use the alternate structure
on reasonable terms and conditions, and the alternate location and structure
does not impose technical limits or additional material costs as determined by
the applicant. If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the village,
the applicant shall provide written certification describing the property
rights, technical limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does
not satisfy the criteria in this section. It shall be the burden of the
applicant, by presentation of legally competent evidence, to establish that the
village’s alternative proposed collocation imposes technical limits or
additional material costs that render the alternative collocation unreasonable.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 160.18 HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   The maximum height of a small wireless facility which qualifies as a
permitted use under §
160.03 of this chapter shall be no more than ten feet above the utility pole or
wireless support structure on which the small wireless facility is collocated.
   (A)   If an applicant proposes a height in excess of ten feet above a
utility pole or wireless support structure on which the small wireless facility
is proposed for installation, the applicant shall apply for a variation. The
variation application shall require public notice as set forth in §
151.202(D)(5) of the Diamond Zoning Ordinance and a public hearing. All
publication costs shall be born by the applicant. Hearing of the variation
application shall be set before the Village Board. If shall be the burden of
the applicant requesting the variation to establish that the proposed variation
in height:
      (1)   Is technically necessary to provide service:
      (2)   Is not merely for the convenience of the applicant;
      (3)   Is due to unique circumstances of that the variation, if granted,
will not alter the essential character of the locality;
      (4)   Is due to the particular physical surroundings, shape, or
topographical conditions of the proposed location which would bring a
particular hardship upon the applicant if the height variation is not granted;
      (5)   Has not been the result of conditions created by the applicant;
      (6)   Will not be detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to other
property improvements in the neighborhood in which the property is located; and
      (7)   Will not endanger the public safety or substantially diminish or
impair property values within 100 feet of the proposed height variation.
   (B)   The variation hearing shall be heard by the Village Board and may be
continued from time to time to allow a thorough exposition of evidence
associated with the variation standards described herein. A variance when
granted shall limit the height of any proposed wireless facility to the higher
of:
      (1)   Ten feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole, other
than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place on
the date the application is submitted to the village, that is located within
300 feet of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structure and that is
in the same right-of-way within the jurisdictional boundary of the village,
provided the village may designate which intersecting right-of-way within 300
feet of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structures shall control
the height limitation for such facility; or
      (2)   Forty-five (45) feet above ground level.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 160.19 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of
the type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a
public safety agency’s communications equipment. The wireless provider’s
operation of the small wireless facilities shall not interfere with the
frequencies used by a public safety agency for public safety communications.
      (2)   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC’s regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
      (3)   If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the
wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
village or public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense,
shall remedy the interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and
resolution procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established
by the FCC including 47 C.F.R. §§ 22.970 through 47 C.F.R. § 22.973 and 47
C.F.R. § 90.672 through 47 C.F.R. § 90.675.
      (4)   The village may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility
based on such interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with
the Code of Federal Regulations cited above. The burden to establish the good
faith effort shall be on the wireless provider which shall timely deliver to
the village all information necessary to determine its efforts to resolve the
interference consistent with the sections of the Codes of Federal Regulations
cited above. Failure to remedy the problem as required herein shall constitute
a public nuisance and violation of this section subjecting the wireless
provider to injunctive relief as well as fines consistent with the Village Code
of Ordinances.
   (B)   The wireless provider shall comply with requirements that are imposed
by a contract between the village and a private property owner that concern
design or construction standards applicable to utility poles, wireless support
structures; and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way, such as
planned unit development agreements, subdivision improvement agreements and
annexation agreements.
   (C)   The wireless provider shall comply with spacing requirements in
applicable codes and ordinances concerning the location of ground-mounted
equipment located in the right-of-way. Ground mounted Facilities as defined in
Chapter 158 of the Diamond Code of Ordinances in the right-of-way shall not be
considered a small wireless facility and shall comply with the requirements of
Chapter 158.
   (D)   The wireless provider shall comply with local code provisions or
regulations concerning undergrounding requirements that prohibit the
installation of new utility pole or the modification of existing utility poles
in a right-of-way unless it complies with the village’s design standards. If a
permit is denied based on a conclusion that the proposed design does not comply
with this chapter, an applicant may appeal to the Village Board following the
procedures and standards set forth in §
160.18.
   (E)   The wireless provider shall comply with generally applicable standards
adopted by the village that are consistent with the Act pertaining to
construction and public safety in the rights-of-way and Chapter 158 of the
Village Code of Ordinances, including, but not limited to reasonable and
nondiscriminatory wiring and cabling requirements, grounding requirements,
utility pole extension requirements and signage limitations; and shall comply
with reasonable nondiscriminatory requirements that are in the Act and adopted
by the Village regulating the location, size, surface area and height of small
wireless facilities, or the abandonment and removal of small wireless
facilities.
   (F)   (1)   The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless
facilities on village utility poles that are part of an electric distribution
or transmission system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole
or the electric supply zone of the utility pole.
      (2)   However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless
facility may be located in the communications space on the village utility pole
and on the top of the utility pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the
wireless provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of
the utility pole.
      (3)   For purposes of this subparagraph, the terms COMMUNICATIONS SPACE,
COMMUNICATION WORKER SAFETY ZONE, and ELECTRIC SUPPLY ZONE have the meanings
given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published by the
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
   (G)   For small wireless facilities installations on village traffic signals
or traffic lighting poles, the wireless provider shall accept all maintenance
responsibility of the village’s traffic signal or street lighting equipment for
the duration of the installation activity. The transfer of protection,
operation and maintenance shall be to a qualified contractor that is
prequalified by I DOT in the electrical category. All traffic signal
maintenance activity shall be completed by personnel certified by IMSA as a
Level II Traffic Signal Technician. Any subsequent routine maintenance and/or
modification to the wireless telecommunications facility may require a
maintenance transfer of the village’s traffic signal or lighting equipment at
the discretion of Village Engineer.
   (H)   The wireless provider shall comply with all applicable codes and local
code provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
   (I)   The wireless provider shall comply with written design standards that
are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or reasonable stealth,
concealment and aesthetic requirements set forth in §
160.20 of this chapter.
   (J)   Subject to the subsection titled permitted use, and except for
facilities excluded from evaluation for effects on historic properties under 47
C.F.R. § 1.1307(a)(4), the village requires reasonable, technically feasible
and nondiscriminatory design or concealment measures for historic landmarks.
   (K)   Any such design or concealment measures, Including restrictions on a
specific category of poles, may not have the effect of prohibiting any
provider’s technology. Such design and concealment measures shall not be
considered a part of the small wireless facility for purposes of the size
restrictions of a small wireless facility. Any applicant who maintains that the
design standards prohibit its technology may apply for a design standard
variation and shall have the burden of providing legally competent evidence
that the effect of the regulations is to prohibit that provider’s technology.
Variation applications and procedures shall be consistent with §
160.18 of this chapter. The availability of small wireless facility concealment
or design technology in the general marketplace, consistent with the standards
set forth In §
160.20, shall be prima facia evidence that the design and concealment measures
required by this section are commercially reasonable and do not prohibit a
provider’s technology. The provider, however, shall have the right to refute
the prima facia conclusion of reasonableness by clear and convincing evidence.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 160.20 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Small wireless facilities located in the following areas of the
village shall be subject to the design standards as described in this section.
The intent of these design standards is to minimize the negative aesthetic
impact which the village has concluded will occur if these standards were not
imposed. The standards are intended to provide flexibility based upon products
available in the market which satisfy the conditions of these design standards.
Denial of a permit application which village staff determines is inconsistent
with these design standards may be appealed by the applicant to the Village
Board, pursuant to the procedures and standards set forth in §§
160.18 and
160.20 of this chapter. The village’s design standards shall apply in the
following geographic areas or environs (hereinafter “designated areas”):
      (1)   Right-of-way contiguous to the frontage of buildings in the village
business zoning district and redevelopment areas designed under the Tax
Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act;
      (2)   Right-of-way contiguous to the frontage and corner side yards
located in residential zoning districts only containing street lights;
      (3)   Right-of-way contiguous to the frontage of buildings where other
utilities such as electric lines and telephone lines are buried and which
contain only light poles; and
      (4)   The rights-of-way in residential zoning districts where existing
utility poles are located contiguous to the rear yards of homes.
   (B)   Unless granted a variation from the requirements of §§
160.19 and
160.20 of this chapter in accordance with the variation provisions set forth in
§ 160.18 of this chapter, the following standards shall be met by all occupiers
of rights-of-way except franchises in designated areas, including all small
wireless providers, from the effective date of this chapter.
      (1)   All lattice structures are prohibited.
      (2)   No new guy wires shall be placed upon an existing utility pole or
wireless support structure unless an existing utility pole or wireless support
structure has guy wires and the new guy wires are for hardening purposes only.
      (3)   No new utility pole or wireless support structure shall be
constructed in designated areas unless it is a replacement for an existing
utility pole or wireless support structure.
      (4)   All antennas and related equipment constructed on non-decorative
existing utility poles and wireless support structures shall be a color that
will provide the least intrusive visualization as determined by the Zoning
Administrator. The wireless facilities mounted on the utility pole or wireless
support structure shall be of the same color as the utility pole or wireless
support structure.
      (5)   Decorative light poles in designated areas shall be replaced with a
new utility pole or wireless support structure of similar design to the
replaced existing utility pole or wireless support structure and all antennas
shall be hidden within the utility pole or wireless support structure or
concealed to the degree reasonably possible to appear like an original part of
the utility pole or wireless support structure. In all designated areas, wires
serving the wireless facility shall be concealed within or flush mounted to the
utility pole or wireless support structure in an enclosed wire chase.
      (6)   Top mounted antennas shall be flush to the diameter of the top of
the utility pole or wireless support structure. In no event shall the diameter
of the top mounted antenna exceed 15% of the diameter of the utility pole or
wireless support structure.
      (7)   For existing utility poles and wireless support structures in
right-of-ways having frontage and in residential areas, side mounted antennas
and their enclosures shall be flush mounted to the utility pole or wireless
support structure at the level of the antenna attachment.
      (8)   In no circumstances shall antennas be mounted less than 12 feet
above ground level.
      (9)   For streetlight fixtures and traffic control signals, replacement
poles and small wireless facilities shall be roughly equal in size to the
volume of the street lights, luminaires in bases in the area to achieve a
balanced appearance.
      (10)   The decorative base of a decorative street light or luminaire
shall be between 10-25% of the pole height.
      (11)   The length of arms extending from the base shall be no more than
20-25% of the utility pole or wireless support structure’s height.
      (12)   Arms extending from the utility pole or wireless support structure
shall be within 20% of the total utility pole or wireless support structure
height measured from the top of the utility pole or wireless support structure.
      (13)   Street light fixtures shall meet AASHTO structural guidelines for
roadway applications and ANSI requirements for vibrations.
      (14)   Utility pole and wireless support structure height shall be
measured from the ground to the top of the utility pole or wireless support
structure which shall include antennas built into or appended to the utility
pole or wireless support structure.
      (15)   Utility pole and wireless support structure heights shall be
consistent with those as authorized by this chapter.
      (16)   New utility poles and new wireless support structures shall be
located where the shared property line between two residential parcels
intersects a right-of-way whenever possible, unless such placement would result
in an unsafe condition, cluttered appearance, or other violation of this
chapter.
      (17)   New utility poles and new wireless support structures and
replacement utility poles and wireless support structures shall be equal
distance from other utility poles or wireless support structures based upon the
average distance between existing utility poles or wireless support structures
within the designated area.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 160.21 EXCEPTIONS TO APPLICABILITY.
   Nothing in this chapter authorizes a person to collocate small wireless
facilities on:
   (A)   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled by
the village or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
   (B)   property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
   (C)   (1)   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under § 18c-7201 of
the Illinois Vehicle Code (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 18c-7201), Metra Commuter
Rail or any other public commuter rail service, or an electric utility as
defined in § 16-102 of the Public Utilities Act (ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-
102), without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail service, or
electric utility. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to an electric or
gas public utility or such utility’s wireless facilities if the facilities are
being used, developed and maintained consistent with the provisions of
subsection (i) of § 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act (ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5,
§ 16-108.5, subd. (i)).
      (2)   For the purposes of this subsection, “public utility” has the
meaning given to that term in § 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act (ILCS Ch.
220, Act 5, § 3-105). Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to relieve any
person from any requirement (a) to obtain a franchise or an Illinois issued
authorization to offer cable service or video service or (b) to obtain any
required permission to install, place, maintain, or operate communications
facilities, other than small wireless facilities subject to this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 160.22 PRE-EXISTING AGREEMENTS.
   Existing agreements between the village and wireless providers that relate
to the collocation of small wireless facilities in the right-of-way, including
the collocation of small wireless facilities on village utility poles, that are
in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for all small wireless facilities
collocated on the village’s utility poles pursuant to applications submitted to
the village before June 1, 2018, subject to applicable termination provisions
contained therein. Agreements entered into after June 1, 2018, shall comply
with this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 160.23 ANNUAL RECURRING RATE.
   A wireless provider shall pay to the village an annual recurring rate to
collocate a small wireless facility on a village utility pole located in a
right-of-way that equals (i) $200 per year, per pole or (ii) the actual, direct
and reasonable costs related to the wireless provider’s use of space on the
village utility pole. If the village has not billed the wireless provider the
actual, direct and reasonable costs, the fee shall be $200 payable on the first
day after the first annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice
of intent to collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter. Late
payments shall carry simple interest of 6% per month, non-prorated. Rates for
collocation on village utility poles located outside of a right-of-way are not
subject to these limitations.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 160.24 AERIAL FACILITIES.
   For village utility poles that support aerial facilities used to provide
communications services or electric service, wireless providers shall comply
with the process for make ready work under 47 U.S.C. § 224 and its implementing
regulations.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 160.25 ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous period
of 12 months shall be considered abandoned. The owner of the facility shall
remove the small wireless facility within 90 days after receipt of written
notice from the village notifying the wireless provider of the abandonment. It
shall be the duty of the provider to notify the village in writing when a small
wireless facility has not been operating for a continuous period of 12 months.
The written notification shall include an explanation of why the operation was
halted.
   (B)   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, by the village to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within 90 days
of such notice, the village may remove or cause the removal of such facility
pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for authority utility
poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by
other law for removal and cost recovery.
   (C)   A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the village if it
sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the
village.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 160.26 DISPUTE RESOLUTION.
   After exhaustion of the administrative remedies as provided in this chapter,
the Circuit Court of Grundy County, Illinois shall have exclusive jurisdiction
to resolve all disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment
Act and this chapter. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for
collocation of small wireless facilities on village utility poles within the
right-of-way, the village shall allow the collocating person to collocate on
its utility poles at annual rates of no more than $200 per year per village
utility pole, with rates to be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 160.27 INDEMNIFICATION.
   A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the village, its elected and
appointed officials, employees, agents and successors, harmless against any and
all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting from or
arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the village
improvements or right-of-way associated with such improvements by the wireless
provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the rights and
privileges granted under this chapter and the Act. A wireless provider has no
obligation to indemnify or hold harmless against any liabilities and losses as
may be due to or caused by the sole negligence of the village or its employees
or agents. A wireless provider shall further waive any claims that they may
have against the village with respect to actual, consequential, incidental, or
special damages, however caused, based on the theory of liability.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 160.28 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Required coverage and limits. Each wireless provider occupying the
right-of-way with a small wireless facility shall secure and maintain the
liability insurance policies specified by the village insuring it as a named
insured and naming the village and its elected and appointed officers, agents,
contractors, and employees as additional non-contributory insureds on the
policies. The wireless provider shall provide the village with any and all
information necessary to establish coverage including any definitions,
limitations or endorsements related to additional insureds. The wireless
provider’s insurance shall be primary, and any village policies of insurance
shall be deemed non-contributory.
   (B)   Copies required. Each wireless provider shall provide certification of
insurance reflecting the requirements of this section to the village within ten
days following receipt of a written request from the village.
   (C)   Maintenance and renewal of required coverage.
      (1)   The insurance policies required by this section shall contain the
following endorsement “It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may
not be canceled nor the intention not to renew by stated until 30 days after
receipt by the village, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt
requested, of a written notice addressed to the Village Clerk of such intent to
cancel or not to renew.”
      (2)   Within ten days after receipt of the village of said notice, and in
no event later than ten days prior to said cancellation, the wireless provider
shall obtain and furnish to the village evidence of replacement insurance
policies meeting the requirements of this section. In the event that the
wireless provider fails to obtain or produce evidence of said replacement
insurance, any permits issued pursuant to this chapter shall, without further
notice, be null and void.
   (D)   Self-insurance. A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion
of the insurance coverage and limit requirements required by subsection a. of
this section. A wireless provider that self-insures is not required, to the
extent of such self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of
additional insureds under division (A) of this section or the requirements of
Divisions (B), (C), and (D) of this section. A wireless provider that elects to
self-insure shall provide to the village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its
financial ability to self-insure the insurance coverage and limit required
under subsection a. of this section, such as evidence that the wireless
provider is a “private self-insurer” under the Illinois Workers’ Compensation
Act. Self-insurance shall be primary, and any village policies of insurance
shall be deemed non-contributory.
   (E)   Effect of insurance and self-insurance on wireless provider’s
liability. The legal liability of the wireless provider to the village and any
person for any matters that are the subject of insurance policies or self-
insurance required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance
policies, self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts therefor.
   (F)   A wireless provider shall make certain that all supplements are
covered by the insurance required by this section.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 160.29 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP, OWNER’S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS.
   (A)   Notification of change. A wireless provider shall notify the Village
no less than 30 days prior to the transfer of ownership of any small wireless
facility in the right-of-way or change in identity of the entity of the
operator. The new wireless provider shall have all the obligations and
privileges enjoyed by the former wireless provider under the permit, if any,
and all applicable laws, ordinances, rules and regulations, including this
chapter, with respect to the work and small wireless facilities in the right-
of-way.
   (B)   Transfer of ownership. No transfer of ownership for small wireless
facilities requiring a license agreement or supplement shall become effective
until the purchaser enters into a license agreement with the village.
   (C)   Amended permit. A wireless provider shall request that any current
permit be amended to show current ownership. If the wireless provider fails to
have a new or amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be
presumed to have accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions
of the permit if the new owner uses the small wireless facility or allows it to
remain on the village’s right-of-way.
   (D)   Insurance. Insurance as required herein shall be changed or replaced
to reflect the name of the new wireless provider no less than 30 days after a
change of ownership, identify or legal status.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 7-24-2018)
§ 160.30  EFFECT OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Authority granted; no property right or other interest created. A
permit from the village licenses a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with village ordinances to the extent of the village’s
property rights therein. The permit shall not create a property right or grant
authority to the wireless provider to impinge upon the rights of other who may
have an interest in the right-of-ways, including, but not limited to, such
rights as may exist by virtue of the Illinois Highway Code (ILCS Ch. 605, Act
5, § 9-113).
   (B)   Compliance with all laws required. The issuance of a permit by the
village does not relieve the wireless provider from complying with other
requirements of the Village Code, and all other applicable statutes, laws,
ordinances, rules and regulations.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 7-24-2018)   
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   BONDS
      
IV.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
V.   VACATIONS
      
VI.   STREET NAME CHANGES
      
VII.   APPROPRIATIONS
      
VIII.   TAXES
      
IX.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
X.   REAL ESTATE
      
XI.   DEDICATIONS
      
XII.   VARIANCES AND PLAT APPROVALS
      
XIII.   DISCONNECTIONS
      
XIV.   APPOINTMENTS AND DESIGNATIONS
      
XV.   ENTERPRISE ZONES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        9-11-1950   General telephone business; Illinois Bell Telephone
                     Company
-        11-1-1954   Electric franchise; Commonwealth Edison Company
-        1-4-1960    Gas franchise; Northen Illinois Gas Company
-        4-2-1978    Cable TV franchise; Community Cable TV
-        4-14-1981   Cable TV franchise assignment; Illinois Community
                     Cablevision
1992-04  4-29-1992   Electric franchise; Commonwealth Edison Company
1993-05  6-8-1993    Cable TV franchise; Devcom Systems, LLC
2001-01  1-23-2001   Cable TV franchise assignment; Western Cable
                     Communications Inc.
2001-6   6-12-2001   Cable TV franchise; AT&T Broadband
2004-03  - -2003     Cable TV franchise; Western Cable Communications, Inc.
2017-18  9-26-2017   Cable TV franchise; Comcast of California/Colorado/
                     Illinois/Michigan, LP
                    
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.   Date   Description
No.    Passed
Res. - 10-3-  Geographic limits after annexation
       1949
-      4-28-  Annexation of territory
       1972
-      5-12-  Annexation of territory
       1972
-      8-11-  Annexation of territory
       1972
-      12-9-  Annexation of territory
       1976
-      4-11-  Annexation of territory
       1977
1989-6 8-29-  Annexation of territory
       1989
1989-7 8-29-  Annexation of territory
       1989
1989-8 8-29-  Annexation of territory
       1989
1989-9 8-29-  Annexation of territory
       1989
1989-  10-24- Annexation of territory
10     1989
1990-1 1-9-   Annexation of territory
       1990
1991-  6-25-  Annexation of territory
05     1991
1991-  7-9-   Annexation agreement
06     1991
1991-  7-9-   Annexation of territory
07     1991
1992-  4-14-  Annexation of territory
02     1992
1992-  4-28-  Annexation of territory
03     1992
1992-  11-24- Annexation of territory
07     1992
1993-  3-9-   Annexation of territory
02     1993
1993-  3-9-   Annexation of territory
03     1993
1993-  9-28-  Annexation agreement
11     1993
1993-  9-28-  Annexation of territory
12     1993
1993-  11-23- Annexation agreement
14     1993
1993-  11-23- Annexation of territory
15     1993
1993-  12-1-  Annexation agreement
17     1993
1993-  12-1-  Annexation of territory
18     1993
1994-  7-26-  Annexation agreement
12     1994
1994-  7-26-  Annexation of territory
13     1994
1994-  12-13- Annexation of territory (Girot)
13     1995
1994-  - -    Annexation agreement
17
1994-  9-13-  Annexation of territory
18     1994
1994-  10-25- Annexation agreement
23     1994
1994-  10-25- Annexation of territory
24     1994
1994-  10-25- Annexation agreement
26     1994
1994-  10-25- Annexation of territory
27     1994
1994-  10-25- Annexation agreement
29     1994
1994-  10-25- Annexation of territory
30     1994
1994-  11-22- Annexation of territory
33     1994
1994-  11-27- Annexation of territory
35     1994
1994-  12-13- Annexation agreement
36     1995
1994-  12-13- Annexation agreement (Girot)
36     1996
1995-  12-13- Annexation agreement
10     1995
1997-  2-11-  Annexation of territory
01     1997
1998-  3-24-  Annexation of territory
02     1998
M2000- 1-11-  Annexation agreement
1      2000
M2000- 1-25-  Annexation of territory
4      2000
M2000- 1-11-  Annexation agreement
5      2000
2001-8 10-23- Annexation of territory
       2001
2002-  9-24-  Annexation of territory
07     2002
2003-  3-11-  Annexation of territory
02     2003
2004-  10-12- Annexation of territory
18B    2004
2006-  2-28-  Annexation of Diamond Springs Subdivision
07     2006
2006-  2-28-  Annexation of Diamond Springs Subdivision
08     2006
2006-  2-28-  Annexation of Country Meadows Subdivision – Felix Development Corporation,
10     2006   LLC
2007-  7-10-  Annexation of Bianchetta parcel
13     2007
             
 
TABLE III: BONDS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
-         2-22-1958   Waterworks bonds
Res. -    1-3-1966    Abatement of taxes in connection with bonds
Res. -    - -1972     Water revenue bonds
1991-19   11-4-1991   Pledging revenues to or on behalf of the Illinois Rural
                      Bond Bank
1998-10   12-15-1998  Abatement of taxes in connection with bonds
M-2000-6  3-28-2000   Abatement of taxes in connection with bonds
M-2001-1  2-27-2001   Abatement of taxes in connection with bonds
2001-9    11-27-2001  Abatement of taxes in connection with bonds
2002-09   11-26-2002  Abatement of taxes in connection with bonds
2003-08   11-25-2003  Abatement of taxes in connection with bonds
2004-17-B 10-12-2004  Waterworks and sewerage revenue bonds
2004-22   12- -2004   Abatement of taxes in connection with bonds
2005-16   12-13-2005  Abatement of taxes in connection with bonds
2006-25   12-12-2006  Abatement of taxes in connection with bonds
2007-02   2-13-2007   Waterworks and sewerage revenue bonds
2007-16   7-30-2007   Waterworks and sewerage revenue bonds
2007-28   12-11-2007  Abatement of taxes in connection with bonds
2008-15   12-9-2008   Abatement of certain taxes levied in connection with the
                      issue of $505,000 general obligation refunding bonds
2009-18   12-8-2009   Abatement of taxes in connection with bonds (sewerage
                      revenue alternate revenue source) series 1998
2010-15   11-3-2010   Waterworks system revenue bonds
2010-16   10-26-2010  General obligation bonds for financing capital
                      improvements to the waterworks system
2010-18   12-14-2010  General obligation bonds
2010-20   12-14-2010  Abatement of certain taxes levied in connection with the
                      issue of $505,000 general obligation refunding bonds
2011-02   2-8-2011    Abatement of certain taxes levied in connection with the
                      issue of $1,800,000 taxable general obligation bonds
2011-15   12-13-2011  Abatement of certain taxes levied in connection with the
                      issue of $1,800,000 taxable general obligation bonds
2012-40   12-11-2012  Abatement of certain taxes levied in connection with the
                      issue of $1,800,000 taxable general obligation bonds
2013-12   11-26-2013  Abatement of certain taxes levied in connection with the
                      issue of $1,800,000 taxable general obligation bonds
2014-14   12-9-2014   Abatement of certain taxes levied in connection with the
                      issue of $1,800,000 taxable general obligation bonds
2015-17   11-24-2015  Abatement of certain taxes levied in connection with the
                      issue of $1,800,000 taxable general obligation bonds
2016-13   12-13-2016  Abatement of certain taxes levied in connection with the
                      issue of $1,800,000 taxable general obligation bonds
2017-22   12-12-2017  Abatement of certain taxes levied in connection with the
                      issue of $1,800,000 taxable general obligation bonds
2018-14   12-11-2018  Abatement of certain taxes levied in connection with the
                      issue of $1,800,000 taxable general obligation bonds
2019-27   12-10-2019  Abatement of certain taxes levied in connection with the
                      issue of $1,800,000 taxable general obligation bonds
2020-04   2-25-2020   Sewerage system revenue bonds
2020-05   2-25-2020   General obligation refunding bonds
2020-06   2-25-2020   Waterworks system revenue bonds
2020-07   2-25-2020   General obligation refunding bonds
2020-16   4-14-2020   General obligation refunding bonds
2020-17   4-14-2020   General obligation refunding bonds
2020-27   12-8-2020   Abating taxes levied with the issue of general obligation
                      refunding bonds Series 2020A
2020-28   12-8-2020   Abating taxes levied in connection with the issue of
                      general obligation refunding bonds Series 2020B
2022-24   12-13-2022  Avating taxes levied in connection with the issue of
                      general obligation refunding bonds Series 2020A
2022-25   12-13-2022  Abating taxes levied in connection with the issue of
                      general obligation refunding bonds Series 2020B
2023-09   12-12-2023  Abatement of taxes in connection with bonds (alternate
                      revenue source) series 2020A
2023-10   12-12-2023  Abatement of taxes in connection with bonds (alternate
                      revenue source) series 2020B
2024-21   12-10-2024  Abatement of taxes in connection with bonds (alternate
                      revenue source) series 2020A
2024-22   12-10-2024  Abatement of taxes in connection with bonds (alternate
                      revenue source) series 2020B
                     
 
TABLE IV: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        2-6-1979    Rezoning property
1991-08  7-9-1991    Rezone land; Route 113
1992-09  12-8-1992   Rezone land; Berta Road and Route 113
1993-13  9-28-1993   Rezone land; Route 113
1993-16  11-23-1993  Rezone land; Route 113
1993-23  12-1-1993   Rezone land; Route 113
1994-03  5-24-1994   Adoption of amended Zoning Map
1994-14  7-26-1994   Rezone land; Route 113
1994-19  9-13-1994   Rezone land
1994-21  10-25-1994  Rezone land
1994-22  10-25-1994  Rezone land; Route 113
1994-25  10-25-1994  Rezone land; Route 113
1994-28  10-25-1994  Rezone land; Route 113
1994-31  10-25-1994  Rezone land; Route 113
1994-34  12-27-1994  Rezone land; Route 113
1997-03  5-13-1997   Rezone land
99-2     7-13-1999   Rezone land; Berta Road
M2000-3  1-25-2000   Rezone land; Route 113
M2000-7  3-28-2000   Rezone land
2004-01  1-13-2004   Rezone land; Route 113
2005-08  6-14-2005   Rezone land; Route 113
2005-14  10-25-2005  Rezone land; Route 113 and South Will Road
2006-09  2-28-2006   Rezone land; Diamond Springs Subdivision
2007-18  8-28-2007   Granting map amendment: Bianchetta parcel
                     Granting a zoning map amendment from R1-One Family
2011-04  4-12-2011   Residence District to A1-Agricultural District (Case No.
                     PZ-01-2011 Patterson/Wren)
                     Granting a zoning map amendment from B-1 Retail Business
2011-10  9-27-2011   District to B-3 Service Business District for 1100 East
                     Division Street (Case No. PZ-02-2011
                     J & R Service Center)
                     Granting a zoning map amendment from R-1 One Family
                     Residence District to B-1 Retail Business District for
2012-08  4-24-2012   1135 East Division Street (Case No. PZ-02-2012
                     Lenzie Realty Holdings, LLC, and Gendall Partners Coal
                     City, LLC)
                     Granting a zoning map amendment from R-4 General Residence
2012-18  6-26-2012   District to I-1 Limited Industrial District for east side
                     of Will Road, between Illinois Route 113 and Spring Road
                     (Case No. PZ-04-2012 Wozniak)
                     Granting a zoning map amendment from R-4 General Residence
2012-19  6-26-2012   District to I-1 Limited Industrial District for east side
                     of Will Road, between Illinois Route 113 and Spring Road
                     (Case No. PZ-05-2012 Frey)
                     Granting a zoning map amendment from R-1 One Family
2012-20  6-26-2012   Residence District to I-1 Limited Industrial District for
                     east side of Will Road, between Illinois Route 113 and
                     Spring Road (Case No. PZ-06-2012 Vercelote)
                     Granting a zoning map amendment from R-1 One Family
2012-21  6-26-2012   Residence District to I-1 Limited Industrial District for
                     east side of Will Road, between Illinois Route 113 and
                     Spring Road (Case No. PZ-07-2012 Phillips)
                     Granting a zoning map amendment from R-1 One Family
2012-22  6-26-2012   Residence District to I-1 Limited Industrial District for
                     east side of Will Road, between Illinois Route 113 and
                     Spring Road (Case No. PZ-08-2012 Goodwin)
                     Granting a zoning map amendment from R-4 General Residence
2012-23  6-26-2012   District to I-1 Limited Industrial District for east side
                     of Will Road, between Illinois Route 113 and Spring Road
                     (Case No. PZ-09-2012 Honrud)
                     Granting a zoning map amendment from B-1 Retail Business
2014-01  5-13-2014   District to B-3 Service Business District (Case No. PZ-01-
                     2014 Diamond Center Subdivision)
                     Granting a zoning map amendment from B-1 Retail Business
2015-15  9-22-2015   District to B-3 Service Business District (Case No. PZ-04-
                     2015 Murphy)
                     Granting a zoning map amendment from B-2 Retail and
2016-01  1-12-2016   Service Business District to B-1 Retail Business District
                     (Case No. PZ-05-2015 Broadway Dance)
                     Granting a zoning map amendment from R-4 General Residence
2016-02  1-12-2016   District to B-3 Service Business District (Case No. PZ-06-
                     2015 Sunshine Garden Center)
                     Granting a zoning map amendment from R-1 1-Family
2016-03  1-12-2016   Residence District to I-1 Limited Industrial District
                     (Case No. PZ-07-2015 Coughlin)
2016-04  1-12-2016   Amending the Village of Diamond Zoning Ordinance
                     Granting a zoning map amendment to the B-3 Service
2019-10  3-26-2019   Business District and granting certain variances from the
                     zoning code (Case No. PZ-02-2019 Diamond Indoor Trap
                     Range)
2020-10  3-10-2020   Granting a zoning map amendment to the B-3 Service
                     Business District (Case No. PX-01-2020 Domino’s-Diamond)
                     Granting a zoning map amendment to the B-3 Service
2021-12  7-13-2021   Business District (Case No. PZ-01-2021 Midland States
                     Bank)
                    
 
TABLE V: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
-     7-2-   Vacating a public street and portion of public alley
      1956
-     6-5-   Vacating parts of public street
      1958
-     - -    Vacating part of Berta Street
      1963
-     12-1-  Vacating a public alley
      1968
-     1-5-   Vacating a public alley
      1969
-     2-6-   Vacating part of Patmore Street
      1979
-     2-6-   Vacating a public alley
      1979
1997- 5-13-  Vacating part of Dewey Street
04    1997
M-    1-25-  Vacating a portion of the east/west alley in Block 19, Fordyce’s
2000- 2000   Addition
2
2004- 3-9-   Vacating a public alley in Fordyce’s Addition
06    2004
2014- 5-13-  Vacating a public right-of-way of the east/west alley between Will
02    2014   Road and S. Calkey Street
2019- 3-26-  Vacating a public right-of-way of the east/west alley between Daly
09    2019   Street and Tinman Street, and Patmore Street between Tinman Street
             and Daly Street
2020- 3-10-  Vacating a public right-of-way of the east-west alley in Block 19
09    2020   in Fordyce’s Addition
2021- 6-22-  Vacating an unimproved public right-of-way on 6th Street, North of
10    2021   Illinois Route 113
            
 
TABLE VI: STREET NAME CHANGES
 
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
Res. 90-1 1- -1990    Declaring support to change Reed Road to Tully Monster
                      Road
2005-09   7-12-2005   Changing name of Berta Street to Calkey Street
 
TABLE VII: APPROPRIATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
-            7-6-1954    Fiscal 1954-1955
-            7-11-1955   Fiscal 1955-1956
-            6-4-1956    Fiscal 1956-1957
-            7-1-1957    Fiscal 1957-1958
-            7-7-1958    Fiscal 1958-1959
-            7-6-1959    Fiscal 1959-1960
-            7-6-1982    Fiscal 1982-1983
-            5-1-1984    Fiscal 1984-1985
-            5-1-1987    Fiscal 1987-1988
-            6-21-1988   Fiscal 1988-1989
1989-4       7-25-1989   Fiscal 1989-1990
1990-11      8-14-1990   Fiscal 1990-1991
1991-10      7-30-1991   Fiscal 1991-1992
1991-13      8-27-1991   Supplemental appropriations
1992-02      9- -1992    Supplemental appropriations
1992-05      7-30-1992   Fiscal 1992-1993
1993-07      7-30-1993   Fiscal 1993-1994
1993-08      9-14-1993   Supplemental appropriations
1994-08      7-12-1994   Fiscal 1994-1995
1994-32      10-25-1994  Supplemental appropriations
1995-03      7-25-1995   Fiscal 1995-1996
1996-01      7-23-1996   Fiscal 1996-1997
99-1         7-27-1999   Fiscal 1999-2000
-2000-1      6-27-2000   Fiscal 2000-2001
2001-07      8-14-2001   Fiscal 2001-2002
2002-03      6-25-2002   Fiscal 2002-2003
2002-04      5-28-2002   Fiscal 2002-2003
2003-05      6-24-2003   Fiscal 2003-2004
2004-16A     7-8-2004    Fiscal 2004-2005
2005-10      7-26-2005   Fiscal 2005-2006
2006-18      7-11-2006   Fiscal 2006-2007
2007-14      7-10-2007   Fiscal 2007-2008
2009-10      6-23-2009   Fiscal 2009-2010
2010-07      6-22-2010   Fiscal 2010-2011
2011-06      6-28-2011   Fiscal 2011-2012
2012-27      7-10-2012   Fiscal 2012-2013
2013-05      6-11-2013   Fiscal 2013-2014
2014-06      5-27-2014   Fiscal 2014-2015
2015-3       5-26-2015   Fiscal 2015-2016
2016-07      5-24-2016   Supplemental appropriations
2017-08      5-23-2017   Fiscal 2017-2018
2018-11      6-26-2018   Fiscal 2018-2019
2019-15      6-11-2019   Fiscal 2019-2020
2020-19      5-12-2020   Fiscal 2020-2021
2021-06      4-27-2021   Fiscal year 2021-2022
2022-05      4-12-2022   Fiscal year 2022-2023
2023-03      4-25-2023   Fiscal year 2023-2024
Res. 2024-01 1-23-2024   Supplemental appropriations
2024-08      4-23-2024   Fiscal year 2024-2025
                        
 
TABLE VIII: TAXES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        6-1-1953    Maximum permissible tax rate limit
-        8-6-1956    Tax levy; fiscal 1956-1957
-        8-4-1958    Tax levy; fiscal 1958-1959
-        - -1959     Tax levy; fiscal 1959-1960
-        9-3-1961    Tax levy; fiscal 1961-1962
-        8-28-1984   Tax levy; fiscal 1984-1985
-        - -1988     Tax levy; fiscal 1988-1989
1990-11  - -1989     Levying and assessing of taxes
1991-24  12-19-1991  Levying and assessing of taxes
1992-08  12-8-1992   Levying and assessing of taxes
1993-21  12-14-1993  Levying and assessing of taxes
1994-37  12-13-1994  Levying and assessing of taxes
-        12-18-1996  Levying and assessing of taxes
1998-09  12-15-1998  Levying and assessing of taxes
99-2     12-20-1999  Levying and assessing of taxes
-2000-01 12-12-2000  Levying and assessing of taxes
2001-8   11-27-2001  Levying and assessing of taxes
2002-08  11-26-2002  Levying and assessing of taxes
2003-09  12-9-2003   Levying and assessing of taxes
2004-23  - -2004     Levying and assessing of taxes
2005-15  12-13-2005  Levying and assessing of taxes
2006-24  12-12-2006  Levying and assessing of taxes
2007-27  12-11-2007  Levying and assessing of taxes
2008-14  12-9-2008   Levying and assessing of taxes
2009-17  12-8-2009   Levying and assessing of taxes for Fiscal Year ending 4-
                     30-2010.
2010-19  12-14-2010  Levying and assessing taxes for fiscal year ending April
                     30, 2011
2011-16  12-13-2011  Levying and assessing taxes for fiscal year ending April
                     30, 2012
2012-39  12-11-2012  Levying and assessing taxes for fiscal year ending April
                     30, 2013
2013-02  1-22-2013   Amending Ordinance 2012-39 levying and assessing taxes for
                     fiscal year ending April 30, 2013
2013-11  11-26-2013  Levying and assessing taxes for fiscal year ending April
                     30, 2014
2014-13  12-9-2014   Levying and assessing taxes for fiscal year ending April
                     30, 2015
2015-18  11-24-2015  Levying and assessing taxes for fiscal year ending April
                     30, 2016
2016-14  12-13-2016  Levying and assessing taxes for fiscal year ending April
                     30, 2017
2017-23  12-12-2017  Levying and assessing taxes for fiscal year ending April
                     30, 2018
2018-15  12-11-2018  Levying and assessing taxes for fiscal year ending April
                     30, 2019
2019-28  12-10-2019  Levying and assessing taxes for fiscal year ending April
                     30, 2020
2020-29  12-8-2020   Levying and assessing taxes for fiscal year ending April
                     30, 2021
2022-26  12-13-2022  Levying and assessing taxes for fiscal year ending April
                     30, 2023
2023-11  12-12-2023  Levying and assessing taxes for fiscal year ending April
                     30, 2024
2024-23  12-10-2024  Levying and assessing taxes for fiscal year ending April
                     30, 2025
                    
 
TABLE IX: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
-     3-24-  Fire protection tax to be put to vote
      1953
Res.  6-1-   Fire protection tax approved
-     1953
-     9-18-  Authorization to enter into interlocal agreements
      1953
-     10-4-  Authorization to enter into interlocal agreement with Coal City for fire
      1953   protection
Res.  11-2-  Approving fire protection agreement
-     1953
1991- 5-7-   Garbage and refuse collection and disposal contract
04    1991
1991- 7-25-  Purchase of wastewater collection and treatment facilities
12    1991
-     9-10-  Purchase agreement with Parkway Bank and Trust Company
      1991
1991- 11-4-  Local governmental securities purchase agreement
20    1991
Res.  11-24-
1992- 1992   Grant agreement with Environmental Protection Agency
1
1993- 9-14-  Professional legal services agreement
09    1993
2005- 2-22-  Intergovernmental agreement and land cash ordinance
01    2005
2005- 10-25- Economic incentive agreement with TBS-Diamond, LLC and Jewel Foods Stores,
13    2005   Inc.
2006- 8-28-  Development agreement with Big Timber Holdings, Inc. to develop Reilly’s
21    2006   Corner
2007- 3-27-  Loan agreement with Illinois Environmental Protection Agency
06    2007
2007- 4-24-  Intergovernmental cooperation agreement with Will County for law
08    2007   enforcement services
2007- 5-8-   Intergovernmental cooperation agreement for roadway improvements
10    2007
2007- 9-11-  Loan agreements with Illinois Environmental Protection Agency
22    2007
2007- 11-30- Development agreement with Morris Community Credit Union
24    2007
2008- 3- -   Development agreement: Berta Road
04    2008
2008- 3-25-  Development agreement : Hallahan Professional Center
05    2008
2009- 11-24- Authorizing first amendment to development agreement (Farmstone Unit II)
15    2009
2009- 11-24- Authorizing first amendment to development agreement (Berta Road)
16    2009
2010- 2-9-   Supplementing and amending Ordinance 2007-22, loan agreements with
01    2010   Illinois Environmental Protection Agency
2010- 2-9-   Intergovernmental cooperation agreement with Village of Carbon Hill for
02    2010   sharing construction costs and engineering services related to
             improvements to Coal City Community Unit School District #1
2010- 5-25-  Illinois Public Works Mutual Aid Network Agreement
06    2010
2011- 11-8-  Recapture agreement with Scaggs Development Corp. and Gendell Partners
13    2011   Coal City, LLC, to construct certain road improvements to Berta Road
2012- 5-22-  Development agreement with Diamond Point Commercial, LLC, to develop
12    2012   Diamond Point Commercial Center at the northeast corner of Will Road and
             Division Street
2014- 5-13-  Development agreement with 113 Land, LLC
03    2014
2015- 7-14-  Intergovernmental agreement with the Village of Coal City for provision of
09    2015   temporary disaster/emergency debris removal services to Coal City
2017- 7-11-  Intergovernmental agreement with the Illinois Municipal League Risk
10    2017   Management Association for membership for a period of 1 year and providing
             risk coverage
2017- 8-22-  Agreement for water treatment plant waste disposal with Fox Lawn
13    2017   Homeowners Water Association
2017- 9-12-  First amendment to development agreement with 113 Land, LLC
14    2017
2017- 9-12-  Intergovernmental agreement forming Kankakee River Valley Water Planning
16    2017   Area Alliance
2018- 5-8-   Intergovernmental cooperation agreement with the State of Illinois for
06    2018   Local Government Health Plan
2018- 10-23- Authorizing the execution of a development agreement with Morris Hospital
13    2018   (Morris Hospital Diamond-Coal City Campus)
2019- 3-26-  Authorizing the execution of a development agreement with Leon S. Baine,
08    2019   trustee of the Christy J. Baine revocable trust (Diamond indoor trap
             range)
2019- 6-25-  Authorizing the execution of a first amendment to development agreement
17    2019   (Diamond Indoor Trap Range)
Res.  8-13-  Authorizing the execution of an agreement for public watermain easement
2019- 2019   (Mikan)
08
2019- 10-22- Authorizing the execution of an inter-governmental cooperation agreement
20    2019   with Grundy County for property maintenance inspection services
2019- 11-26- Authorizing the execution of a development agreement (Diamond Gas and
23    2019   Wash)
2019- 11-26- Authorizing the execution of an inter-governmental cooperation agreement
24    2019   with Grundy County for animal control services
2020- 3-10-  Authorizing the execution of a development agreement (Domino’s-Diamond)
08    2020
2020- 3-10-  Authorizing the execution of a license agreement (Domino’s- Diamond)
13    2020
2020- 4-14-  Authorizing the execution of a first amendment to the refuse, recycling
14    2020   and yard waste collection and disposal contract
2020- 4-28-  Authorizing the execution of an inter-governmental cooperation agreement
18    2020   with Grundy County for location of an electric plate reader
2020- 8-25-  Authorizing the execution and delivery of the Local CURE Program
23    2020   certification
2020- 10-27- Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental cooperation agreement
25    2020   with Grundy County for animal control services
Res.  12-22- Authorizing the execution of a community development and commitment
2020- 2020   agreement
10
2020- 12-8-  Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental cooperation agreement
30    2020   with Grundy County for commercial and industrial plan review and
             inspection services
Res.  2-9-   Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental cooperation agreement
2021- 2021   between the village and the County of Grundy
01
Res.  2-9-   Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental cooperation agreement
2021- 2021   between the village and the County of Will
02
2021- 7-13-  Authorizing the execution of a development agreement (Midland States Bank)
11    2021
Res.  1-11-  Authorizing the execution of an understanding of cooperation agreement
2022- 2022   with Surf Air Wireless, LLC
02
Res.  1-11-  Authorizing the execution of a license and right of way use agreement for
2022- 2022   broadband internet with Surf Air Wireless, LLC
03
2022- 4-26-  Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental cooperation agreement
06    2022   for law enforcement services with the County of Grundy and the Sheriff of
             Grundy County
2022- 10-25- Authorizing a loan agreement between the village and the Illinois
14    2022   Environmental Protection Agency from the Public Water Supply Loan Program
             (Water Meter Replacement Project)
2022- 11-9-  Authorizing the execution of a development agreement (Jewel/Osco Shopping
15    2022   Center)
2022- 11-9-  Authorizing the execution of a redevelopment and financing agreement
17    2022   (Jewel/Osco Shopping Center)
2022- 11-9-  Authorizing the execution of an economic incentive agreement (Jewel/Osco
18    2022   Shopping Center)
2022- 11-9-  Authorizing the execution of a Illinois Route 113 - Will Road improvement
19    2022   termination of participation agreement (Jewel Food Stores, Inc.)
2022- 11-9-  Authorizing the execution of a Illinois Route 113 - Will Road improvement
20    2022   termination of participation agreement (TBS-Diamond, LLC)
2022- 11-9-  Authorizing execution of an intergovernmental cooperation agreement with
21    2022   Grundy County for animal control services
Res.  11-22- Authorizing the execution of a community development and commitment
2022- 2022   agreements
12
Res.  2-27-  Authorizing participation as a member in the Illinois Emergency Management
2024- 2024   Mutual Aid System Response pursuant to an intergovernmental service
02           agreement
2024- 3-12-  Authorizing the execution of a license agreement (Diamond Jack’s
04    2024   Redevelopment)
2024- 9-24-  Authorizing the execution of a development agreement (House Finch Solar,
13    2024   LLC)
            
 
TABLE X: REAL ESTATE
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        - -1962     Lease of real estate
-        7-7-1963    Lease of real estate
1992-01  3-3-1992    Condemnation of certain real estate
1993-04  3-23-1993   Lease of real estate
2008-03  2-12-2008   Accepting public improvements in Country Meadows
                     Subdivision Phase II
2008-12  9-9-2008    Accepting public improvements in Diamond Ridge Subdivision
2010-09  6-22-2010   Accepting public improvements in Country Meadows
                     Subdivision Phase IV
2011-07  8-9-2011    Accepting public improvements in Farmstone Subdivision
                     Phase I and II
2017-01  2-14-2017   Accepting public improvements in Diamond Center
                     Subdivision Phase I
2017-04  3-14-2017   Accepting public improvements in Sterling Estates Unit No.
                     3A
2020-22  7-28-2020   Accepting public improvements of Diamond Indoor Trap Range
2022-01  1-11-2022   Accepting certain public improvements Morris Hospital
                     Diamond-Coal City campus
2022-07  6-14-2022   Accepting certain public improvements MBR Management
                     subdivision
2022-09  8-23-2022   Accepting certain public improvements Diamond Gas and Wash
2024-05  3-26-2024   Accepting certain public improvements Midland States Bank
                    
 
TABLE XI: DEDICATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Res. -   9-3-1967    Accepting dedication of land for public alley
-        6-28-1997   Dedication of land (Rt. 113) for public street
2006-23  11-14-2006  Dedication of fire station sites
 
TABLE XII: VARIANCES AND PLAT APPROVALS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date       Description
         Passed
-        - -        Approving and accepting the plat of Berta and Enrietta’s
                    Subdivision
-        8-17-1959  Approving and accepting the plat of Berta and Enrietta’s
                    Subdivision
1994-05  5-24-1994  Granting a waiver and variance for the Rick Scorby
                    Subdivision
1994-06  5-24-1994  Granting variances for the Bob Walsh Property
Res. R-  3-28-2000  Conditionally approving the preliminary plat of the
2000-4              Country Meadows Senior Housing Development
2006-15  6-27-2006  Authorizing variance for Other Bar and Banquet Hall
Res.     6-27-2006  Approving preliminary and final plats of subdivision for
2006-16             DeGrush Property
2006-17  6-27-2006  Authorizing variance for Hanson Property - 2090 Clark
                    Street
2007-25  11-30-2007 Approving preliminary plat of subdivision of Morris Credit
                    Union
2007-26  11-30-2007 Approving final plat of subdivision and site plan of
                    Morris Credit Union
2010-08  6-22-2010  Granting variance to permit more than 35% lot coverage and
                    more than 40% rear yard coverage - 1515 E. Clark Street
2011-04  4-12-2011  Approving a variance from minimum lot width requirement
                    (Case No. PZ-01-2011 Patterson/Wren)
                    Approving variance from minimum setback requirements at
2012-08  4-24-2012  1135 East Division Street (Case No. PZ-02-2012
                    Lenzie Realty Holdings, LLC, and Gendall Partners Coal
                    City, LLC)
2012-09  4-24-2012  Granting a variance to permit more than 35% lot coverage
                    at 715 Laura Lane (Case No. PZ-01-2012 Zingre)
2012-11  5-22-2012  Approving preliminary plat of subdivision for Diamond
                    Point Commercial Center
2012-13  5-22-2012  Approving final plat of subdivision for Diamond Point
                    Commercial Center
2012-35  9-25-2012  Approving final plat of subdivision for Berta Crossing
                    Subdivision
2012-36  9-25-2012  Approving final plat of Supervalu Resubdivision
                    Approving variance from exterior construction standards
2012-38  11-5-2012  for commercial structures (Case No. PZ-11-2012 EZ Living
                    RV)
2014-04  5-13-2014  Approving preliminary and final plat of Diamond Center
                    Subdivision
                    Granting a variance for the height of an accessory
2015-14  8-11-2015  building in required rear yard at 1395 E. Division Street
                    (PZ-03-2015)
2019-11  3-26-2019  Approving a final plat of subdivision (Diamond Indoor Trap
                    Range subdivision)
2019-12  3-26-2019  Approving a site plan (Diamond Indoor Trap Range)
2019-22  11-12-2019 Granting variances for lot coverage requirements for 1050
                    Crown Court (Case No. PZ-03-2019 Dames)
2020-11  3-10-2020  Approval a final plat of subdivision (MBR Management
                    Subdivision)
2020-12  3-10-2020  Approving a site plan (Domino’s-Diamond)
2021-13  7-13-2021  Approving a final plat of subdivision (Midland States Bank
                    Subdivision)
2021-14  7-13-2021  Approving a site plan (Midland States Bank)
2022-11  10-25-2022 Granting certain variances from the zoning code (Case No.
                    PZ-02-2022 Cowherd - 70 S. School Street)
2022-12  10-25-2022 Granting certain variances from the zoning code (Case No.
                    PZ-03-2022 Millard - 390 S. Calkey Street)
2022-13  10-25-2022 Granting certain variances from the zoning code (Case No.
                    PZ-04-2022 Kiley - 1060 S. Heritage Drive)
2022-16  11-9-2022  Approving a site plan (Jewel/Osco Shopping Center)
2023-06  9-12-2023  Granting certain variances from the zoning code (Case No.
                    PZ- 01-2023 Vaughn - 1515 E. Hugh Street)
2024-03  3-12-2024  Granting certain variances from the zoning code (Case No.
                    PZ- 01-2024 NFD Properties LLC - 2290 E. Division Street)
2024-16  10-22-2024 Granting certain variances from the zoning code (Case No.
                    PZ- 02-2024 Bach - 1025 Crown Street)
                   
 
 
TABLE XIII: DISCONNECTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        2-6-1956    Disconnection of certain territory
1997-06  11-11-1997  Disconnection of certain real estate
 
TABLE XIV: APPOINTMENTS AND DESIGNATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
-     10-3-  Appointment of Village Clerk
      1949
-     10-3-  Appointment of Village Attorney
      1949
-     10-3-  Assignment of departments of the municipal government to village officers
      1949
-     5-18-  Appointment of Village Commissioner
      1953
-     5-18-  Appointment of Village Treasurer
      1953
-     5-18-  Appointment of Village Clerk
      1953
-     6- -   Designating a bank as depository
      1953
-     6-1-   Assignment of departments of the municipal government to village officers
      1953
-     6-1-   Appointment of Village Attorney
      1953
1990- 6-26-  Designating a bank as depository
5     1990
1990- 7-24-  Appointment of Village Clerk
7     1990
1990- 7-24-  Appointment of Deputy Village Clerk
8     1990
1990- 7-24-  Appointment of Village Treasurer
9     1990
Res.  1-22-
1991- 1991   Appointment of Building Inspector
1
1991- 6-25-  Appointment of Village Treasurer
09    1991
1991- 6-25-  Appointment of Village Treasurer
11    1991
2005- 5-10-  Appointing Village Clerk and Village Treasurer
05    2005
2005- 5-24-  Designating Commissioner’s posts and appointing other representatives
06    2005
2005- 6-14-  Appointing representatives of the village
07    2005
2006- 1-10-  Appointing law firm of Tracy, Johnson and Wilson as Village Attorney
01    2006
2008- 8-12-  Designating a depository for village funds
11    2008
2009- 4-28-  Designating Commissioner's posts and appointing other representatives
07    2009
2010- 3-23-  Designating a depository for village funds
03    2010
2011- 10-25- Designating a depository for village funds
11    11
2012- 10-23- Designating a depository for village funds
37    2012
2013- 5-14-  Designating Commissioner's posts and appointing other representatives of
03    2013   village
2013- 6-11-  Authorizing Coal City Fire Protection District Fire Chief to prescribe manner
07    2013   for submitting inspection reports
2015- 5-26-  Designating Commissioner's posts and appointing other representatives of the
06    2015   village
2017- 5-9-   Designating Commissioner's posts and appointing other representatives of the
06    2017   village
2017- 5-23-  Designating Commissioner's posts and appointing other representatives of the
07    2017   village
2018- 5-22-  Amending Ord. 2017-07 designating Commissioners’s posts and appointing other
07    2018   representatives of the village
2018- 6-26-  Amending Ord. 2017-07 designating Commissioners’s posts and appointing other
10    2018   representatives of the village
2019- 2-12-  Amending Ord. 2017-07 designating Commissioners’s posts and appointing other
05    2019   representatives of the village
2019- 5-28-  Designating Commissioners posts and appointing other representatives of the
14    2019   village
2019- 6-25-  Designating depositories for village funds
16    19
2021- 5-11-  Designating Commissioner's posts and appointing other representatives of the
07    2021   village
2023- 5-9-   Designating Commissioner's posts and appointing other representatives of the
04    2023   village
            
 
TABLE XV: ENTERPRISE ZONES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
2014-15      12-9-2014   Establishment of an enterprise zone subject to the
                         Enterprise Zone Act of the State of Illinois
2015-16      10-13-2015  Amending Ordinance No. 2014-15
2015-19      12-8-2015   Amending Ordinance No. 2014-15
2019-03      2-12-2019   Establishing and designating an enterprise zone within
                         the village (additional territory)
2019-04      2-12-2019   Establishing and designating an enterprise zone within
                         the village (additional units of local government)
Res. 2020-09 12-22-2020  Authorizing the execution of an enterprise zone
                         expansion agreement
2021-02      2-9-2021    Establishing and designating an enterprise zone within
                         the village (additional territory)
Res. 2022-11 11-22-2022  Authorizing the execution of an enterprise zone
                         expansion agreement
                        
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Section Code Section
ILCS Section                          Code Section
Ch. 5, Act 5, § 8-11-1               32.16
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.01                10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.02                10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.03                10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.04                10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.05                10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.07                10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.08                10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.09                10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10                10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.11                10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.12                10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.15                10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.16                10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.17                10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.20                10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.24                10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.28                10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.29                10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 2                   10.04
Ch. 5, Act 100, § 1.1 et seq.        110.12
Ch. 5, Act 175, §§ 1-101 et seq.    10.02
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 5-65               34.19
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 15-10              34.18
Ch. 20, Act 1605, §§ 1 et seq.      135.02
Ch. 20, Act 2910, §§ 0.01 et seq.   137.02
Ch. 35, Act 115, § 9                 111.03
Ch. 35, Act 120, § 3                 111.02
Ch. 35, Act 636, § 5-25              111.01
Ch. 35, Act 636, § 5-30              111.01
Ch. 50, Act 45, §§ 1 et seq.        112.20,
                                      112.21
Ch. 50, Act 105, § 4.1               33.03
Ch. 50, Act 835, §§ 1 et seq.       160.01,
                                      160.02
                                      10.02,
Ch. 65, Act 5                         32.01,
                                      51.06,
                                      52.19
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-1-1 et seq.     94.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-1-2               10.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1               10.99,
                                      155.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1.1             10.99
                                      30.15,
                                      32.01,
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-4               53.15,
                                      111.02,
                                      111.03
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-9               90.45
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 4-5-13              30.15,
                                      32.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, Art. 8, Div. 11        32.15
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-1              111.02
                                      32.15,
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2              32.16,
                                      32.99
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2(d)           32.15
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-5              111.03
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-24             32.40
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-1-5              131.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-11.1-1 et seq. 93.05
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-12-12            155.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-30-1, et seq.  154.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-30-2             155.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-30-8             155.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-31-2             155.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-40-1             71.001,
                                      75.10
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-74.4-1 et seq. 32.25
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.4-4.2         32.25,
                                      32.26
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-1303             72.99
Ch. 70, Act 1205, § 3-9              70.01
Ch. 210, Act 45, §§ 1-101 et seq.   131.06
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 3-105              160.21
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 9-221              32.15
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 9-222              32.15
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-102             160.21
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-104             32.16
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-108.5, subd. (I)160.21
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-201(v)          158.02
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-301(c)          112.16,
                                      112.17
                                      112.15,
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-401             158.02,
                                      158.11
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-401(b)(6)       112.16
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 70-501(r)(1)       112.99
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-801             112.15
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-801(b)          112.15
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-801(c)(1)(vi)   112.15
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-801(d)          112.15
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 70-501             112.01
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 70-501(s)          112.02
Ch. 220, Act 50, §§ 1 et seq.       158.33
Ch. 220, Act 65, § 4                 158.11
Ch. 225, Act 320, § 3                53.08
Ch. 225, Act 447, §§ 5-5 et seq.    137.02
Ch. 225, Act 460, § 1                111.30
Ch. 225, Act 460, §§ 1 et seq.      111.34
Ch. 230, Act 10, §§ 1 et seq.       135.02
Ch. 230, Act 15, §§ 0.01 et seq.    110.05
Ch. 230, Act 15, §§ 1 et seq.       135.02
Ch. 230, Act 20, §§ 1 et seq.       135.02
Ch. 230, Act 25, §§ 1 et seq.       135.02
Ch. 230, Act 30, §§ 1 et seq.       135.02
Ch. 230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq.       135.02
Ch. 235, Act 5, §§ 1-1 et seq.      110.01
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 3-12(11.1)         110.10
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-27               110.10
Ch. 235, Act 20, §§ 1 et seq.       110.05
Ch. 410, Act 82, §§ 1 et seq.       114.02
Ch. 410, Act 625, §§ 1 et seq.      115.01
Ch. 410, Act 625, § 4                115.01
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.215              71.103
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.220              71.103
                                      71.103,
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.360              136.15,
                                      136.16
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 3                71.103,
                                      136.15
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 4                136.16
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 5                136.17
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 6                136.17
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 8(a)             136.16,
                                      136.17
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 8(c)             136.21
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 9                136.19
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 10               136.20
Ch. 430, Act 30, § 3                 71.081
Ch. 430, Act 65, §§ 0.01 - 16-3     Ch. 137
Ch. 515, Act 5                        137.03
Ch. 520, Act 5                        137.03
Ch. 525, Act 30, § 3.11              131.02
Ch. 525, Act 30, § 3.14              131.02
Ch. 55, Act 5, § 3-9005              137.02
Ch. 55, Act 5, § 5-1127              70.01
Ch. 605, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et seq.    158.02
Ch. 605, Act 5, § 9-113              160.30
Ch. 605, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq.      70.34
Ch. 625                               71.145
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 1-100 et seq.    136.15
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-102              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-105              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-106              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-107              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-108              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-111.8            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-112              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-113              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-116              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-117.7            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-120              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-125              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-126              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-130              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-131              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-132              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-135              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-136              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-137              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-138              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-139.1            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-140              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-141              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-145.001          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-146              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-147              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-148.2            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-148.3            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-151              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-153              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-154              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-155              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-156              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-157              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-157.5            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-158              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-159.1            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-162              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-162.5            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-163              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-166              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-166.1            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-167              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-168              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-169              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171.6            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171.8            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-172              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-174              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-176              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-177              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-178              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-179              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-181              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-182              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-187              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-187.1            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-188              10.02,
                                      70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-193              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-194              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-195              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-196              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-197              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-199              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-200              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-201              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-203              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-205              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-205.1            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-207              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-208              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-209              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-210.01           70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-211              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-211.01           70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-212              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-214              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-214.8            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-217              70.01,
                                      131.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-101(d)           70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-609              72.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-616              72.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-203             70.10,
                                      70.99
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-205             70.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-206             70.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-301             70.01,
                                      72.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-302             70.41
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-305             70.30
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-306             70.31
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-307             70.32
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-308             70.33
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-309             70.34
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-310             70.34
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-311             70.36,
                                      70.99
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-312             70.37
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-312             70.99
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-313             70.38
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-401             76.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-402             76.05
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-403             76.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-404             76.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-406             76.07
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-406(a)          76.07
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-406(b)          76.07
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-409             76.08
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-410             76.09
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-415             76.07
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-503(a)          76.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-504             76.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-601             71.001
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-601             71.001
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-604             71.001
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-605(a)          71.002
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-605(c)          71.002
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-605(e)          71.002
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-605(f)          71.002
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-605.1           71.002
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-606(a)          71.004
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-611             71.003
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-701             71.040
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-702             71.041
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-703             71.042
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-704             71.043
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-705             71.044
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-706             71.044
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-707             71.046
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-708             71.046
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-709             71.048
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-710             71.096
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-711             71.106
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-801             71.020
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-802             71.021
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-803             71.022
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-804             71.023
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-805             71.024
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-806             71.025
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-901             71.060
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-902             71.061
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-903             71.062
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-904             71.063
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-905             71.064
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-906             71.064
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-907             71.040,
                                      71.066
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-907(a)(1),(b)   71.066
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-908             71.040
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1001            74.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1002            74.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1003            74.03
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1003.1          74.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1004            74.05
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1004.1          74.13
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1005            74.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1005.1          74.14
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1006            74.07,
                                      111.32
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1007            74.08
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1008            74.09
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1009            74.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1010            74.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1011            74.11,
                                      74.99
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1201            71.080
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1202            71.081
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1204            70.41
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1205            71.082
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301            72.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.1          72.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.2          72.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.3          72.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.3(c)       72.99
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.3(c-1)     72.99
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1302            72.40
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1303            72.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1304            72.01,
                                      72.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1305            72.41
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1401            72.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1402            71.095
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403            73.20
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403.1          73.08
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403.2          73.23
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1404            73.21
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1405            73.22
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1406            71.097
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1407            71.098
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1410            71.099
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1411            71.100
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1412            71.100
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1412.1          71.101
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1412.2          71.101
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1413            71.103
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1414            71.045
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1416            71.104
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1418            71.105
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1420            71.067
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1425            71.083
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1502            73.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1503            73.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1504            73.03
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1505            73.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1505.1          73.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1506            73.05
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1507            73.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1507.1          73.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-101 et seq.   75.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-101             75.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-208             71.023,
                                      71.024
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-215             70.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-215(12)(b)      72.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-601             74.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-801             71.081
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-803             71.045,
                                      71.081
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-804             71.081
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-805             71.045
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 15-101 et seq.   75.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-101             75.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-105             75.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-106             75.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-109             75.13
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-114             75.14
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 16-101 et seq.   70.99
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 18c-7201           160.21
Ch. 705, Act 405, §§ 1-1 et seq.    131.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 1-1 et seq.        110.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-2                130.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-3                130.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-4                130.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-12               130.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-4                130.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-5                130.03
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-6                130.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-7                130.05
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 8-4                130.06
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-9               134.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-20              134.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-21              134.03
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-12              134.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 16D-2              135.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-1               131.03
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-1.1             131.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-1.4             131.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-3               131.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(1)         137.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(2)         137.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(3)         137.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(4)         137.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(5)         137.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 24-1(a)(6),(7),(9137.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(7)         137.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(8)         137.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(10)        137.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(11)        137.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(c)            137.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(e)            137.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-2               137.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-3.1             137.03
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-6               137.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 26-1               131.06
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-1               135.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-1(a)(1)-(a)(11) 110.05 
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-1(a)(4)         135.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-1.1             110.05
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-2               135.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-2(a)(1)-(a)(4)  135.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-3               110.05,
                                      135.03
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-5(a)            135.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-5(b)            135.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 31-1               133.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 31-8               133.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 32-9               133.03
Ch. 720, Act 535, § 1                137.15
Ch. 720, Act 535, § 2                137.16
Ch. 720, Act 535, § 3                137.17
Ch. 720, Act 535, § 4                137.18,
                                      137.19
Ch. 720, Act 535, § 5                137.19
Ch. 720, Act 535, § 6                137.20
Ch. 720, Act 535, § 7                137.17
Ch. 720, Act 545, §§ 0.01 - 7       Ch. 137
Ch. 720, Act 555, § 1                131.02
Ch. 725, Act 5, § 112A-3(7)          131.02
Ch. 725, Act 5, § 112A-14(b)         131.02
Ch. 725, Act 210, §§ 1 et seq.      137.02
Ch. 730, Act 150                      118.05,
                                      118.06
Ch. 735, Act 5, § 12-107             131.03
Ch. 740, Act 115, §§ 1 et seq.      94.63
Ch. 740, Act 115, §§ 1 - 7          131.03
Ch. 740, Act 174, § 15(a), (b)       34.18
Ch. 765, Act 205, §§ 1 et seq.      153.006
Ch. 765, Act 205, § 2                155.08
Ch. 775, Act 5                        33.02
Ch. 775, Act 5, § 1-102              93.01
Ch. 775, Act 5, § 6-101              34.18
Ch. 805, Act 5 §§ 1.01 et seq.      110.04
Ch. 805, Act 105, § 101.01           111.30
Ch. 805, Act 110, § .01              111.30
Ch. 805, Act 180, §§ 1-1 et seq.    110.04
Ch. 810, Act 5, §§ 5-101 et seq.    Ch. 153, App. E
Ch. 820, Act 192, §§ 1 et seq.      33.04
                                      
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      10-3-1949   T.S.O. II
–      6-1-1953    T.S.O. IX
–      11-2-1953   T.S.O. IX
–      1-3-1966    T.S.O. III
–      9-3-1967    T.S.O. XI
–      - -1972     T.S.O. III
90-1     1- -1990    T.S.O. VI
1991-1   1-22-1991   T.S.O. XIV
1992-1   11-24-1992  T.S.O. IX
2000-4   3-28-2000   T.S.O. XII
2004-21  10-26-2004  150.01
2006-16  6-27-2006   T.S.O. XII
2019-04  2-12-2019   92.02
2019-08  8-13-2019   T.S.O. IX
2020-09  12-22-2020  T.S.O. XV
2020-10  12-22-2020  T.S.O. IX
2021-01  2-9-2021    T.S.O. IX
2021-02  2-9-2021    T.S.O. IX
2022-02  1-11-2022   T.S.O. IX
2022-03  1-11-2022   T.S.O. IX
2022-11  11-22-2022  T.S.O. XV
2022-12  11-22-2022  T.S.O. IX
2023-03  4-25-2023   150.08
2024-01  1-23-2024   T.S.O. VII
2024-02  2-27-2024   T.S.O. IX
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.         Date Passed Code Section
–              - -         T.S.O. XII
–              10-3-1949   T.S.O. XIV
6                1-3-1950    T.S.O. XIV
7                1-3-1950    T.S.O. XIV
9                2-6-1950    T.S.O. VII
9A               2-6-1950    T.S.O. XIV
10               6-5-1950    T.S.O. VII
11               8-7-1950    T.S.O. VIII
–              9-11-1950   T.S.O. I
12               10-2-1950   90.03,
                             90.99
13               10-2-1950   130.99,
                             132.01
14               6-4-1951    T.S.O. VII
15               8-6-1951    T.S.O. VIII
16               9-4-1951    T.S.O. VIII
18               9-2-1952    T.S.O. VIII
–              3-24-1953   T.S.O. IX
–              5-18-1953   T.S.O. XIV
–              6- -1953    30.01,
                             T.S.O. XIV
–              6-1-1953    T.S.O. VIII,
                             T.S.O. XIV
–              7-6-1953    32.03
–              9-18-1953   T.S.O. IX
–              10-4-1953   T.S.O. IX
–              7-6-1954    T.S.O. VII
–              11-1-1954   T.S.O. I
–              7-11-1955   T.S.O. VII
–              2-6-1956    T.S.O. XIII
–              6-4-1956    T.S.O. VII
–              7-2-1956    T.S.O. V
–              8-6-1956    T.S.O. VIII
–              7-1-1957    T.S.O. VII
–              2-22-1958   T.S.O. III
–              6-5-1958    T.S.O. V
–              7-7-1958    T.S.O. VII
–              8-4-1958    T.S.O. VIII
–              - -1959     T.S.O. VIII
                             150.65 -
–              7-6-1959    150.68,
                             T.S.O. VII
–              8-17-1959   T.S.O. XII
–              1-4-1960    T.S.O. I
–              7-11-1960   52.02,
                             52.99
–              9-3-1961    T.S.O. VIII
–              - -1962     T.S.O. X
–              - -1963     T.S.O. V
–              7-7-1963    T.S.O. X
–              4-20-1967   111.03
–              7-16-1967   111.02
–              12-1-1968   T.S.O. V
–              1-5-1969    T.S.O. V
–              4-28-1972   T.S.O. II
–              5-12-1972   T.S.O. II
–              8-11-1972   T.S.O. II
–              12-9-1976   T.S.O. II
–              4-11-1977   T.S.O. II
–              4-2-1978    T.S.O. I
–              2-6-1979    T.S.O. IV,
                             T.S.O. V
–              4-14-1981   T.S.O. I
–              7-6-1982    T.S.O. VII
1040-A           12-7-1982   130.99,
                             137.05
                             90.15 -
                             90.21,
–              5-3-1983    90.99,
                             111.60 -
                             111.66,
                             111.99
–              5-1-1984    T.S.O. VII
–              8-28-1984   T.S.O. VIII
1202             6-11-1985   T.S.O. VII
                             70.99,
1475             5-13-1986   71.145 -
                             71.148
–              5-1-1987    T.S.O. VII
–              - -1988     T.S.O. VIII
–              6-21-1988   T.S.O. VII
1989-4           7-25-1989   T.S.O. VII
1989-6           8-29-1989   T.S.O. II
1989-7           8-29-1989   T.S.O. II
1989-8           8-29-1989   T.S.O. II
1989-9           8-29-1989   T.S.O. II
1989-10          10-24-1989  T.S.O. II
1990-11          - -1989     T.S.O. VIII
1990-1           1-9-1990    T.S.O. II
                             92.15 -
1990-004         3-27-1990   92.20,
                             92.99
1990-5           6-26-1990   T.S.O. XIV
1990-6           6-26-1990   90.30 -
                             90.32
1990-7           7-24-1990   T.S.O. XIV
1990-8           7-24-1990   T.S.O. XIV
1990-9           7-24-1990   T.S.O. XIV
1990-10          7-24-1990   150.05
1990-11          8-14-1990   T.S.O. VII
1991-04          5-7-1991    T.S.O. IX
1991-05          6-25-1991   T.S.O. II
1991-09          6-25-1991   T.S.O. XIV
1991-11          6-25-1991   T.S.O. XIV
1991-06          7-9-1991    T.S.O. II
1991-07          7-9-1991    T.S.O. II
1991-08          7-9-1991    T.S.O. IV
1991-12          7-25-1991   T.S.O. IX
1991-10          7-30-1991   T.S.O. VII
1991-13          8-27-1991   T.S.O. VII
1991-14          8-27-1991   53.01 -
                             53.15
–              9-10-1991   T.S.O. IX
1991-19          11-4-1991   T.S.O. III
1991-20          11-4-1991   T.S.O. IX
                             93.01 -
1991-21          - -         93.04,
                             93.99
1991-24          12-19-1991  T.S.O. VIII
1992-01          3-3-1992    T.S.O. X
1992-02          4-14-1992   T.S.O. II
1992-03          4-28-1992   T.S.O. II
1992-04          4-29-1992   T.S.O. I
1992-05          7-30-1992   T.S.O. VII
1992-02          9- -1992    T.S.O. VII
1992-07          11-24-1992  T.S.O. II
1992-08          12-8-1992   T.S.O. VIII
1992-09          12-8-1992   T.S.O. IV
1993-02          3-9-1993    T.S.O. II
1993-03          3-9-1993    T.S.O. II
1993-04          3-23-1993   T.S.O. X
1993-05          6-8-1993    T.S.O. I
1993-07          7-30-1993   T.S.O. VII
1993-08          9-14-1993   T.S.O. VII
1993-09          9-14-1993   T.S.O. IX
1993-11          9-28-1993   T.S.O. II
1993-12          9-28-1993   T.S.O. II
1993-13          9-28-1993   T.S.O. IV
1993-14          11-23-1993  T.S.O. II
1993-15          11-23-1993  T.S.O. II
1993-16          11-23-1993  T.S.O. IV
1993-17          12-1-1993   T.S.O. II
1993-18          12-1-1993   T.S.O. II
1993-23          12-1-1993   T.S.O. IV
1993-19          12-14-1993  70.99;
                             Ch. 78, Sch. I
1993-20          12-14-1993  92.01,
                             92.99
1993-21          12-14-1993  T.S.O. VIII
1993-22          12-14-1993  50.01,
                             50.99
1994-01          4-26-1994   150.04
                             111.40 -
1994-02          4-26-1994   111.48,
                             111.99
1994-03          5-10-1994   150.03,
                             T.S.O. IV
1994-05          5-24-1994   T.S.O. XII
1994-06          5-24-1994   T.S.O. XII
1994-08          7-12-1994   T.S.O. VII
1994-12          7-26-1994   T.S.O. II
1994-13          7-26-1994   T.S.O. II
1994-14          7-26-1994   T.S.O. IV
                             130.99,
1994-16          9-13-1994   131.01,
                             131.03 -
                             131.05
1994-17          - -         T.S.O. II
1994-18          9-13-1994   T.S.O. II
1994-19          9-13-1994   T.S.O. IV
1994-21          10-25-1994  T.S.O. IV
1994-22          10-25-1994  T.S.O. IV
1994-23          10-25-1994  T.S.O. II
1994-24          10-25-1994  T.S.O. II
1994-25          10-25-1994  T.S.O. IV
1994-26          10-25-1994  T.S.O. II
1994-27          10-25-1994  T.S.O. II
1994-28          10-25-1994  T.S.O. IV
1994-29          10-25-1994  T.S.O. II
1994-30          10-25-1994  T.S.O. II
1994-31          10-25-1994  T.S.O. IV
1994-32          10-25-1994  T.S.O. VII
1994-33          11-22-1994  T.S.O. II
1994-35          11-27-1994  T.S.O. II
1994-37          12-13-1994  T.S.O. VIII
1994-34          12-27-1994  T.S.O. IV
1995-03          7-25-1995   T.S.O. VII
1995-08          12-12-1995  50.16
1995-09          12-12-1995  50.17
1994-13          12-13-1995  T.S.O. II
1994-36          12-13-1995  T.S.O. II
1995-10          12-13-1995  T.S.O. II
                             153.001-
                             153.004,
                             153.006,
                             153.015,
                             153.016,
                             153.017,
1996-01          2-13-1996   153.030-
                             153.032,
                             153.045-
                             153.049,
                             153.080,
                             153.081,
                             153.110 -
                             153.119
1996-01          7-23-1996   T.S.O. VII
1996-2           - -         52.15 -
                             52.20
1994-36          12-13-1996  T.S.O. II
-                12-18-1996  T.S.O. VIII
1997-01          2-11-1997   T.S.O. II
1997-03          5-13-1997   T.S.O. IV
1997-04          5-13-1997   T.S.O. V
–              6-28-1997   T.S.O. XI
1997-06          11-11-1997  T.S.O. XIII
1997-09          1-7-1997    111.30 -
                             111.34
1998-01          - -1998     32.15,
                             32.99
1998-02          3-24-1998   T.S.O. II
1998-04          7-28-1998   32.16,
                             32.99
1998-07          9-22-1998   32.16
1998-08          9-22-1998   32.15
1998-09          12-15-1998  T.S.O. VIII
1998-10          12-15-1998  T.S.O. III
                             111.15 -
M2000-8          4-25-1999   111.23,
                             111.99
                             30.25 -
M99-1            7-13-1999   30.30,
                             30.99
99-2             7-13-1999   T.S.O. IV
99-1             7-27-1999   T.S.O. VII
D99-4            12-14-1999  153.015,
                             153.030
D99-5            12-14-1999  153.003
99-2             12-20-1999  T.S.O. VIII
M2000-1          1-11-2000   T.S.O. II
M2000-5          1-11-2000   T.S.O. II
M-2000-2         1-25-2000   T.S.O. V
M2000-3          1-25-2000   T.S.O. IV
M2000-4          1-25-2000   T.S.O. II
M-2000-6         3-28-2000   T.S.O. III
M2000-7          3-28-2000   T.S.O. IV
-2000-1          6-27-2000   T.S.O. VII
-2000-01         12-12-2000  T.S.O. VIII
2001-01          1-23-2001   T.S.O. I
M-2001-1         2-27-2001   T.S.O. III
                             51.01 -
2001-M-03        4-24-2001   51.15,
                             51.99
2001-M-02        4-24-2001   52.01
2001-3           5-22-2001   31.01
2001-4           5-22-2001   51.09
2001-6           6-12-2001   T.S.O. I
2001-07          8-14-2001   T.S.O. VII
2001-8           10-23-2001  T.S.O. II
2001-8           11-27-2001  T.S.O. VIII
2001-9           11-27-2001  T.S.O. III
2002-02          4-23-2002   52.99
2002-04          5-28-2002   T.S.O. VII
2002-04A         - -2002     91.01 -
                             91.05
2002-03          6-25-2002   T.S.O. VII
2002-05          8-13-2002   50.16
2002-06          8-27-2002   111.01
2002-07          9-24-2002   T.S.O. II
2002-08          11-26-2002  T.S.O. VIII
2002-09          11-26-2002  T.S.O. III
                             111.75 -
2003-01          1-14-2003   111.85,
                             111.99
2003-02          3-11-2003   T.S.O. II
2003-03          4-8-2003    32.02
2003-05          6-24-2003   T.S.O. VII
2003-08          - -2003     150.02
2003-08          11-25-2003  T.S.O. III
2003-09          12-9-2003   T.S.O. VIII
2004-01          1-13-2004   T.S.O. IV
2004-03          - -2003     T.S.O. I
2004-05          2-10-2004   150.20
2004-06          3-9-2004    T.S.O. V
2004-08          3-9-2004    50.15 -
                             50.18
2004-10          3-9-2004    30.16
2004-12          4- -2004    32.01
2004-11          4-27-2004   30.15
2004-13          6-8-2004    30.02
2004-16A         7-8-2004    T.S.O. VII
2004-18-A        7-8-2004    150.20
2004-17-B        10-12-2004  T.S.O. III
2004-18B         10-12-2004  T.S.O. II
2004-19          10-12-2004  156.01
2004-22          12- -2004   T.S.O. III
2004-23          - -2004     T.S.O. VIII
2005-01          2-22-2005   T.S.O. IX
2005-02          3-22-2005   150.21
2005-03          3-22-2005   150.22
2005-04          3-22-2005   150.23
2005-05          5-10-2005   T.S.O. XIV
2005-06          5-24-2005   T.S.O. XIV
2005-07          6-14-2005   T.S.O. XIV
2005-08          6-14-2005   T.S.O. IV
2005-09          7-12-2005   T.S.O. VI
2005-10          7-26-2005   T.S.O. VII
2005-13          10-25-2005  T.S.O. IX
2005-14          10-25-2005  T.S.O. IV
2005-15          12-13-2005  T.S.O. VIII
2005-16          12-13-2005  T.S.O. III
2005-17          12-13-2005  150.20
2006-01          1-10-2006   T.S.O. XIV
2006-02          2-14-2006   150.21
2006-05          2-14-2006   150.06
                             111.75 -
2006-06          2-14-2006   111.85,
                             111.99
2006-07          2-28-2006   T.S.O. II
2006-08          2-28-2006   T.S.O. II
2006-09          2-28-2006   T.S.O. IV
2006-10          2-28-2006   T.S.O. II
                             111.15 -
2006-11          4-25-2006   111.23,
                             111.99
2006-12          6-13-2006   52.01,
                             52.99
2006-14          6-13-2006   Ch. 77, Sch. I
2006-15          6-27-2006   T.S.O. XII
2006-17          6-27-2006   T.S.O. XII
2006-18          7-11-2006   T.S.O. VII
2006-20          8-22-2006   72.13,
                             72.99
2006-21          8-28-2006   T.S.O. IX
2006-19          8-8-2006    50.18
2006-22          11-14-2006  50.18
2006-23          11-14-2006  T.S.O. XI
2006-24          12-12-2006  T.S.O. VIII
2006-25          12-12-2006  T.S.O. III
2007-01          1-9-2007    150.07
2007-02          2-13-2007   T.S.O. III
2007-03          2-13-2007   150.21
2007-05          2-27-2007   150.35 -
                             150.45
2007-06          3-27-2007   T.S.O. IX
2007-08          4-24-2007   T.S.O. IX
2007-10          5-8-2007    T.S.O. IX
2007-12          6-26-2007   Ch. 77, Sch. I
2007-13          7-10-2007   T.S.O. II
2007-14          7-10-2007   T.S.O. VII
                             153.001 -
                             153.007,
                             153.015 -
                             153.017,
                             153.030 -
                             153.032,
                             153.045 -
                             153.049,
                             153.060,
                             153.061,
2007-15          7-10-2007   153.070 -
                             153.082,
                             153.095,
                             153.096,
                             153.110 -
                             153.119,
                             153.130 -
                             153.132,
                             153.995 -
                             153.999,
                             Ch. 153, App. A -
                             F
2007-16          7-30-2007   T.S.O. III
2007-17          8-14-2007   150.09
2007-18          8-28-2007   T.S.O. IV
                             90.30 -
2007-19          8-28-2007   90.32,
                             90.99
                             111.30 -
2007-20          9-11-2007   111.34,
                             111.99
2007-21          9-11-2007   Adopting Ordinance
2007-22          9-11-2007   T.S.O. IX
2007-23          10-9-2007   Ch. 77, Sch. I
2007-24          11-30-2007  T.S.O. IX
2007-25          11-30-2007  T.S.O. XII
2007-26          11-30-2007  T.S.O. XII
2007-27          12-11-2007  T.S.O. VIII
2007-28          12-11-2007  T.S.O. II
2008-01          2-12-2008   150.21
2008-02          2-12-2008   52.17
2008-03          2-12-2008   T.S.O. X
2008-04          3- -2008    T.S.O. IX
2008-05          3-25-2008   T.S.O. IX
2008-06          4-22-2008   51.09
                             158.01 -
                             158.03,
                             158.10 -
2008-07          4-22-2008   158.18,
                             158.30 -
                             158.38,
                             158.98,
                             158.99
                             112.01 -
2008-08          4-22-2008   112.03,
                             112.99
2008-09          4-22-2008   112.15 -
                             112.21
2008-11          8-12-2008   T.S.O. XIV
2008-12          9-9-2008    T.S.O. X
2008-13          10-14-2008  Ch. 77, Sch. I
2008-14          12-9-2008   T.S.O. VIII
2008-15          12-9-2008   T.S.O. III
2009-06          4-14-2009   32.25,
                             32.26
2009-07          4-28-2009   T.S.O. XIV
2009-08          6-9-2009    33.01
2009-10          6-23-2009   T.S.O. VII
2009-12          8-11-2009   50.18
2009-13          8-11-2009   72.13
2009-14          9-8-2009    Adopting Ordinance
2009-15          11-24-2009  T.S.O. IX
2009-16          11-24-2009  T.S.O. IX
2009-17          12-8-2009   T.S.O. VIII
2009-18          12-8-2009   T.S.O. III
2010-01          2-9-2010    T.S.O. IX
2010-02          2-9-2010    T.S.O. IX
2010-03          3-23-2010   T.S.O. XIV
2010-04          3-23-2010   150.20,
                             150.21
2010-05          5-11-2010   33.01
2010-06          5-25-2010   T.S.O. IX
2010-07          6-22-2010   T.S.O. VII
2010-08          6-22-2010   T.S.O. XII
2010-09          6-22-2010   T.S.O. X
2010-10          8-10-2010   159.01
2010-14          10-26-2010  150.24
2010-15          11-3-2010   T.S.O. III
2010-16          11-3-2010   T.S.O. III
2010-17          11-23-2010  132.02
2010-18          12-14-2010  T.S.O. III
2010-19          12-14-2010  T.S.O. VIII
2010-20          12-14-2010  T.S.O. III
2011-01          1-25-2011   32.04
2011-02          2-8-2011    T.S.O. III
2011-04          4-12-2011   T.S.O. IV,
                             T.S.O. XII
2011-05          5-10-2011   33.01
2011-06          6-28-2011   T.S.O. VII
2011-07          8-9-2011    T.S.O. X
                             113.01 -
2011-08          8-23-2011   113.06,
                             113.99,
                             Ch. 113, App. A
2011-10          9-27-2011   T.S.O. IV
2011-11          10-25-2011  T.S.O. XIV
2011-13          11-8-2011   T.S.O. IX
2011-14          11-23-2011  150.24
2011-15          12-13-2011  T.S.O. III
2011-16          12-13-2011  T.S.O. VIII
2012-01          1-24-2012   33.02
2012-02          1-24-2012   93.05
2012-03          1-24-2012   30.35
                             138.01 -
2012-04          1-24-2012   138.04,
                             138.99,
                             Ch. 138, App. A
2012-06          4-10-2012   32.25,
                             32.26
2012-08          4-24-2012   T.S.O. IV,
                             T.S.O. XII
2012-09          4-24-2012   T.S.O. XII
2012-11          5-22-2012   T.S.O. XII
2012-12          5-22-2012   T.S.O. IX
2012-13          5-22-2012   T.S.O. XII
2012-14          5-22-2012   33.01
                             155.01,
                             155.02,
2012-15          5-22-2012   155.04 -
                             155.13,
                             155.99
2012-18          6-26-2012   T.S.O. IV
2012-19          6-26-2012   T.S.O. IV
2012-20          6-26-2012   T.S.O. IV
2012-21          6-26-2012   T.S.O. IV
2012-22          6-26-2012   T.S.O. IV
2012-23          6-26-2012   T.S.O. IV
2012-26          7-10-2012   135.02
2012-27          7-10-2012   T.S.O. VII
2012-28          7-10-2012   Adopting Ordinance
2012-35          9-25-2012   T.S.O. XII
2012-36          9-25-2012   T.S.O. XII
2012-37          10-23-2012  T.S.O. XIV
2012-38          11-5-2012   T.S.O. XII
2012-39          12-11-2012  T.S.O. VIII
2012-40          12-11-2012  T.S.O. III
2013-01          1-22-2013   150.24
2013-02          1-22-2013   T.S.O. VIII
2013-03          5-14-2013   T.S.O. XIV
2013-04          3-14-2013   33.01
2013-05          6-11-2013   T.S.O. VII
2013-07          6-11-2013   T.S.O. XIV
                             95.01 -
2013-09          7-23-2013   95.04,
                             95.99
2013-11          11-26-2013  T.S.O. VIII
2013-12          11-26-2013  T.S.O. III
2013-13          11-26-2013  150.69
2014-01          5-13-2014   T.S.O. IV
2014-02          5-13-2014   T.S.O. V
2014-03          5-13-2014   T.S.O. IX
2014-04          5-13-2014   T.S.O. XII
2014-05          5-13-2014   33.01
2014-06          5-27-2014   T.S.O. VII
2014-07          8-12-2014   30.45
2014-08          8-12-2014   30.46
2014-09          8-26-2014   50.18
2014-10          8-26-2014   51.09
2014-12          8-26-2014   52.17
2014-13          12-9-2014   T.S.O. VIII
2014-14          12-9-2014   T.S.O. III
2014-15          12-9-2014   T.S.O. XV
2015-1           3-10-2015   115.01
2015-3           5-26-2015   T.S.O. VII
                             94.01,
                             94.02,
                             94.20 -
                             94.34,
2015-04          5-26-2015   94.45 -
                             94.50,
                             94.60 -
                             94.63,
                             94.99
2015-05          5-26-2015   33.01
2015-06          5-26-2015   T.S.O. XIV
2015-07          6-23-2015   159.01
2015-08, § 1.00 6-23-2015   151.001
2015-08, § 2.01 6-23-2015   151.002
2015-08, § 2.02 6-23-2015   151.002
2015-08, § 3.01 6-23-2015   151.003
2015-08, § 3.02 6-23-2015   151.004
2015-08, § 3.03 6-23-2015   151.005
2015-08, § 3.04 6-23-2015   151.006
2015-08, § 3.05 6-23-2015   151.007
2015-08, § 3.06 6-23-2015   151.008
2015-08, § 3.07 6-23-2015   151.009
2015-08, § 3.08 6-23-2015   151.010
2015-08, § 3.09 6-23-2015   151.011
2015-08, § 3.10 6-23-2015   151.012
2015-08, § 3.11 6-23-2015   151.013
2015-08, § 3.12 6-23-2015   151.014
2015-08, § 3.13 6-23-2015   151.015
2015-08, § 3.14 6-23-2015   151.016
2015-08, § 3.15 6-23-2015   151.017
2015-08, § 3.16 6-23-2015   151.018
2015-08, § 3.17 6-23-2015   151.019
2015-08, § 3.18 6-23-2015   151.020
2015-08, § 3.19 6-23-2015   151.021
2015-08, § 3.20 6-23-2015   151.022
2015-08, § 4.01 6-23-2015   151.035
2015-08, § 4.02 6-23-2015   151.036
2015-08, § 4.03 6-23-2015   151.037
2015-08, § 4.04 6-23-2015   151.038
2015-08, § 4.05 6-23-2015   151.039
2015-08, § 4.06 6-23-2015   151.040
2015-08, § 4.07 6-23-2015   151.041
2015-08, § 4.08 6-23-2015   151.042
2015-08, § 4.09 6-23-2015   151.043
2015-08, § 5.01 6-23-2015   151.055
2015-08, § 5.02 6-23-2015   151.056
2015-08, § 5.03 6-23-2015   151.057
2015-08, § 5.04 6-23-2015   151.058
2015-08, § 5.05 6-23-2015   151.059
2015-08, § 5.06 6-23-2015   151.060
2015-08, § 6.00 6-23-2015   151.061
2015-08, § 7.00 6-23-2015   151.075
2015-08, § 7.01 6-23-2015   151.076
2015-08, § 7.02 6-23-2015   151.077
2015-08, § 7.03 6-23-2015   151.078
2015-08, § 7.04 6-23-2015   151.079
2015-08, § 7.05 6-23-2015   151.080
2015-08, § 8.01 6-23-2015   151.090
2015-08, § 8.02 6-23-2015   151.091
2015-08, § 8.03 6-23-2015   151.092
2015-08, § 8.04 6-23-2015   151.093
2015-08, § 9.01 6-23-2015   151.105
2015-08, § 9.02 6-23-2015   151.106
2015-08, § 9.03 6-23-2015   151.107
2015-08, § 9.04 6-23-2015   151.108
2015-08, § 9.05 6-23-2015   151.109
2015-08, § 10.016-23-2015   151.120
2015-08, § 10.026-23-2015   151.121
2015-08, § 11.016-23-2015   151.135
2015-08, § 11.026-23-2015   151.136
2015-08, § 11.036-23-2015   151.137
2015-08, § 11.046-23-2015   151.138
2015-08, § 11.056-23-2015   151.139
2015-08, § 12.016-23-2015   151.150
2015-08, § 12.026-23-2015   151.151
2015-08, § 12.036-23-2015   151.152
2015-08, § 12.046-23-2015   151.153
2015-08, § 12.056-23-2015   151.154
2015-08, § 12.066-23-2015   151.155
2015-08, § 12.076-23-2015   151.156
2015-08, § 12.086-23-2015   151.157
2015-08, § 12.096-23-2015   151.158
2015-08, § 12.106-23-2015   151.159
2015-08, § 12.116-23-2015   151.160
2015-08, § 12.126-23-2015   151.161
2015-08, § 13.016-23-2015   151.175
2015-08, § 13.026-23-2015   151.176
2015-08, § 13.036-23-2015   151.177
2015-08, § 13.046-23-2015   151.178
2015-08, § 13.056-23-2015   151.179
2015-08, § 13.066-23-2015   151.180
2015-08, § 13.076-23-2015   151.181
2015-08, § 13.086-23-2015   151.182
2015-08, § 13.096-23-2015   151.183
2015-08, § 13.106-23-2015   151.184
2015-08, § 13.116-23-2015   151.185
2015-08, § 14.016-23-2015   151.200
2015-08, § 14.026-23-2015   151.201
2015-08, § 14.036-23-2015   151.202
2015-08, § 14.046-23-2015   151.203
2015-08, § 14.056-23-2015   151.204
2015-08, § 14.066-23-2015   151.205
2015-08, § 14.076-23-2015   151.206
2015-08, § 14.086-23-2015   151.207
2015-08, § 14.096-23-2015   151.208
2015-08, § 14.106-23-2015   151.209
2015-08, § 14.116-23-2015   151.210
2015-08, § 14.126-23-2015   151.211
2015-08, § 15.016-23-2015   151.225
2015-08, § 15.026-23-2015   151.226
2015-08, § 15.036-23-2015   151.227
2015-08, § 15.046-23-2015   151.228
2015-08, § 15.056-23-2015   151.229
2015-08, § 15.066-23-2015   151.230
2015-08, § 15.076-23-2015   151.231
2015-08, § 15.086-23-2015   151.232
2015-08, § 15.096-23-2015   151.233
2015-08, § 16.016-23-2015   151.245
2015-08, § 16.026-23-2015   151.246
2015-08, § 16.036-23-2015   151.247
2015-08, § 16.046-23-2015   151.248
2015-08, § 16.056-23-2015   151.249
2015-08, § 17.016-23-2015   Ch. 151, App. A
2015-09          7-14-2015   T.S.O. IX
2015-14          8-11-2015   T.S.O. XII
2015-15          9-22-2015   T.S.O. IV
2015-16          10-13-2015  T.S.O. XV
2015-17          11-24-2015  T.S.O. III
2015-18          11-24-2015  T.S.O. VIII
2015-19          12-8-2015   T.S.O. XV
2016-01          1-12-2016   T.S.O. IV
2016-02          1-12-2016   T.S.O. IV
2016-03          1-12-2016   T.S.O. IV
2016-04          1-12-2016   151.057,
                             T.S.O. IV
2016-07          5-24-2016   T.S.O. VII
2016-08          5-24-2016   33.01
2016-10          7-26-2016   54.01,
                             54.02
2016-13          12-13-2016  T.S.O. III
2016-14          12-13-2016  T.S.O. VIII
2017-01          2-14-2017   T.S.O. X
2017-04          3-14-2017   T.S.O. X
2017-06          5-9-2017    T.S.O. XIV
2017-07          5-23-2017   T.S.O. XIV
2017-08          5-23-2017   T.S.O. VII
2017-09          5-23-2017   33.01
2017-10          7-11-2017   T.S.O. IX
2017-13          8-22-2017   T.S.O. IX
2017-14          9-12-2017   T.S.O. IX
                             116.01 -
2017-15          9-26-2017   116.11,
                             116.99
2017-16          9-12-2017   T.S.O. IX
2017-18          9-26-2017   T.S.O. I
2017-19          10-10-2017  Ch. 77, Sch. I
2017-20          10-10-2017  Adopting Ordinance
2017-22          12-12-2017  T.S.O. III
2017-23          12-12-2017  T.S.O. VIII
2018-01          1-9-2018    34.01
2018-02          1-9-2018    34.15 -
                             34.20
                             154.01 -
                             154.06,
2018-03          1-23-2018   154.20,
                             154.21,
                             154.35 -
                             154.46
2018-04          2-27-2018   150.09
2018-05          3-27-2018   53.12
2018-06          5-8-2018    T.S.O. IX
2018-07          5-22-2018   T.S.O. XIV
2018-09          5-22-2018   33.01
2018-10          6-26-2018   T.S.O. XIV
2018-11          6-26-2018   T.S.O. VII
2018-12          7-24-2018   160.01 -
                             160.30
2018-13          10-23-2018  T.S.O. IX
2018-14          12-11-2018  T.S.O. III
2018-15          12-11-2018  T.S.O. VIII
2019-01          1-22-2019   152.01,
                             152.02
2019-02          1-22-2019   155.02,
                             155.03
2019-03          2-12-2019   T.S.O. XV
2019-04          2-12-2019   T.S.O. XV
2019-05          2-12-2019   T.S.O. XIV
2019-06          2-12-2019   95.03
2019-07          3-26-2019   151.135
2019-08          3-26-2019   T.S.O. IX
2019-09          3-26-2019   T.S.O. V
2019-10          3-26-2019   T.S.O. IV
2019-11          3-26-2019   T.S.O. XII
2019-12          3-26-2019   T.S.O. XII
2019-14          5-28-2019   T.S.O. XIV
2019-15          6-11-2019   T.S.O. VII
2019-16          6-25-2019   T.S.O. XIV
2019-17          6-25-2019   T.S.O. IX
2019-19          8-13-2019   117.01 -
                             117.04
2019-20          10-22-2019  T.S.O. IX
2019-21          11-12-2019  52.02
2019-22          11-12-2019  T.S.O. XII
2019-23          11-26-2019  T.S.O. IX
2019-24          11-26-2019  T.S.O. IX
2019-25          11-26-2019  Adopting Ordinance
2019-26          12-10-2019  97.01 -
                             97.03
2019-27          12-10-2019  T.S.O. III
2019-28          12-10-2019  T.S.O. VIII
2020-02          1-28-2020   72.10
2020-04          2-25-2020   T.S.O. III
2020-05          2-25-2020   T.S.O. III
2020-06          2-25-2020   T.S.O. III
2020-07          2-25-2020   T.S.O. III
2020-08          3-10-2020   T.S.O. IX
2020-09          3-10-2020   T.S.O. V
2020-10          3-10-2020   T.S.O. IV
2020-11          3-10-2020   T.S.O. XII
2020-12          3-10-2020   T.S.O. XII
2020-13          3-10-2020   T.S.O. IX
2020-14          4-14-2020   T.S.O. IX
2020-15          4-14-2020   51.09
2020-16          4-14-2020   T.S.O. III
2020-17          4-14-2020   T.S.O. III
2020-18          4-28-2020   T.S.O. IX
2020-19          5-12-2020   T.S.O. VII
2020-20          6-23-2020   150.21
2020-21          7-14-2020   34.01
2020-22          7-28-2020   T.S.O. X
2020-23          8-23-2020   T.S.O. IX
2020-24          10-27-2020  34.01
2020-25          10-27-2020  T.S.O. IX
2020-27          12-8-2020   T.S.O. III
2020-28          12-8-2020   T.S.O. III
2020-29          12-8-2020   T.S.O. VIII
2020-30          12-8-2020   T.S.O. IX
2021-01          1-12-2021   34.01
2021-02          2-9-2021    T.S.O. XV
                             153.001 -
                             153.007,
                             153.015 -
                             153.017,
                             153.030 -
                             153.032,
                             153.040,
                             153.045 -
                             153.049,
                             153.060,
                             153.061,
                             153.070 -
                             153.082,
2021-03          3-9-2021    153.095,
                             153.096,
                             153.110 -
                             153.119,
                             153.130 -
                             153.132,
                             153.145 -
                             153.154,
                             153.170,
                             153.171,
                             153.995 -
                             153.999,
                             Ch. 153, App. A -
                             App. F
2021-05          - -         34.01
2021-06          4-27-2021   T.S.O. VII
2021-07          5-11-2021   T.S.O. XIV
2021-8           6-8-2021    Ch. 77, Sch. I
2021-9           6-22-2021   Ch. 77, Sch. I
2021-10          6-22-2021   T.S.O. V
2021-11          7-13-2021   T.S.O. IX
2021-12          7-13-2021   T.S.O. IV
2021-13          7-13-2021   T.S.O. XII
2021-14          7-13-2021   T.S.O. XII
2021-16          10-12-2021  33.03
2022-01          1-11-2022   T.S.O. X
2022-04          3-22-2022   52.16
2022-05          4-12-2022   T.S.O. VII
2022-06          4-26-2022   T.S.O. IX
2022-07          6-14-2022   T.S.O. X
2022-08          7-26-2022   34.01
2022-09          8-23-2022   T.S.O. X
2022-10          10-25-2022  151.020
2022-11          10-25-2022  T.S.O. XII
2022-12          10-25-2022  T.S.O. XII
2022-13          10-25-2022  T.S.O. XII
2022-14          10-25-2022  T.S.O. IX
2022-15          11-9-2022   T.S.O. IX
2022-16          11-9-2022   T.S.O. XII
2022-17          11-9-2022   T.S.O. IX
2022-18          11-9-2022   T.S.O. IX
2022-19          11-9-2022   T.S.O. IX
2022-20          11-9-2022   T.S.O. IX
2022-21          11-9-2022   T.S.O. IX
2022-22          12-13-2022  34.01
2022-23          12-13-2022  Ch. 77, Sch. I
2022-24          12-13-2022  T.S.O. III
2022-25          12-13-2022  T.S.O. III
2022-26          12-13-2022  T.S.O. VIII
2023-01          1-24-2023   150.39
2023-02          2-14-2023   95.01,
                             95.03
2023-03          4-25-2023   T.S.O. VII
2023-04          5-9-2023    T.S.O. XIV
                             110.01 -
2023-05          8-8-2023    110.32,
                             110.99
2023-06          9-12-2023   T.S.O. XII
2023-07          11-14-2023  110.07,
                             110.08
2023-09          12-12-2023  T.S.O. III
2023-10          12-12-2023  T.S.O. III
2023-11          12-12-2023  T.S.O. VIII
2023-12          12-12-2023  33.04
2024-01          1-23-2024   34.01
2024-02          2-13-2024   110.08
2024-03          3-12-2024   T.S.O. XII
2024-04          3-12-2024   T.S.O. IX
2024-05          3-26-2024   T.S.O. X
                             118.01 -
2024-06          4-9-2024    118.12,
                             118.99
2024-07          4-9-2024    34.01
2024-08          4-23-2024   T.S.O. VII
2024-09          5-14-2024   110.08
2024-10          8-13-2024   90.45
2024-11          8-13-2024   33.05
2024-12          8-13-2024   32.40
2024-13          9-24-2024   T.S.O. IX
2024-14          9-24-2024   110.08
2024-15          10-22-2024  110.07
2024-16          10-22-2024  T.S.O. XII
                             114.01 -
2024-17          11-12-2024  114.19,
                             114.99
2024-19          11-26-2024  34.01
2024-20          12-10-2024  159.01
2024-21          12-10-2024  T.S.O. III
2024-22          12-10-2024  T.S.O. III
2024-23          12-10-2024  T.S.O. VIII
                            
 
 
