VILLAGE CODE
of
DIETERICH, ILLINOIS
2017
Code current through:
Ord. 1191-2025, passed 4-7-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the Village of Dieterich, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 1191-2025, passed April 7, 2025.
Ordinances of the Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions
of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ORDINANCE NO. __1196-2025______
AN ORDINANCE REGULATING THE VILLAGE OF DIETERICH CEMETERY IN THE VILLAGE OF
DIETERICH, ILLIINOIS
 
WHEREAS, the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, is authorized, pursuant to 65 ILCS
5/11-49-1, to establish and regulate cemeteries within or without the municipal
limits of the Village of Dieterich, Illinois; and,
 
   WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees of the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, after
careful investigation and consideration, has determined that it is in the best
interest of the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, to establish regulations for
the orderly and efficient administration of the Village of Dieterich Cemetery
within the corporate limits of the Village of Dieterich, Illinois.
 
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
VILLAGE OF DIETERICH, ILLINOIS, THAT:
 
SECTION 1:   The preliminary paragraphs set forth above are incorporated herein
as part of this Ordinance.
 
SECTION 2:    TITLE: This Ordinance shall be known and cited as the “Village of
Dieterich Cemetery Ordinance.”
 
SECTION 3: DEFINITIONS:  The following words, terms and phrases, when used in
this Ordinance, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this Section,
except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
 
A.   “Cemetery” shall mean, for the purposes of these rules and regulations,
the whole designated area set aside and apart for the burial of human remains
by earth interment, or by interment in a mausoleum, crypt, or urn.
 
B.   “Cremation” shall mean the process whereby a body is reduced to ashes.
 
C.   “Cremains” shall mean the container and incinerated body of a deceased
person.
 
D.   “Crypt” shall mean a vault or chamber which is wholly or partly beneath
the surface of the earth.
 
E.   “Grave” shall mean an excavation in the earth for the burial of remains,
as well as including the burial place in a tomb or sepulcher.
 
F.   “Gravestone” shall mean a stone with an inscription erected near the grave
or laying over it.
 
G.   “Interment” shall mean the act of depositing remains in the earth, tomb,
or burial vault.
 
H.   “Lot” shall mean a part of the Cemetery intended for burial and embraces
more grounds than a single grave.
 
I.   “Mausoleum” shall mean a building in which remains are deposited above the
ground.
 
J.   “Memorial” shall mean anything intended to preserve the memory of a
person, including a monument, which may be a stone or building or something
else which is either erected or maintained to preserve the memory of a person.
 
K.   “Person” shall mean any natural person, firm, partnership, joint venture,
club, company, association, syndicate, society, business trust, organization,
institution, agency, government corporation, municipal corporation, district or
other political subdivision, corporation, limited liability company,
proprietorship, contractor, supplier, vendor, vendee, operator, or other legal
entity. It shall also include an executor, administrator, trustee, receiver or
other representative appointed according to law. Whenever the word "Person"
appears in any section of this Ordinance prescribing a penalty or fine, as to
partnerships or associations, the word shall include the partners or members
thereof, and as to corporations or limited liability company, shall include the
officers, agents or members thereof who are responsible for any violation of
this Ordinance.
 
L.   “Tomb” shall mean a vault or chamber which is partly or entirely above the
ground where remains are interred.
 
M.   “Vault” shall mean a chamber constructed of concrete or steel used to
enclose a casket.
 
N.   “Village” shall mean the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, an Illinois
municipal corporation.
 
SECTION 4:     APPLICABILITY OF THIS ORDINANCE:
 
A.   This Ordinance shall apply only to a Cemetery owned,
controlled, or operated by the Village.
 
B.    The provisions of this Ordinance shall not apply to Village
officials, or their agents or designees involved with the upgrading,
maintenance, administration, or care of a Village Cemetery.
 
C.   The provisions of this Ordinance shall not apply to police
officers or firefighting officials or officers involved in carrying
out their official duties.
 
SECTION 5: SPECIAL EXCEPTION PROVISIONS:
 
A.    Special circumstances may arise in which the literal enforcement of the
regulations, as contained in this Ordinance, may impose unnecessary hardship.
The Village Board of Trustees, therefore, reserves the right to make
exceptions, suspensions, or modifications to any of the regulations contained
in this Ordinance, without notice, and such temporary exception, suspension or
modification shall in no way be construed as affecting the general application
of such regulations.
 
B.    The Village Board of Trustees hereby expressly reserves the right to
adopt additional rules and regulations, and further expressly reserves the
right to amend, alter, or repeal any rule, regulation, section, paragraph, or
part thereof, of this Ordinance, at any time.
 
SECTION 6:    SALE OF CEMETERY LOTS; NONTRANSFERABLE:
 
A.    After the effective date of this Ordinance, Cemetery Lots within a
Cemetery shall be sold by the Village
for the purpose of burial for the purchaser of a Cemetery Lot, or his
or her immediate family. No sale shall be made to funeral directors or others,
except for those acting as an agent for an eligible purchaser. For the purpose
of this Ordinance, the term "immediate family" shall be defined as spouse,
child, stepchild, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, parent, stepparent, parent-in-
law, half or full brothers and sisters, by blood or in law relation.
 
B.    All sales and transfers of a Cemetery Lot shall be made in the form of a
cemetery quitclaim deed and signed by the Village President, or his or her
designee, and attested by the Village Clerk. The cemetery quitclaim deed shall
contain a provision that the conveyance of the Cemetery Lot is made in strict
compliance with the provisions of this Ordinance, as may be amended from time
to time, or any other regulations pertaining to the management, supervision, or
upkeep of Lots within a Cemetery.
 
C.    Cemetery Lots are nontransferable without prior written approval by the
Village. No transfer of any Lot shall be made directly by any Cemetery Lot
owner, his or her heirs, devisees, or successors to any person, unless
registered with the Village Clerk.  A Cemetery Lot may be sold
back for the original purchase price to the Village (for resale by the
Village). The original deed is required to be provided to the Village when the
Cemetery Lot is sold back to the Village.
 
D.   The Village Board of Trustees shall have the authority to place a limit
on the number of Cemetery Lots sold to a particular person, as
well as such person’s family
and relatives. Furthermore, the Village shall have the absolute right and discretion
to determine whether a particular Cemetery Lot or Lots
will be sold to a specific person and where such Cemetery Lot or Lots will
be located within the Cemetery.  Such decision shall be based on factors,
including, but not limited to, the number of vacant Cemetery Lots available and
whether family or relatives of the person seeking to purchase a Cemetery
Lot or Lots are buried adjacent or nearby the Cemetery Lot or Lots requested.
 
E.    The lawful owner of any Cemetery Lot within a Cemetery
shall promptly provide the Village Clerk with any change in that owner’s
mailing address.
 
SECTION 7: CORRECTION OF ERRORS: The Village reserves, and
shall have, the right to correct any errors that may be made by the Village
concerning interments, disinterments, or removals, or in the description,
transfer, or conveyance of any Cemetery Lot, either by requiring that a
particular vacant Cemetery Lot or Lots be conveyed back to the Village and
conveying in lieu thereof another vacant Cemetery Lot or Lots in a similar
location within the Cemetery
at issue or by refunding the money paid for the Cemetery Lot or Lots
 to the purchaser or the successor of the purchaser.  In the event that an
error involves the interment of the remains of any person, the Village
shall have the right to remove and transfer the remains so interred to
another Cemetery Lot in a similar location in the same Cemetery in
accordance with law.
 
SECTION 8: PURCHASE PRICE FOR CEMETERY LOT:
 
A.    The purchase price for each Cemetery Lot shall be established by the
Village Board of Trustees from time to time, with a copy of the purchase price
being available at the office of the Village Clerk. The purchase price shall be
paid to the Village Treasurer.
 
B.    The Village Board of Trustees may periodically increase the purchase
price of a Cemetery Lot to accommodate increased costs and needed reserve funds
for Cemetery maintenance.
 
SECTION 9: MARKERS, MEMORIALS AND MONUMENTS:
 
A.    Quality Materials. To properly perpetuate memory, all Memorials and
Monuments shall be of quality granite, marble, or other natural stone, or other
equally durable composition and be of dignified design. Makeshift
memorials will not be permitted.
 
B.    Location: All Memorials and Monuments, or other markers shall be placed
only at the head of the gravesite. Footstones are prohibited. This regulation
shall not apply to the memorials in place prior to the effective date of this
Ordinance but represents an ideal to be attained. Where continuous runners have
been installed, all Memorials and Monuments shall be placed on top the runner.
 
C.    Foundation: Where continuous runners have been installed, no monument
foundation will be required, and Memorials and Monuments shall be installed on
the runner. Where there are no runners yet installed, the foundation will be
the responsibility of the Cemetery Lot owner(s).
 
D.    Maintenance: The maintenance, repair, and upkeep of a Cemetery memorial,
monument, marker, urn, or similar item is the responsibility of the heirs or
family of the person buried at that Lot. The heirs or family of the person
buried at that Lot shall also be responsible for repairing any settling of any
such memorial, monument, marker, urn or similar item. The Village has no
responsibility or liability regarding the repair, maintenance, or upkeep
regarding any such memorial, monument, marker, urn or similar item.
 
E.    Village Reservation Right: Should any Monument or Memorial, including
any Monument or Memorial that was in place before the effective date of this
Ordinance, become unsightly, broken, moved off its proper site, dilapidated, or a safety
hazard, the Village shall have the right, at the expense
of the owner of the Cemetery Lot, to
correct the condition or remove the same. The Village shall make reasonable
attempts to contact the owner of the Cemetery Lot prior to
any such work beginning.
 
SECTION 10: RECORDS, ADMINISTRATIVE FEES, AND APPROVAL- INTERNMENT AND
DISINTERNMENT:
 
A.    The Village Clerk, and/or his or her designee shall maintain records
concerning all internments, disinternments, Cemetery Lots, and any and all
other records of the Village related to the Village Cemetery.
 
B.    No internment or disinternment shall be permitted on any Lot in the
Village Cemetery until an administrative fee of $200.00 has been paid to the
Village, which said fee being made payable to the Village Treasurer.
 
C.    No
Cemetery Lot shall be opened or closed except under the direction and control of the Village
of Dieterich or such other individual as is designated by the Village
Board. This Paragraph (B) shall not apply to any grave opening,
disinterment, or similar action which is done pursuant to a
valid court order or under the supervision and direction of local
or state health department authorities; however,
even in such cases, the Village of Dieterich shall be given at least twenty-
four (24) hours’ prior notice of when such grave opening or closing will occur.
 
SECTION 11: INTERMENT REGULATIONS:
 
A.    Cemetery Lots are for human remains only.
The following burial combinations are allowed currently per Cemetery Lot
burial (1) one coffin burial, (2) one cremation burial, (3) one coffin and one
cremation burial, or (4) two cremation burials.
 
B.    The Village shall be given no less than a 36-hour notice in advance of
any funeral. The opening and closing of Cemetery Lots shall be done by a
designee of the funeral director upon consultation with the Village.
 
C.    The Village Cemetery will be open for Interments from 8:00 a.m. until 4:
00 p.m. daily.
 
 
 
D.    When an interment is made in a Lot, the location of such interment shall
be designated by the Lot owner. Should the Lot owner fail or neglect to make
such designation, the Village reserves the right to make the Interment at a
location agreed upon by the funeral director and the Village.
 
E.    The Clerk of the Village of Dieterich and/or his or her designee,
must be satisfied, from his or her records, that the deceased person to be
buried in the Cemetery Lot is an authorized
and appropriate person for that space before any interment is
commenced or completed.
 
F.    All interments will require the use of a concrete liner or vault, which
meets all applicable laws. Said concrete liner or vault shall be installed or
constructed in each Cemetery Lot before internment.
 
G.    The interment of Cremains may be made in a Cemetery Lot in a concrete
liner or vault, which meet all applicable laws. No cremains shall be scattered
or dispersed within a Village Cemetery.
 
H.    The surface of all graves shall be kept in an orderly and neat-
appearing manner within the confines of the Cemetery Lot involved.
 
I.    In addition to being subject to the regulations as contained in this
Ordinance, all Interments are made subject to the orders and laws of properly
constituted public officials.
 
SECTION 12: DISINTERMENTS:
 
A.    No disinterment or digging up of an occupied grave shall occur until and
unless any and all permits and licenses and written
authorizations required by law for such disinterment
or digging up of an occupied grave have been obtained from any applicable state
or county agency, governmental unit or official, and a copy
of the same has been filed with the Village.
 
B.    The Village Board of Trustees shall
have the authority to refuse to allow a disinterment or the digging up of an
occupied grave (and to refuse to issue a Village disinterment permit for the
same) if the disinterment or digging up of an occupied grave is
not done pursuant to a court order, issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction, or does not have a reasonable basis.
 
C.    In addition to being subject to the regulations as contained in this
Ordinance, all Disinterment’s and removals are made subject to the orders and
laws of properly constituted public officials.
 
 
 
SECTION 13: GROUNDS MAINTENANCE:
 
A.    No live planting of trees, shrubs, plants, or flowers will be permitted,
except for any trees, shrubs plants, or flowers specifically installed and
maintained by the Village.
 
B.    No decorative rock or landscaping will be permitted in a Village
Cemetery, except for any rocked or landscaping areas installed by the Village.
 
C.   Flowers may be placed on the headstones, or in a shepherd’s hook or other
secured arrangement in close proximity to a Monument or Marker. Except for
markers, memorials, flowers, and urns expressly allowed by this Ordinance,
 and veteran flags as authorized by law, no other item (including,
but not limited to, ornaments, signs, solar lights,
trellises, statues, landscaping, bricks, stones, grave border
materials or other structures) shall be installed or maintained within a
Village Cemetery. Notwithstanding the foregoing, figurines may be placed on a
Monument, but should be glued down or permanently secured in a comparable
method. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, where
continuous runners have been installed, all secured arrangements, Memorials and
Monuments, flowers, urns, etc. shall be placed on top the runner.
 
D.    No grading, leveling, digging, mounding, excavating, or similar
alteration of ground or earth is allowed within a Village Cemetery except as
authorized by this Ordinance, or without the prior permission of the Village.
 
E.    All winter artificial wreaths and sprays will be removed by May 1.
 
F.    All summer artificial wreaths and sprays will be removed by October 1.
 
G.    Surfaces other than earth or sod are prohibited.
 
H.    All refuse of any
kind or nature including, but not limited to, dried flowers, wreaths, and
papers and plastic flower containers must be removed from the Village Cemetery,
by the heirs or family of the person buried at the
Lot, within 30 days after a burial.
 
I.    No glass containers or items are allowed.
 
J.   The Village reserves the right to remove
or trim any existing trees, plants or shrubs located within a Village
Cemetery in the interest of maintaining proper appearance and the use of the
Village Cemetery. Furthermore, the Village, and its agents, shall
have the right and authority to remove and dispose
of any and all growth, emblems, displays, containers and other
items that through decay, deterioration, damage or otherwise become or
are unsightly, a source of litter or a maintenance problem.
 
SECTION 14:  PROHIBITED USES AND ACTIVITIES: The following prohibitions
shall apply within any Village Cemetery:
 
A.    No Person shall destroy, deface, apply graffiti to, or otherwise injure
any Monument, Marker, sign, tree, or other lawful item located within a Village
Cemetery.
 
B.    No Person shall disturb the peace
or unreasonably annoy, harass, or disturb any other person who
is lawfully present on the grounds of any Village Cemetery.
 
C.   There shall be no disturbing of the peace or engaging
in any loud or boisterous conduct. Furthermore, there
shall be no unlawful interference with or disruption
of a lawful funeral or funeral procession.
 
D.    No vehicle shall be permitted to drive on any portion of a Village
Cemetery except the designated roads or drives.
 
E.   There shall be no possession or consumption of any alcoholic beverage in a
Village Cemetery.
 
F.    There shall be no music, playing of any radio, or the use
of any amplification device or similar item, except during a burial ceremony or
funeral or a military ceremony.
 
G.    There shall be no littering or dumping in a Village Cemetery.
 
H.   There shall be no fires, candles, or open flames.
 
I.    There shall be no domestic animals of any kind or pets allowed within a
Village Cemetery provided, however, that this prohibition shall not apply to
service dogs or other animals.
 
J.    No firearms or archery arrows shall be discharged or shot except that
military or other veterans’ organizations may carry arms
for the purpose of firing over the grave at the burial of a member.
 
SECTION 15:  CEMETERY HOURS: Unless otherwise specified by the Village Board of
Trustees, a Village Cemetery shall be closed during the hours from 9:
00 p.m. until 7:
00 a.m. the next morning. During those hours, no person shall be present in a Village
Cemetery. Such prohibition on being present in a Village Cemetery
during the time when a Village Cemetery is closed shall not apply to any
Village official, a person accompanied by the Village official, or any law
enforcement or firefighting official when engaged in the lawful duties of
any such office or position.
 
SECTION 16:  DISCLAIMER OF VILLAGE LIABILITY AND RESPONSIBILITY:
Every Person who enters, remains in and travels within a Village
Cemetery does so at their own risk. The Village is not responsible for
any injury, accident or other calamity that might occur to any
person present in a Village Cemetery.  Furthermore, the Village is not
responsible for any damage or vandalism to, theft of or deterioration of any
burial monument, headstone, flower, urn, or other item placed at or near a
Cemetery Lot, burial site or anywhere in a Village Cemetery.  The purchaser
or transferee of any Cemetery Lot or the equivalent (and
all subsequent transferees, assigns, heirs, or beneficiaries)
hereby releases, waives, indemnifies, and holds harmless the Village for, from
and against any injury, damages, causes of action, claims, costs and expenses
associated with, relating to and/or involving the Cemetery Lot
or similar right, any headstone,
monument or similar items, and any matter related to the Cemetery involved.
Such waiver, release and hold harmless provision shall apply not only to the
Village, but also as to all Village employee, officer, official or agent.
 
SECTION 17:  AUTHORITY  OF THE VILLAGE TO REMOVE UNAUTHORIZED OR UNLAWFUL
 ITEMS FROM A VILLAGE CEMETERY: Any monument, marker, planting,
trellis, personal item, urn, flowers or foliage (whether real or artificial),
structure, flag (except for lawful veterans flags), or other item that has
been placed, installed, left or maintained in any Village
Cemetery in violation of this Ordinance, any Village rule or regulation
regarding Village Cemeteries, or any county, state or
federal law, statute or regulation may be removed by the Village from the
Village Cemetery at any time and destroyed or disposed of by the Village
without any prior notice to, permission from, or liability or
obligation to the person or persons who left, installed, maintained or
kept such item in the Village Cemetery. No such item (including, but not
limited to, a monument, marker, planting, solar light,
trellis, personal item, urn, flowers or foliage,
structure, flag, or similar item) can be installed, placed, maintained, or
kept in a Village Cemetery unless expressly authorized by this Ordinance
or a written rule or policy of the Village.  Even if such an item is authorized
to be installed, kept, maintained, or left in a Village Cemetery,
the Village shall still have the discretion to remove any such item at any time
and dispose of the same without prior notice to, consent from or liability
to the Person who installed, maintained or left such item in a Village
Cemetery.
 
SECTION 18: PENALTIES: Any Person which violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or
refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this Ordinance shall, upon
conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of a civil ordinance violation and shall
be fined not less than Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250.00) nor more than Seven
Hundred Fifty Dollars ($750.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be
deemed to be committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues. In addition to any fine, the Village may seek injunctive and
declaratory relief directing the violator(s) to cure the violation, and the
Village may revoke any permit authorized and issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
provision of this Ordinance, by any officer, director, manager or other agent
or employee of any Person, shall be deemed and held to be the act of such
Person, and the Person shall be punishable in the same manner as if the act or
omission had been done or omitted by him personally.
 
SECTION 19: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
 
A.   Invalidity. In the event a court of competent jurisdiction declares any
particular provision of this ordinance to be invalid or unenforceable, the
remaining provisions of this Ordinance shall be construed to be valid and
enforceable. The invalidity of any part of this Ordinance shall not affect any
other part or parts thereof.
 
B.   Effective Date. This Ordinance shall be in full effect from and after
passage and approval as provided by law.
 
C.   Any ordinance of the Village of Dieterich contrary to the terms and
conditions of this Ordinance shall be deemed to be repealed.
 
   Presented, passed and approved this ________ day of ___________________,
2025.
 
   Published in pamphlet form this ________ day of ____________________, 2025.
Carrie Galbraith   _________         
Stacy Welter      _________   
Pamela Hartke      _________
Frederick Bray   _________
Berdeena Leturno   _________
Matt Flowers      _________
 
AYES:      ________         
NAYS:   ________
 
                  VILLAGE OF DIETERICH, ILLINOIS
 
 
                                                         ___________________________________                        Brad
Hardiek, President
 
ATTEST:
 
 
____________________________________
Brittny Gipson, Village Clerk
 
 
 
 
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
DIETERICH VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the Village Board of Trustees, this Code is hereby declared to
be and shall hereafter constitute the official Village Code of Dieterich. This
Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the DIETERICH VILLAGE CODE and
is hereby published by authority of the Village Board of Trustees and shall be
supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the Village as
provided in section
1-1-3  of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title headings, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this Code by title in any legal documents. (2017 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of the
State as the ordinances of the Village of general and permanent effect, except
the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2017 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this Code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
numbers of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifier, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this Code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this Code.
(2017 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
Village Board of Trustees. The Village Clerk shall see that the replacement
pages are properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the Office of
the Clerk. Any person having in his custody an official copy of this Code shall
make every effort to maintain said Code in an up to date and efficient manner.
He shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such
are delivered to him or made available to him through the Office of the Village
Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the Village and shall
be returned to the Office of the Clerk when directed so to do by order of the
Village Board of Trustees. (2017 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Court Proceedings
1-2-3: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the Village passed prior to the adoption of this Code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this Code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
A.   Tax levy ordinances;
B.   Appropriation ordinances;
C.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
D.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations;
E.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a contract
or the issuance of warrants;
F.   Salary ordinances;
G.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places;
H.   Improvement ordinances;
I.   Bond ordinances;
J.   Ordinances relating to elections;
K.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or
from the Village; and
L.   All special ordinances. (2017 Code)
1-2-2: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to
any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either by
express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any
new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the Village herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the Village under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this Code. (2017 Code)
1-2-3: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code,
or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by reference, is for any
reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this Code, or any codes or portions
of codes adopted herein by reference. The Village Board of Trustees hereby
declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one (1) or
more sections, subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2017 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the Village President and Board of Trustees may
be fully carried out.
B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
C.   Delegation Of Authority: To the extent not prohibited by law, whenever a
provision appears requiring the head of a department or some other Village
officer and/or employee to do some act or perform some duty, it is to be
construed to authorize the head of the department or other Village officer and/
or employee to designate, delegate and authorize any subordinate or other
Village officer or employee to perform the required act or perform the duty
unless the terms of the provision or section specify otherwise.
D.   Gender: The use of any gender based pronoun should not be construed to be
gender biased, but is only used for grammatical simplicity.
E.   May; Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is mandatory.
F.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
G.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one (1) person and thing.
H.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the Village of Dieterich".
I.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
J.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the Village
has been changed in the content of this Code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to Village ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2017 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES: Unless otherwise indicated, the Village Board of Trustees
of the Village of Dieterich.
   CODE: The Village Code of the Village of Dieterich.
   COUNTY: The County of Effingham, State of Illinois.
   MEETING: Any gathering, whether in person or by video or audio conference,
telephone calls, electronic means (such as, without limitation, electronic
mail, electronic chat and instant messaging), or other means of contemporary
interactive communication, of a majority of a quorum of the members of a public
body held for the purpose of discussing public business or such other
definition as shall be contained within the State statutes. This definition
shall apply to any existing Village of Dieterich resolutions, ordinances or
rules.
   PERSON:
   A.   Unless otherwise indicated, any individual, firm, partnership, limited
partnership, organization, corporation, limited liability company, association,
proprietorship or other legal entity. The term shall also include an executor,
administrator, trustee, receiver or other representative appointed according to
law.
   B.   Whenever the word "person" appears in any section of this Code
prescribing a penalty or fine, as to partnerships or associations, the word
shall include the partners or members thereof, and as to corporations or
limited liability companies, shall include the officers, agents or members
thereof who are responsible for any violation of this Code.
   STATE: The State of Illinois.
   VILLAGE: The Village of Dieterich, County of Effingham, State of Illinois.
(Ord. 813-16, 2-1-2016; amd. 2017 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2017
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Nonliability Of Officers And Employees
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
A.   General Penalty Imposed:
   1.   Fine; Imprisonment: Unless specifically provided elsewhere in this
Code, any person found to have been in violation of any of the terms and
provisions of this Code shall be fined in an amount not more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for any one (1) offense. No imprisonment for failure to
pay such fine, penalty or cost shall exceed six (6) months for each offense.
Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed to be a separate offense.
   2.   Additional Penalties: In addition to the fine described in subsection
A1 of this section, the Circuit Court may impose a period of "conditional
discharge", as defined in 730 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-1-4, or "court
supervision", as defined in 730 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-1-21, for a
period of up to six (6) months, an order of restitution, an order to perform
community service, an order to complete an education program and/or any other
appropriate penalties or conditions authorized in any section of this Code or
stand alone ordinance or any conditions for conditional discharge set forth in
730 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-6-3 or for court supervision in 730 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/5-6-3.1, as the foregoing are amended from time to time.
   3.   Costs And Fees: Unless prohibited by law, any person violating the
terms or provisions of this Code shall be subject, in addition to the penalties
set out in this subsection A, to the payment of court costs and reasonable
attorney fees.
   4.   Default In Payment: A default in the payment of a fine or any
installment of a fine may be collected by any means authorized for the
collection of monetary judgments. The Village Attorney may retain attorneys and
private collection agents for the purpose of collecting any default in payment
of any fine or installment of that fine. Any fees or costs incurred by the
Village with respect to attorneys or private collection agents retained by the
Village Attorney under this subsection shall be charged to the offender.
B.   Acts Consistent With Criminal Laws Of State: If, by the terms of this Code
or any ordinance, an act that would be consistent with the criminal laws of the
State, is declared to be a misdemeanor, the penalty therefor shall be for a
period of incarceration in a penal institution other than a penitentiary not to
exceed six (6) months, and the matter shall be prosecuted under the rules of
criminal procedure of the State, and the Village shall be required to establish
guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. This subsection shall not apply to Village
Code provisions adopted pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-5-1, 5/
11-5-2, 5/11-5-3, 5/11-5-4, 5/11-5-5, 5/11-5-6, 5/11-40-1, 5/11-40-2, 5/11-40-
2a, 5/11-40-3, 5/11-80-9 and 5/11-80-16.
C.   Limitation; Compliance With Statute: The provisions of subsection A of
this section notwithstanding, no penalty shall be greater than that established
by State statute for the same offense. (2017 Code)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this Code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section unless otherwise indicated. Any person
convicted of a violation of any section of this Code where a duty is prescribed
or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a continuing nature is
forbidden or is declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such
duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this Code.
B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this Code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one (1) recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do
any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this Code and there
shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2017 Code)
1-4-3: NONLIABILITY OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intent of
the Village Board of Trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (2017 Code)
CHAPTER 5
MISCELLANEOUS ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Corporate Seal
1-5-2: Public Meetings
1-5-1: CORPORATE SEAL:
A.   Description: The Village has and keeps a Corporate Seal, made in
appropriate form to make an impression upon legal papers, and to be of circular
shape, with the words "Corporate Seal of the Village of Dieterich" engraved
upon the face or part of the Seal making the impression therefrom so that said
words are properly impressed upon papers sealed in the name of the Village.
(1945 Code § 4-1)
B.   Custodian: The Village Clerk shall be custodian of the Corporate Seal and
shall safely keep the same and impress said Seal upon all records, documents
and legal papers signed in the name of the Village, and which, by law, require
the Seal of the Village thereon. (1945 Code § 4-2)
1-5-2: PUBLIC MEETINGS:
A.   Electronic Attendance:
   1.   Rules Adopted: The Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts the
Electronic Attendance at Meetings Rules, on file in the Village, that permits a
member of the public body to attend any meeting of a public body as defined in
the Open Meetings Act via electronic means. (Ord. 557-07, 2-5-2007, eff. 2-5-
2007)
B.   Public Participation Policy: Effective on and after March 1, 2016, the
Village Board of Trustees, and each and every board or commission appointed by
or otherwise under the jurisdiction of said Board of Trustees, shall adopt the
Public Participation Policy, on file in the Village, that permits a person to
participate and speak at any meeting of the "public body" as defined in the
Open Meetings Act; provided, that such participation is in compliance with the
policy and any applicable laws. (Ord. 813-16, 2-1-2016)
CHAPTER 6
VILLAGE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Elective Officials
1-6-2: Powers And Duties
1-6-3: Meetings
1-6-4: Rules And Order Of Business
1-6-5: Committees
1-6-1: ELECTIVE OFFICIALS:
There shall be elected as Village officers, at the times and in the manner
provided by the Statutes of the State, a Village President and six (6) Trustees
who shall constitute the Village Board. (1945 Code § 13-1; amd. 2017 Code)
1-6-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Village President shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Village, and
the President and Trustees shall exercise the functions and have the powers and
duties prescribed by the Statutes of the State. (1945 Code § 13-2)
1-6-3: MEETINGS:
A.   Regular Meetings: The Village Board, consisting of the Village President
and Trustees, shall hold a regular meeting each month, to be held at the
Village Hall on the first and third Monday of each month, unless otherwise
established, at six thirty o'clock (6:30) P.M.
B.   Adjourned Meetings: Regular meetings may be adjourned from time to time at
the will of the majority.
C.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called at any time by the
Village President or by any three (3) members of the Village Board. Written
notice of the time of said special meeting and the purpose for which called
shall be given all members at least forty eight (48) hours prior to such
meeting; provided, any member who is present thereby waives notice, or he may,
in writing, waive notice at any time prior to the meeting. (1945 Code § 17-1;
amd. 2017 Code)
D.   Presiding Officer: The Village President shall preside at all meetings
when present. In his absence, the majority of the Board of Trustees present may
select a President Pro Tem as presiding officer.
E.   Attendance: It is the duty of all members to attend each meeting unless
ill or unavoidably absent. (1945 Code § 17-1)
1-6-4: RULES AND ORDER OF BUSINESS:
A.   Order Of Business: The President shall call the meeting to order at the
appointed time, and the order of business shall be as follows: (1945 Code § 17-
2)
   1.   Call to order; Pledge of Allegiance.
   2.   Roll call.
   3.   Introduction of visitors.
   4.   Routine business.
   5.   Unfinished business.
   6.   New business.
   7.   Comments.
   8.   Closed executive session.
   9.   Open session.
   10.   Adjournment. (1945 Code § 17-2; amd. 2017 Code)
Provided, that, by unanimous consent, any business may be taken up and
considered out of the above order. (1945 Code § 17-2)
B.   Addressing The Board:
   1.   Any member desiring to be heard upon any question before the Board
shall address the presiding officer and obtain recognition.
   2.   Every member desiring to discuss any question shall be heard; provided,
that the presiding officer shall determine the order of recognition, but shall
not permit any member to speak twice, until all desiring to be heard have been
recognized. No member shall speak more than twice on the same question unless
by unanimous consent.
   3.   In speaking, no member shall indulge in personalities or in abusive
language, nor repeat matters already fully discussed, nor discuss matters not
in issue, and upon him doing so, the President may call such member out of
order and command him to cease any improper discussion.
   4.   The presiding officer shall have charge of the meeting, and upon making
his ruling on any question, it shall be observed by all, unless such ruling is
appealed by some member to the Board as a whole, and the presiding officer's
decision be reversed by a majority vote. (1945 Code § 17-3)
C.   Motions And Voting: The presiding officer shall open the question for
discussion, and after discussion, if any, a motion shall be made and seconded,
the roll of members shall be called, and upon roll call, each member shall vote
unless excused by the presiding officer, with the approval of a majority of the
Board. Upon the request of any member, any motion made shall be reduced to
writing. The Village Clerk shall keep a record of the ayes and nays on all
motions, ordinances and resolutions. (1945 Code § 17-4; amd. 2017 Code)
D.   Adjournment: A motion to adjourn shall always be in order and shall be
voted upon without debate. (1945 Code § 17-6)
E.   Robert's Rules Of Order Applies: Upon questions of order and procedure not
specifically covered herein, "Robert's Rules of Order" shall govern. (1945 Code
§ 17-3)
1-6-5: COMMITTEES:
A.   Committees Established: The following committees of the Village Board
shall be appointed by the President, each to consist of two (2) members and an
alternate, the first named to be the Chair of the committee:
   Building and Business Expansion.
   Cemetery.
   Finance.
   Park.
   Personnel.
   Streets and Alleys.
   Water and Sewer. (1945 Code § 17-7; amd. 2017 Code)
B.   Special Committees: In addition, the President may appoint special
committees to supervise, oversee, or investigate and report upon special
matters of public welfare, public improvements, or of general interest arising
not specifically covered by the duties of the regular committees set out in
subsection A of this section.
C.   Village President Ex Officio Member: The Village President shall be ex
officio a member of all committees, shall be entitled to take part in all their
meetings and proceedings, and shall advise and consult with them on all
committee matters, but shall have no vote on disputed questions among the
committee members.
D.   Duties: The Village President shall refer all matters requiring care,
consideration, or investigation to the appropriate committee, which shall
thereupon take charge of such matter, investigate or supervise the same as
required, and report its proceedings and actions to the Board. Provided, no
committee shall have the power to incur financial liability against the
Village, make purchases of materials or employ labor unless authorized to do so
by action of the Village Board. (1945 Code § 17-7)
CHAPTER 7
VILLAGE OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-7-1: Residency
1-7-2: Oath And Bond
1-7-3: Appointive Village Officers
1-7-4: Participation In IML Risk Management Association
1-7-5: Personnel Policy And Procedures Adopted
1-7-6: Travel Reimbursement Policy Adopted
1-7-7: Expense Reimbursement Policy
1-7-1: RESIDENCY:
All elected and appointed Village officers shall have been legal residents of
the Village for at least one (1) year prior to their election or appointment,
except the Village Clerk, Village Treasurer, Village Attorney, and Village
Engineer.
(Ord. 1191-2025, 4-7-2025)
1-7-2: OATH AND BOND:
A.   Oath Of Office: Every officer, before entering upon his duties, shall take
and subscribe the oath of office, that he will fairly and impartially perform
the duties of such office and comply with all laws of the United States of
America, the State of Illinois, and the ordinances of the Village, which oath
shall be filed with the Village Clerk.
B.   Bond: The Village Clerk shall file his bond of fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) with the Village Treasurer, and the Village Treasurer shall file
his bond of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) with the Village Clerk, with
security to be approved by the Village Board, before entering upon the duties
of their respective offices. Provided, that any other Village officer may be
required to file bond for the faithful performance of his duties, by resolution
of the Village Board. (1945 Code § 13-16; amd. 2017 Code)
1-7-3: APPOINTIVE VILLAGE OFFICERS:
A.   Officers Enumerated: There may be appointed at the beginning of each
fiscal year the following Village officers: Village Clerk, Village Treasurer,
Village Attorney, Village Engineer and Village Economic Development
Coordinator.
B.   Term Of Office; Removals: The term of all appointed officers of the
Village shall be for one (1) year, except as may otherwise be provided by law,
or as otherwise set forth herein, subject to the right of the Village Board of
Trustees to remove or discharge any officer or employee as provided by law, and
provided also, that if the Village Board of Trustees should discontinue or
consolidate any office or discontinue any position of employment, the
appointment is subject to such further action of the Village Board of Trustees
in that respect.
C.   Powers And Duties: The appointive officers of the Village shall have the
powers and duties ascribed to them by the Village Board of Trustees. (1945 Code
§ 13-5; amd. Res. 315, 9-5-2000; 2017 Code)
1-7-4: PARTICIPATION IN IML RISK MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION:
A.   The Village Board of Trustees hereby authorizes and approves membership in
the Illinois Municipal League Risk Management Association and directs the
President and Clerk to execute an Intergovernmental Cooperation Contract with
the Illinois Municipal League Risk Management Association for membership for a
period of one (1) year beginning the date the Association commences providing
risk coverage to its members and each year thereafter unless this section is
repealed.
B.   The Village hereby agrees to contribute to the Association a sum of money
to be determined by the Association at the time of application based on the
needs of the Association and the loss experience of the Village, which sum
shall constitute the cost of the Village's first year contribution for
membership in the Association. Membership contributions for second and
subsequent years shall be calculated in accordance with the loss experience of
the Village and the needs of the Association including total losses and
expenditures of the Self-Insured Retention Fund of the Association. (Ord. 511-
03, 11-3-2003; amd. 2017 Code)
1-7-5: PERSONNEL POLICY AND PROCEDURES ADOPTED:
The Village "Personnel Policies and Procedures" is hereby adopted by reference
and is on file in the Office of the Village Clerk for public use and
inspection. (2017 Code)
1-7-6: TRAVEL REIMBURSEMENT POLICY ADOPTED:
Effective January 1, 2017, the Policy Governing Reimbursement of Employee and
Officer Travel, Meal, and Lodging Expenses of the Village of Dieterich,
Illinois, a copy of which is on file in the Village as Exhibit A and
incorporated herein by this reference as if fully set forth, is hereby adopted
and approved. The Village Clerk is hereby authorized to amend such policy, as
may be required, from time to time, to maintain compliance with the provisions
of the Local Government Travel Expense Control Act. (Ord. 837-2016, 12-5-2016)
1-7-7: EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT POLICY:
   A.   Purpose Statement.
      1.   The Village of Dieterich, Illinois, (hereinafter referred to as the
“Village”) has developed this Expense Reimbursement Policy (hereinafter
referred to as the “Policy”) pursuant to the requirements contained within
Section 9.5 of the Illinois Wage Payment and Collection Act (820 ILCS 115/9.5).
It is the policy of the Village to reimburse employees for all necessary
expenditures or losses incurred by the employee within the employee’s scope of
employment and directly related to services performed for the Village. The
Village is not responsible for losses due to an employee’s own negligence,
losses due to normal wear or losses due to theft unless the theft was a result
of the Village’s negligence.
      2.   The provisions of this Policy will apply only insofar as they do not
conflict with any state or federal law. Furthermore, Municipal officers and
officials may be subject to additional conditions or restrictions for
reimbursement of expenses related to their specific offices and other state
statutes or local ordinances.
   B.    Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
Policy, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this Section, except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
 
ACT:      Illinois Public Act 100-0554.
EMPLOYEE: Any individual in the employment of the Village of Dieterich,
          Illinois.
POLICY:   This Expense Reimbursement Policy.
VILLAGE:  The Village of Dieterich, Illinois.
 
   C.   Categories of Expenditures.
      1.   “Authorized Expenditures” may include: cell phone expenses, laptop,
tablet, mileage, tools, equipment, Internet, meals, registration fees, training
expenses, tolls and parking fees, provided that said expenditures are incurred
on behalf of the Village.
      2.   “Unauthorized Expenditures” include, but are not limited to, the
following: home Internet service, personal cell phone expenses, mileage
incurred on personal vehicles, alcoholic beverages, and entertainment expenses.
      3.   Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, any
expenditure that is not requested and approved, in accordance with this Policy,
prior to purchase is deemed an Unauthorized Expenditure and may not be
reimbursed.
      4.   Furthermore, notwithstanding anything contained herein to the
contrary, reimbursement of travel, meal, or lodging expenses incurred by
Employees and officers of the Village shall be subject to the terms and
conditions contained in the Policy Governing Reimbursement of Employee and
Officer Travel, Meal, and Lodging Expenses of the Village of Dieterich,
Illinois, adopted pursuant to the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, Ordinance No.
837-2016, An Ordinance Establishing a Travel Reimbursement Policy in Accordance
with the Local Government Travel Expense Control Act, the Village of Dieterich,
Illinois.
   D.   Pre-approval required for Authorized Expenditures.
      1.   An Employee shall submit a written request to the Village President
to purchase any of proposed Authorized Expenditure, as detailed in Section 3 of
this Policy, at least three business days in advance of incurring the expense
on the “Expense Reimbursement Form” (attached hereto). Following approval of
the expense, the Employee will be reimbursed as provided in Section 5 of this
Policy. If the expense is not approved following a written request, the
employee will not be entitled to reimbursement.
      2.   In the event that an expense is not pre-approved, reimbursement will
be subject to the discretion of the Village Board of Trustees.
   E.   Reimbursement Procedure for Authorized Expenditures.
      1.   An Employee shall submit an “Expense Reimbursement Form” (attached
to the ordinance codified herein) along with appropriate supporting
documentation not later than 30 calendar days after incurring the expense.
Where supporting documentation is nonexistent, missing or lost, the Employee
shall submit a signed statement regarding any such receipts.
      2.   An Employee will not be entitled to reimbursement if the Employee
has failed to comply with this Expense Reimbursement Policy. (Ord. 954, 2019,
5-6-2019)
CHAPTER 8
ETHICS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Definitions
1-8-2: Ethics Advisor
1-8-3: Ethics Commission
1-8-4: Prohibited Political Activities
1-8-5: Gifts
1-8-6: Complaint Procedure
1-8-7: Penalties
1-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall be given the
definitions provided in this section:
   CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE: Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any Federal, State, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of presidential or vice
presidential electors, but does not include activities: a) relating to the
support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or administrative action;
b) relating to collective bargaining; or c) that are otherwise in furtherance
of the person's official duties.
   CANDIDATE: A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for
nomination or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill
a vacancy in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot
at a regular election, as defined in section 1-3 of the Election Code 1 .
   COLLECTIVE BARGAINING: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in
section 3 of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act 2 .
   COMPENSATED TIME: With respect to an employee, any time worked by or
credited to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement
imposed as a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this
chapter, does not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal
time, compensatory time off or period when the employee is on a leave of
absence. With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed,
"compensated time" includes any period of time when the officer is on premises
under the control of the employer and any other time when the officer or
employee is executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
   COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an
employee to compensate, in whole or in part, for time worked in excess of the
minimum work time required of that employee as a condition of his or her
employment.
   CONTRIBUTION: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section
 9-1.4 of the Election Code 1 .
   EMPLOYEE: A person employed by the Village of Dieterich, whether on a full
time or part time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to
the direction and control of an employer with regard to the material details of
how the work is to be performed, but does not include an independent
contractor.
   EMPLOYER: The Village of Dieterich.
   GIFT: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance,
or other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee. The value of the gift may be further defined by rules
adopted by the Ethics Commission.
   LEAVE OF ABSENCE: Any period during which an employee does not receive: a)
compensation for employment; b) service credit toward pension benefits; and c)
health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
   OFFICER: A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created
by statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
   POLITICAL ACTIVITY: Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities: a) relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action; b) relating to collective bargaining; or
c) that are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
   POLITICAL ORGANIZATION: A party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the State Board of Elections or a County Clerk under
section 9-3 of the Election Code 4 , but only with regard to those activities
that require filing with the State Board of Elections or a County Clerk.
   PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY:
   A.   Preparing for, organizing, or participating in any political meeting,
political rally, political demonstration, or other political event.
   B.   Soliciting contributions including, but not limited to, the purchase of
or selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any political
fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event.
   C.   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document or
report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.
   D.   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   E.   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters in
an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   F.   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   G.   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
   H.   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
   I.   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office in
that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
   J.   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires.
   K.   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.
   L.   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   M.   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or against
any referendum question.
   N.   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention.
   O.   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
   PROHIBITED SOURCE: Any person or entity who:
   A.   Is seeking official action: 1) by an officer; or 2) by an employee; or
3) by the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   B.   Does business or seeks to do business: 1) with the officer; or 2) with
an employee; or 3) with the officer or another employee directing that
employee;
   C.   Conducts activities regulated: 1) by the officer; or 2) by an employee;
or 3) by the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   D.   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or
nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee; or
   E.   Is an agent of, a spouse of or an immediate family member who is living
with a "prohibited source". (Ord. 516-04, 5-3-2004; amd. 2017 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 10 ILCS 5/1-3.
2 2. 5 ILCS 315/3.
1 1. 10 ILCS 5/9-1.4.
4 2. 10 ILCS 5/9-3.
1-8-2: ETHICS ADVISOR:
A.   Position Created: The Village President, with the advice and consent of
the Village Board of Trustees, shall designate an Ethics Advisor for the
Village. The duties of the Ethics Advisor may be delegated to an officer or
employee of the Village unless the position has been created as an office by
the Village.
B.   Duties: The Ethics Advisor shall provide guidance to the officers and
employees of the Village concerning the interpretation of and compliance with
the provisions of this chapter and the State ethics laws. The Ethics Advisor
shall perform such other duties as may be delegated by the Village Board of
Trustees. (Ord. 516-04, 5-3-2004)
1-8-3: ETHICS COMMISSION:
A.   Created; Appointment; Restrictions: There is hereby created a Commission
to be known as the ETHICS COMMISSION OF VILLAGE OF DIETERICH. The Commission
shall be comprised of three (3) members appointed by the Village President,
with the advice and consent of the Village Board of Trustees. No person shall
be appointed as a member of the Commission who is related, either by blood or
by marriage up to the degree of first cousin, to any elected officer of the
Village.
B.   Terms Of Office: At the first meeting of the Commission, the initial
appointees shall draw lots to determine their initial terms. Two (2)
Commissioners shall serve two (2) year terms, and the third Commissioner shall
serve a one (1) year term. Thereafter, all Commissioners shall be appointed to
two (2) year terms. Commissioners may be reappointed to serve subsequent terms.
C.   Organization: At the first meeting of the Commission, the Commissioners
shall choose a Chairperson from their number. Meetings shall be held at the
call of the Chairperson or any two (2) Commissioners. A quorum shall consist of
two (2) Commissioners, and official action by the Commission shall require the
affirmative vote of two (2) members.
D.   Removals And Vacancies: The Village President, with the advice and consent
of the Village Board of Trustees, may remove a Commissioner in case of
incompetency, neglect of duty or malfeasance in office after service on the
Commissioner by certified mail, return receipt requested, of a copy of the
written charges against the Commissioner and after providing an opportunity to
be heard in person or by counsel upon not less than ten (10) days' notice.
Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as original appointments.
E.   Powers And Duties: The Commission shall have the following powers and
duties:
   1.   To promulgate procedures and rules governing the performance of its
duties and the exercise of its powers.
   2.   Upon receipt of a signed, notarized, written complaint to investigate,
conduct hearings and deliberations, issue recommendations for disciplinary
actions, impose fines in accordance with section
1-8-7 of this chapter and refer violations of section
1-8-4 or
1-8-5 of this chapter to the appropriate attorney for prosecution. The
Commission shall, however, act only upon the receipt of a written complaint
alleging a violation of this chapter and not upon its own prerogative.
   3.   To receive information from the public pertaining to its investigations
and to require additional information and documents from persons who may have
violated the provisions of this chapter.
   4.   To compel the attendance of witnesses and to compel the production of
books and papers pertinent to an investigation. It is the obligation of all
officers and employees of the Village to cooperate with the Commission during
the course of its investigations. Failure or refusal to cooperate with requests
by the Commission shall constitute grounds for discipline or discharge.
   5.   The powers and duties of the Commission are limited to matters clearly
within the purview of this chapter. (Ord. 516-04, 5-3-2004)
1-8-4: PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES:
A.   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any compensated time, as defined in section
1-8-1 of this chapter.
B.   No officer or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources
of the Village in connection with any prohibited political activity.
C.   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any other
officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity: 1) as part of
that officer's or employee's duties; 2) as a condition of employment; or 3)
during any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or personal time
off).
D.   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in any
prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
E.   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for an
officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this chapter.
F.   No person either: 1) in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment; or 2) in a position the salary for which is
paid in whole or in part by Federal funds and that is subject to the Federal
Standards for a Merit System of Personnel Administration applicable to grant-
in-aid programs shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club. (Ord. 516-04, 5-3-
2004)
1-8-5: GIFTS:
A.   Gift Ban: Except as permitted by this section, no officer or employee, and
no spouse of or immediate family member living with any officer or employee
(collectively referred to herein as "recipients") shall intentionally solicit
or accept any gift from any prohibited source, as defined in section
1-8-1 of this chapter, or which is otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance. No
prohibited source shall intentionally offer or make a gift that violates this
subsection.
B.   Exceptions:
   1.   Subsection A of this section is not applicable to the following:
      a.   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the same
conditions as for the general public.
      b.   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse or
immediate family member, pays the fair market value.
      c.   Any:
         (1)   Contribution that is lawfully made under the Election Code; or
         (2)   Activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a
political organization or candidate.
      d.   Educational materials and missions.
      e.   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business.
      f.   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the
individual's spouse and the individual's fiance or fiancee.
      g.   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient, or his or her spouse or immediate family member,
and not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as:
         (1)   The history of the relationship between the individual giving
the gift and the recipient of the gift, including any previous exchange of
gifts between those individuals;
         (2)   Whether, to the actual knowledge of the recipient, the
individual who gave the gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax
deduction or business reimbursement for the gift; and
         (3)   Whether, to the actual knowledge of the recipient, the
individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same or similar
gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate family
members.
      h.   Food or refreshments not exceeding seventy five dollars ($75.00) per
person in value on a single calendar day; provided, that the food or
refreshments are: 1) consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared; or 2) catered. For the purposes of this subsection, "catered" means
food or refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by
any means.
      i.   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances.
      j.   Intra-governmental and inter-governmental gifts. For the purpose of
this subsection, "intra-governmental gift" means any gift given to an officer
or employee from another officer or employee, and "inter-governmental gift"
means any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of
another governmental entity.
      k.   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
      l.   Any item or items from any one (1) prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
   2.   Each of the exceptions listed in this subsection B is mutually
exclusive and independent of every other.
C.   Disposition Of Gifts: An officer or employee, or his or her spouse or an
immediate family member living with the officer or employee, does not violate
this chapter if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift
from a prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to
its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under
section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as now or hereafter
amended, renumbered, or succeeded. (Ord. 516-04, 5-3-2004)
1-8-6: COMPLAINT PROCEDURE:
A.   Filing Complaints: Complaints alleging a violation of this chapter shall
be filed with the Ethics Commission within one (1) year after the alleged
violation.
B.   Notice Of Complaint: Within three (3) business days after the receipt of a
complaint, the Commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt
requested, a notice to the respondent that a complaint has been filed against
him or her and a copy of the complaint. The Commission shall send by certified
mail, return receipt requested, a confirmation of the receipt of the complaint
to the complainant within three (3) business days after receipt by the
Commission. The notices to the respondent and the complainant shall also advise
them of the date, time, and place of the meeting to determine the sufficiency
of the complaint and to establish whether probable cause exists to proceed.
C.   Review Of Complaint; Decision On Validity:
   1.   Upon not less than forty eight (48) hours' public notice, the
Commission shall meet to review the sufficiency of the complaint and, if the
complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of this chapter, to
determine whether there is probable cause, based on the evidence presented by
the complainant, to proceed. The meeting may be closed to the public to the
extent authorized by the Open Meetings Act. The Commission shall issue notice
to the complainant and the respondent of the Commission's ruling on the
sufficiency of the complaint and, if necessary, on probable cause to proceed
within seven (7) business days after receiving the complaint.
   2.   If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of section
1-8-5 of this chapter and there is a determination of probable cause, then the
Commission's notice to the parties shall include a hearing date scheduled
within four (4) weeks after the complaint's receipt. Alternatively, the
Commission may elect to notify in writing the attorney designated by the
Corporate Authorities to prosecute such actions and request that the complaint
be adjudicated judicially. If the complaint is deemed not sufficient to allege
a violation or if there is no determination of probable cause, then the
Commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to
the parties of the decision to dismiss the complaint, and that notice shall be
made public. (Ord. 516-04, 5-3-2004)
   3.   If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of section
1-8-4 of this chapter, then the Commission shall notify in writing the Village
Attorney to prosecute such actions and shall transmit to the attorney the
complaint and all additional documents in the custody of the Commission
concerning the alleged violation. (Ord. 516-04, 5-3-2004; amd. 2017 Code)
D.   Hearing: On the scheduled date and upon at least forty eight (48) hours'
public notice of the meeting, the Commission shall conduct a hearing on the
complaint and shall allow both parties the opportunity to present testimony and
evidence. The hearing may be closed to the public only if authorized by the
Open Meetings Act.
E.   Decisions And Recommendation: Within thirty (30) days after the date the
hearing or any recessed hearing is concluded, the Commission shall either: 1)
dismiss the complaint; or 2) issue a recommendation for discipline to the
alleged violator and to the Village President, or impose a fine upon the
violator, or both. The particular findings in the case, any recommendation for
discipline, and any fine imposed shall be a matter of public information.
F.   Demand Of Public Hearing:
   1.   If the hearing was closed to the public, the respondent may file a
written demand for a public hearing on the complaint within seven (7) business
days after the issuance of the recommendation for discipline or imposition of a
fine, or both. The filing of the demand shall stay the enforcement of the
recommendation or fine.
   2.   Within fourteen (14) days after receiving the demand, the Commission
shall conduct a public hearing on the complaint upon at least forty eight (48)
hours' public notice of the hearing and allow both parties the opportunity to
present testimony and evidence. Within seven (7) days thereafter, the
Commission shall publicly issue a final recommendation to the alleged violator
and to the Village President or impose a fine upon the violator, or both. (Ord.
516-04, 5-3-2004)
G.   Complaints Filed Near Election Dates: If a complaint is filed during the
sixty (60) days preceding the date of any election at which the respondent is a
candidate, the Commission shall render its decision as required under
subsections E and F of this section within seven (7) days after the complaint
is filed, and during the seven (7) days preceding that election, the Commission
shall render such decision before the date of that election, if possible. (Ord.
516-04, 5-3-2004; amd. 2017 Code)
1-8-7: PENALTIES:
A.   Violations Of Section
1-8-4:
   1.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-8-4 of this chapter may be punishable by a term of incarceration in a penal
institution other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than three
hundred sixty four (364) days and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   2.   A violation of section
1-8-4 of this chapter shall be prosecuted as a criminal offense by an attorney
for the Village by filing in the Circuit Court an information, or sworn
complaint, charging such offense. The prosecution shall be under and conform to
the rules of criminal procedure. Conviction shall require the establishment of
the guilt of the defendant beyond a reasonable doubt.
B.   Violations Of Section
 1-8-5:
   1.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-8-5 of this chapter is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than one
thousand one dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00). (Ord. 516-04, 5-3-2004)
   2.   A violation of section
1-8-5 of this chapter may be prosecuted by the Ethics Commission through the
designated administrative procedure. (Ord. 516-04, 5-3-2004; amd. 2017 Code)
C.   Intentional False Reports: Any person who intentionally makes a false
report alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter to the local
enforcement authorities, the State's attorney or any other law enforcement
official may be punishable by a term of incarceration in a penal institution
other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than three hundred sixty
four (364) days, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
D.   Additional Enforcement: In addition to any other penalty that may be
applicable, whether criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally
violates any provision of section 1-8-4 or 1-8-5 of this chapter is subject to
discipline or discharge. (Ord. 516-04, 5-3-2004)
CHAPTER 9
VILLAGE RECORDS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Access To Public Records
1-9-2: Verbatim Record Of Closed Meetings
1-9-1: ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS:
A.   Village Policy Adopted: Effective January 1, 2010, the Village policy
governing access to public records under the Freedom of Information Act, a copy
of which is on file in the Village as exhibit A and incorporated herein by this
reference as if fully set forth, is hereby adopted and approved. (Ord. 634-10,
1-4-2010)
1-9-2: VERBATIM RECORD OF CLOSED MEETINGS:
Effective on and after January 1, 2004, it is the policy of the Village Board
of Trustees that the Village Board and each and every board or commission
appointed by or otherwise under the jurisdiction of the Village Board shall
keep and maintain verbatim records of all closed meetings in the form of an
audio recording pursuant to and in accordance with the terms of the Illinois
Open Meetings Act and the following policy:
A.   The Village Clerk is hereby authorized to purchase reasonable audio
recording devices in sufficient numbers so as to make such equipment readily
available to the Village Board of Trustees and each and every board or
commission appointed by or otherwise under the jurisdiction of the Village
Board of Trustees. The Village Clerk shall be deemed the custodian of such
audio recording equipment, and shall keep the same in good working order and
shall keep on hand sufficient audio recording media for the recording of all
closed meetings of the Village Board of Trustees and other boards and
commissions. The Village Clerk shall make such audio recording equipment
available to the Village Board of Trustees and each and every board and
commission for the purpose of keeping a verbatim record of all closed meetings
in the form of an audio recording. (Res. 332, 11-3-2003, eff. 1-1-2004)
B.   At the beginning of each closed meeting of the Village Board of Trustees
and other boards and commissions, the Clerk or Secretary of the Village Board
of Trustees or each and every board or commission shall cause the audio
recording device to record a verbatim record on an audio recording media of the
closed meeting from beginning to end. At the conclusion of the closed meeting,
the Clerk or Secretary shall remove the audio recording from the audio
recording device and shall record on the face of the audio recording: 1) the
date and time the closed meeting began and ended; and 2) the date and time the
audio recording began and ended; and 3) the initials of the Clerk or Secretary.
Only the Village Clerk shall have possession of or access to the audio
recordings of closed meetings except in accordance with the provisions of this
section.
C.   Any duly elected Village President or Trustee of the Village Board of
Trustees, the Village Clerk, the Village Attorney, and any duly appointed
member of any board or commission may have access to inspect and review any
audio recording of a closed meeting in which that person was actually present;
provided, however, that the person requesting such inspection and review of any
such audio recording shall first give written notice to the Village Clerk
requesting inspection and review of a specific audio recording of a closed
meeting. The Village Clerk shall thereafter give written notice of the request
for inspection and review to every person who was present at the closed
meeting, the Village Attorney, and the Village President. Not earlier than
three (3) business days nor later than seven (7) business days after the
receipt of the written request to inspect and review the audio recording, the
person requesting such inspection and review shall meet with the Village Clerk
and the Village Attorney. The audio recording shall be reviewed in the presence
of the person requesting such inspection and review of the audio recording, the
Village Attorney and the Village Clerk. No audio recording of any closed
meeting shall be reproduced in any manner whatsoever. (Res. 332, 11-3-2003,
eff. 1-1-2004; amd. 2017 Code)
D.   The audio recording of any closed meeting shall not be released to and
shall not be reviewed or inspected by any nonparticipant of the closed meeting;
provided, however, that if a bona fide and duly executed order of a court of
competent jurisdiction is served upon the Village Clerk, and such order is duly
reviewed and consented to by the Village Attorney, the Village Clerk shall
personally deliver to the Judge issuing such bona fide order the requested
audio recording of the closed meeting for in camera inspection.
E.   The Village Clerk shall destroy audio recordings of closed meetings
eighteen (18) months after the completion of the closed meeting so recorded,
but only after: 1) the Village Board of Trustees or other board or commission
specifically approves the destruction of the particular audio recording; and 2)
the Village Board of Trustees or other board or commission has approved the
written minutes of the closed session that meet the written minutes
requirements of the Open Meetings Act. (Res. 332, 11-3-2003, eff. 1-1-2004)
TITLE 2
FINANCES AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL FINANCE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Investment Policy Adopted
2-1-2: Claims Against The Village
2-1-1: INVESTMENT POLICY ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted an Investment Policy on file in the Village. (Res. 308,
12-6-1999)
2-1-2: CLAIMS AGAINST THE VILLAGE:
All persons having any claim or account against the Village shall file an
itemized statement thereof in writing with the Village Clerk. The Village Board
of Trustees may require such claim to be verified by affidavit and approved by
the officer or committee having charge of the particular subject of the claim,
if they deem best. No claim shall be paid until allowed by the majority vote of
the Village Board. (1945 Code § 17-5; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 2
INTERESTED PARTIES REGISTRY AND RULES FOR TAX INCREMENT FINANCING
SECTION:
2-2-1: Authority To Create Registries
2-2-2: Rules Adopted; Amendments
2-2-1: AUTHORITY TO CREATE REGISTRIES:
The Village Clerk or his or her designee is hereby authorized and directed to
create an interested parties registry in accordance with section 11-74.4-4.2 of
the Tax Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act (the Act) for the proposed tax
increment financing redevelopment project areas currently being considered by
the Village and for each redevelopment project area created after the effective
date hereof. (Ord. 542-06, 3-6-2006)
2-2-2: RULES ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS:
In accordance with section 11-74.4-4.2 of the Act, the Village hereby adopts
the registration rules on file in the Village as Exhibit A as registration
rules for each such interested parties registry. The Village shall have the
authority to amend such registration rules from time to time as may be
necessary or desirable to comply with and carry out the purposes intended by
the Act. (Ord. 542-06, 3-6-2006)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
3-1-3: State Regulations Adopted
3-1-4: License Or Permit Required
3-1-5: Ineligibility For License
3-1-6: Separate License For Each Location
3-1-7: Initial Licenses And Permits
3-1-8: Application For License
3-1-9: Classification Of Licenses And Permits
3-1-10: License Fees
3-1-11: Expiration Of License; Proration Of Fees
3-1-12: Privilege Granted By License
3-1-13: Nontransferability Of License
3-1-14: Posting License
3-1-15: Renewal Of License
3-1-16: Change Of Location
3-1-17: Hours Of Operation; Presence On Premises After Hours
3-1-18: Sanitation Conditions
3-1-19: Sales To Certain Persons Prohibited; Identification Requirements
3-1-20: Additional Prohibitions For Underage Persons
3-1-21: Restricted And Prohibited Acts
3-1-22: Existing Establishments On Annexed Property
3-1-23: Duties Of Village Clerk
3-1-24: Compliance With Zoning Regulations
3-1-25: Application Of Provisions To Private Parking Lots, Driveways And Open
Spaces
3-1-26: Violation; Penalties
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall, for the
purpose of this chapter, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in
this section:
                                       The product of distillation of any
                                       fermented liquid, whether rectified or
ALCOHOL:                               diluted, whatever may be the origin
                                       thereof, and includes synthetic ethyl
                                       alcohol. The term does not include
                                       denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
                                       Alcohol, spirits, wine and beer and
                                       every liquid or solid, patented, or not,
                                       containing alcohol, spirits, wine or
                                       beer and capable of being consumed as a
                                       beverage by a human being. None of the
                                       provisions of this chapter shall apply
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR:                      to wine intended for use and used by any
                                       church or religious organization for
                                       sacramental purposes; provided, that
                                       such wine shall be purchased from a
                                       licensed manufacturer or importing
                                       distributor under the State Liquor
                                       Control Act.
                                       A beverage obtained by the alcoholic
                                       fermentation of an infusion or
BEER:                                  concoction of barley or other grain,
                                       malt, and hops in water, and includes,
                                       among other things, beer, ale, stout,
                                       lager beer, porter and the like.
                                       A corporation organized under the laws
                                       of this State, not for pecuniary profit,
                                       solely for the promotion of some common
                                       object other than the sale or
                                       consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept,
                                       used and maintained by its members
                                       through the payment of annual dues, and
                                       owning, hiring or leasing a building or
                                       space in a building of such extent and
                                       character as may be suitable and
                                       adequate for the reasonable and
                                       comfortable use and accommodation of its
                                       members and their guests and provided
                                       with suitable and adequate kitchen and
                                       dining room space and equipment and
                                       maintaining a sufficient number of
                                       servants and employees for cooking,
                                       preparing and serving food and meals for
                                       its members and their guests; provided,
                                       that the affairs and management of such
                                       club are conducted by a board of
                                       directors, executive committee or
CLUB:                                  similar body chosen by the members at
                                       their annual meeting; and that no member
                                       or any officer, agent or employee of the
                                       club is paid, or directly or indirectly
                                       receives, in the form of salary or other
                                       compensation, any profits from the
                                       distribution or sale of alcoholic liquor
                                       to the club or the members of the club
                                       or its guests introduced by members
                                       beyond the amount of such salary as may
                                       be fixed and voted at any annual meeting
                                       by the members or by its board of
                                       directors or other governing body out of
                                       the general revenue of the club; and
                                       provided further, that such club files
                                       with the Local Liquor Control
                                       Commissioner at the time of its
                                       application for a license under this
                                       chapter two (2) copies of a list of
                                       names and residences of its members, and
                                       similarly files within ten (10) days of
                                       the election of any additional member
                                       his name and address.
                                       The sale or offering for sale at retail
CONSUMPTION SALES:                     of any alcoholic liquor for consumption
                                       on the premises where sold.
                                       Any person, other than a manufacturer or
                                       nonresident dealer licensed under the
                                       State Liquor Control Act, who is engaged
DISTRIBUTOR:                           in the Village in purchasing, storing,
                                       possessing or warehousing any alcoholic
                                       liquors for resale, or reselling at
                                       wholesale, whether within or without the
                                       State.
                                       An Act passed by the Fifty Eighth
                                       Illinois General Assembly entitled "an
ILLINOIS LIQUOR CONTROL ACT; STATE     Act Relating to Alcoholic Liquors",
LIQUOR CONTROL ACT:                    approved January 31, 1934, as amended,
                                       codified as 235 Illinois Compiled
                                       Statutes 5/1-1, et seq.
ILLINOIS LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION;    The Commission created by article III
STATE COMMISSION:                      section 1 of the State Liquor Control
                                       Act.
                                       Any person other than a nonresident
                                       dealer licensed under the State Liquor
                                       Control Act who imports into this State,
                                       from any point in the United States
                                       outside this State, whether for himself
                                       or for another, any alcoholic liquors
IMPORTING DISTRIBUTOR:                 for sale or resale, or for use in the
                                       manufacture, preparation or compounding
                                       of products other than alcoholic
                                       liquors, or who imports into this State,
                                       from any point in the United States
                                       outside this State, for consumption in
                                       any one (1) calendar year, more than one
                                       (1) gallon of such liquors.
                                       The premises described in the
                                       application for the license required by
LICENSED PREMISES:                     this chapter or in the license, as the
                                       place where the business to be covered
                                       or covered by the license is to be, or
                                       is carried on.
                                       Every brewer, fermentor, distiller,
                                       rectifier, wine maker, blender,
                                       processor, bottler or person who fills
                                       or refills an original package, whether
MANUFACTURER:                          for himself or another, and others
                                       engaged in brewing, fermenting,
                                       distilling, rectifying or bottling
                                       alcoholic liquors as defined in this
                                       section.
                                       Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask,
                                       barrel, keg, hogshead or other
                                       receptacle or container, whatsoever,
ORIGINAL PACKAGE:                      used, corked or capped, sealed and
                                       labeled by the manufacturer of an
                                       alcoholic liquor, to contain and to
                                       convey any alcoholic liquor.
                                       All persons who are owners or are in
                                       control of any place where the sale or
                                       distribution of alcoholic liquor is
OWNER, PROPRIETOR:                     carried on, whether they be individuals,
                                       partners, corporations, joint stock
                                       companies, fiduciaries, officers,
                                       directors, stockholders of corporations
                                       or otherwise.
                                       The sale or offering for sale at retail
                                       of alcoholic liquor, in the original
PACKAGE SALES:                         package, and not to be consumed or in
                                       fact consumed in whole or in part on the
                                       premises where sold.
                                       Any individual, firm, partnership,
                                       organization, corporation, limited
                                       liability company, association,
                                       proprietorship or other legal entity.
                                       The term shall also include an executor,
                                       administrator, trustee, receiver or
                                       other representative appointed according
                                       to law. Whenever the word "person"
PERSON:                                appears in any section of this chapter
                                       prescribing a penalty or fine, as to
                                       partnerships or associations, the word
                                       shall include the partners or members
                                       thereof, and as to corporations or
                                       limited liability company, shall include
                                       the officers, agents or members thereof
                                       who are responsible for any violation of
                                       this chapter.
                                       The person designated as manager within
                                       the application for license. The
                                       Resident Manager or Managing Agent must
                                       be a bona fide resident of either Clay,
                                       Cumberland, Effingham, Fayette, Jasper,
                                       or Shelby County and must be a full-time
                                       employee of the Licensee who is
                                       physically present on a daily basis at
                                       the Licensed Premises not less than
                                       twenty-five hours per week; the Resident
RESIDENT MANAGER OR MANAGING AGENT:    Manager or Managing Agent must have
                                       management authority including control
                                       of the premises, all books and records
                                       and must have authority to make
                                       decisions and give consent regarding any
                                       matter concerning the control of the
                                       premises. A general partnership,
                                       corporation, limited liability company,
                                       and similar business entities must
                                       conduct business by a Resident Manager
                                       or Managing Agent.
                                       Any public place which is kept, used,
                                       maintained, advertised and held out to
                                       the public as a place where meals are
                                       served and where meals are actually and
                                       regularly served, without sleeping
RESTAURANT:                            accommodations, such space being
                                       provided with adequate and sanitary
                                       kitchen and dining room equipment and
                                       capacity and having employed therein a
                                       sufficient number and kind of employees
                                       to prepare, cook and serve suitable food
                                       for its guests.
                                       Any establishment holding a license for
                                       the sale of alcoholic liquor where more
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT WHERE THE SALE OF than fifty percent (50%) of its gross
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR IS NOT THE PRINCIPAL  sales or revenues for any calendar month
BUSINESS:                              in the preceding twelve (12) months is
                                       for items or services other than
                                       alcoholic liquors.
                                       A person who sells, or offers for sale,
RETAILER:                              alcoholic liquor for use or consumption
                                       and not for resale in any form.
                                       Any transfer, exchange or barter in any
                                       manner, or by any means whatsoever,
                                       including the transfer of alcoholic
                                       liquors by and through the transfer or
                                       negotiation of warehouse receipts or
                                       certificates, and includes and means all
SALE:                                  sales made by any person, whether
                                       principal, proprietor, agent, servant or
                                       employee. The term "sale" includes any
                                       transfer of alcoholic liquor from a
                                       foreign importer's license to an
                                       importing distributor's license even if
                                       both licenses are held by the same
                                       person.
SELL AT RETAIL; SALE AT RETAIL:        Sales for use or consumption and for
                                       resale in any form.
                                       Any beverage which contains alcohol
                                       obtained by distillation, mixed with
                                       water or other substance in solution,
SPIRITS:                               and includes brandy, rum, whiskey, gin
                                       or other spirituous liquors, and such
                                       liquors when rectified, blended or
                                       otherwise mixed with alcohol or other
                                       substances.
TO SELL:                               To keep or expose for sale and keep with
                                       intent to sell.
                                       An establishment or business whose
                                       primary purpose is to operate Video
                                       Gaming Terminals, with said
VIDEO GAMING PARLOR:                   establishment or business deriving less
                                       than sixty (60) percent of its annual
                                       gross revenues from the sale of foods,
                                       snacks, gasoline, personal goods, and/or
                                       Alcoholic Liquor.
                                       Any electronic video game machine that,
                                       upon insertion of cash, is available to
                                       play or simulate the play of a video
                                       game, including, but not limited to,
                                       video poker, line up, and blackjack, as
                                       authorized by the Illinois Gaming Board
VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL:                 utilizing a video display and
                                       microprocessors in which the player may
                                       receive free games or credits that can
                                       be redeemed for cash. The term does not
                                       include a machine that directly
                                       dispenses coins, cash or tokens or is
                                       for amusement purposes only.
                                       Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the
                                       fermentation of the natural contents of
                                       fruits or vegetables, containing sugar,
                                       including such beverages when fortified
WINE:                                  by the addition of "alcohol" or
                                       "spirits", as defined in this section.
                                       (Ord. 447, 12-7-1998; amd. Ord. 704-12,
                                       6-4-2012; 2017 Code; Ord. 1125-2022, 11-
                                       21-2022)
 
3-1-2: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
A.   President Serve As: The Village President shall be the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner and shall be charged with the administration of the
appropriate provisions of the State Liquor Control Act, this chapter, and such
ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations relating to alcoholic liquor as
hereinafter may be adopted. Whenever in this chapter the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner shall be referred to, the term shall include such other persons as
may be appointed by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner to assist him in the
performance of the duties herein provided for him.
B.   Powers And Duties Generally: The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall
have the following powers and duties: (Ord. 447, 12-7-1998)
   1.   To grant and/or suspend for not more than thirty (30) days or revoke
for cause all licenses issued under this chapter to persons for premises within
his jurisdiction. (Ord. 447, 12-7-1998; amd. 2017 Code)
   2.   To enter or to authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any time
upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the provisions
of the State Liquor Control Act, this chapter or any rules and regulations
adopted by him or by the State Commission have been or are being violated and,
at such time, to examine the premises of the licensee in connection therewith.
   3.   To exercise all the powers, functions and duties which now or hereafter
may be granted to him by the State Liquor Control Act or this chapter.
   4.   To suspend and to revoke any license issued under this chapter for any
of the following reasons:
      a.   The licensee has violated any of the laws of the United States
relating to the sale of alcoholic liquor, or any of the provisions of the State
Liquor Control Act, or any ordinance enacted by the Village Board of Trustees,
including this chapter, or any applicable rules and regulations adopted by the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner or by the State Commission.
      b.   The wilful making of any false statement as to a material fact in
the application for such license.
      c.   The permitting of an unlawful, disorderly or immoral practice upon
the licensed premises.
      d.   The refusal of any licensee to testify under oath to all relevant
and material questions propounded to him at any hearing conducted by the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner.
      e.   The State Commission has suspended or revoked the license of the
licensee. (Ord. 447, 12-7-1998)
      f.   The licensee has failed to operate the business at the location
referred to in such license for a period of sixty (60) days subsequent to the
date of issuance of such license or for any extended period as shall be granted
by order of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner within such sixty (60) day
period. (Ord. 447, 12-7-1998; amd. 2017 Code)
   5.   To examine or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a
local license or for a renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of
revocation or suspension has been served in the manner hereinafter provided,
and to examine or cause to be examined the books and records of any such
applicant or licensee; to hear testimony and take proof for his information in
the performance of his duties; and for such purpose, to issue subpoenas which
shall be effective in any part of this State. For the purpose of obtaining any
of the information desired by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner under this
subsection, he may authorize his agent to act on his behalf.
   6.   To receive the complaint of any resident of the Village, and to
investigate upon such complaint, or to investigate upon his own initiative, any
alleged violation of any law of the United States relating to the sale of
alcoholic liquor, or any of the provisions of the State Liquor Control Act, or
any ordinance of the Village, including this chapter, or any applicable rules
and regulations adopted by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner or by the
State Commission.
   7.   To make, promulgate, alter, amend, repeal and enforce such reasonable
rules and regulations relating to the administration and enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter as may be deemed by him to be desirable.
C.   Public Hearings: For the purpose of administering and enforcing the
provisions of this chapter, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may, in his
discretion, hold public hearings at any time within the Village concerning any
matters embraced within this chapter. (Ord. 447, 12-7-1998)
3-1-3: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
All of the provisions of 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1, et seq., and of
the rules and regulations issued by the State Liquor Control Commission, as
amended from time to time, are hereby incorporated into and declared to be a
part of this chapter the same as if they were expressly set forth herein. (Ord.
447, 12-7-1998)
3-1-4: LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person, within the corporate limits of the Village shall offer for sale at
retail or sell at retail alcoholic liquor without first having obtained a
license or permit to do so as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 447, 12-7-1998)
3-1-5: INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE:
No License authorized by this chapter shall be issued to:
A.   A person who is not a resident of the Village prior to the date of his or
her application. In the case of a general partnership, residency shall not be
required for partners, if the general partnership Applicant employs a Resident
Manager to operate the business. In the case of a corporate Applicant,
residency shall not be required for corporate officers and stockholders if the
corporate Applicant employs a Resident Manager to operate the business. In the
case of a limited liability company Applicant, residency shall not be required
for limited liability company members if the limited liability company employs
a Resident Manager to operate the business. In the case of a limited
partnership Applicant, residency shall not be required for limited partners or
general partners if the limited partnership applicant employs a Resident
Manager to operate the business.
B.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community in
which he or she resides.
C.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any Federal or state
law, unless the Commissioner determines that such person has been sufficiently
rehabilitated to warrant the public trust after considering matters set forth
in such person's application and the Commissioner's investigation. The burden
of proof of sufficient rehabilitation shall be on the applicant.
D.   A person who has been convicted of keeping a place of prostitution or
keeping a place of juvenile prostitution, promoting prostitution that involves
keeping a place of prostitution, or promoting juvenile prostitution that
involves keeping a place of juvenile prostitution.
E.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or misdemeanor
opposed to decency and morality.
F.   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked for
cause.
G.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license issued
hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first application.
H.   A copartnership, if any general partnership thereof, or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than five percent (5%) of the aggregate
limited partner interest in such copartnership would not be eligible to receive
a license hereunder.
I.   A corporation or limited liability company, if any member, officer,
manager, or director thereof, or any stockholder or stockholders owning in the
aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the stock of such corporation, would
not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason other than
citizenship and residency within the Village.
J.   A corporation or limited liability company unless it is incorporated or
organized in Illinois, or unless it is a foreign corporation or foreign limited
liability company which is qualified under the Business Corporation Act of 1983
or the Limited Liability Company Act to transact business in Illinois. The
Commissioner shall permit and accept from an applicant for a license under this
chapter proof prepared from the Secretary of State's website that the
corporation or limited liability company is in good standing and is qualified
under the Business Corporation Act of 1983 or the Limited Liability Company Act
to transact business in Illinois.
K.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a Resident Manager or
Managing Agent unless the Resident Manager or Managing Agent possesses the same
qualifications required by the licensee.
L.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any Federal or State law
concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor or has
forfeited his or her bond to appear in court to answer charges for any such
violation.
M.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a license is
sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the
license is to be issued.
N.   Any law enforcing public official, the Village President, any Trustee, or
any member of the Village Board; except, that a license may be granted to such
official in relation to premises that is not located within the Village if the
issuance of such license is approved by the State Liquor Control Commission;
and except, that a license may be granted to any Trustee or member of the
Village Board in relation to premises that is located within the Village if:
   1.   The sale of alcoholic liquor pursuant to the license is incidental to
the selling of food;
   2.   The issuance of the license is approved by the State Commission;
   3.   The issuance of the license is in accordance with all applicable
Village ordinances; and
   4.   The official granted a license does not vote on alcoholic liquor issues
pending before the Village Board of Trustees. Notwithstanding any provision of
the subsection to the contrary, any Trustee or member of the Village Board may
have a direct interest in the sale of alcoholic liquor as long as he or she is
not a law enforcing public official or the Village President.
   To prevent any conflict of interest, the elected official with the direct
interest in the sale of alcoholic liquor shall not participate in any meetings,
hearing, or decisions on matters impacting the sale of alcoholic liquor.
Furthermore, the Village President may have an interest in the sale of
alcoholic liquor as long as the Village Board of Trustees has made a Local
Liquor Control Commissioner appointment that compiles with the requirements of
625 Illinois Compiled Statues 5/4-2.
O.   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated by
the licensee.
P.   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offence as proscribed by any
720 Illinois Compiled Statues 5/28-1(a)(3) through (a)(11), or as proscribed by
720 Illinois Statutes 5/28-1.1 or 5/28-3 (the Criminal Code of 1961 or the
Criminal Code of 2012), or as proscribed by a statute replaced by any of the
aforesaid statutory provisions.
Q.   A person or entity to whom a Federal wagering stamp has been issued by the
Federal government, unless the person or entity is eligible to be issued a
license under the Raffles and Poker Runs Act or the Illinois Pull Tabs and Jar
Games Act.
R.   A person who intends to sell alcoholic liquors for use or consumption on
his or her licensed retail premises who does not have liquor liability
insurance coverage for that premises in an amount that is at least equal to the
maximum liability amounts set out in 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-21(a).
S.   A person who intends to operate Video Gaming Terminals at the business to
be operated by the licensee, which the Local Liquor Control Commissioner
estimates to derive less than (60) percent of its gross annual revenues from
sales of foods, snacks, gasoline, personal goods, and/or Alcoholic Liquor; or,
in the case of renewal, no license holder who fails to derive at least sixty
(60) percent or more of its gross annual revenues from sales of foods, snacks,
gasoline, personal goods, and/or Alcoholic Liquor.
T.   A person who fails to furnish information or to make statements required
in the application for license as set forth in this chapter or requested by the
Liquor Control Commissioner.
U.   A person who is not eligible for a state retail liquor license.
V.   A person who knowingly furnishes false or misleading information or
falsely answers the statements required in the application for a License, or
one who furnishes false or misleading information on the application or to any
investigator during the application process.
W.   Any person if the following criteria is applicable: If any tax payable to
the Village or other debt owed to the Village remains unpaid after its due date
and the delinquent taxpayer or debtor (henceforth debtor) holds a license, for
the benefit of the debtor or his or her property, issued by the Village, or the
debtor applies for such license, the Village Clerk may request the licensing or
issuing authority to suspend or refuse to issue, renew or extend such License.
The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall then suspend or refuse to issue,
renew, or extend such License until such time as all taxes and outstanding
debts are paid. Every licensee or applicant for a license shall attest, under
penalties of perjury that he or she has paid all taxes or other debts owed to
the Village. (2017 Code; amd. Ord. 1125-2022, 11-21-2022)
3-1-6: SEPARATE LICENSE FOR EACH LOCATION:
A separate license must be obtained for each location desired by the applicant
for a license under the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 447, 12-7-1998)
3-1-7: INITIAL LICENSES AND PERMITS:
A.   Fees:
   1.   An initial license fee shall be charged to each new applicant for a
liquor license. This fee shall be charged to each license applicant only once
and shall be in addition to the annual license fee. This fee shall be paid by
each new applicant at the time the original application is filed in the
following amounts for the following license classifications:
 
Classification Initial Fee
Class A        $750.00
Class B        750.00
Class C        25.00
Class D        750.00
Class E        750.00
Class F        $50.00
 
   2.   No initial license fee will be required of any licensee holding a
liquor license from the Village on the effective date hereof, or of any
licensee who first obtains a license from the Village only because the
territory in which such person previously held a liquor license was newly
annexed to the Village.
B.   Application For Initial License; Issuance: Application for a new license
and a certified or cashier's check in the amount of the initial fee shall be
filed with the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. After appropriate
investigation of the applicant's eligibility for issuance of a license, the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall prepare a resolution authorizing a
license to be issued to the applicant. After the Village Board has adopted the
authorization resolution, the applicant shall file his application and annual
fee with the Village Clerk, and the new license shall be issued.
Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter to the contrary, after
appropriate investigation of the applicant’s eligibility for issuance of a
Class C or Class F Permit, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner determines
that the applicant is qualified, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may
issue a Class C or Class F Permit with any requirements and restrictions as the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner deems appropriate.
(Ord. 447, 12-7-1998; amd. Ord. 659-11, 4-4-2011; Ord. 704-12, 6-4-2012; Ord.
1125-2022, 11-21-2022; Ord. 1186-2025, 3-3-2025)
3-1-8: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person desiring a license authorized by this chapter shall make application
therefor to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. A separate application shall
be made for each license desired by the applicant. Such application shall be in
writing upon forms prepared and furnished by the Village. Each application
shall be signed by the applicant and verified by him or her by oath or
affidavit, and shall be filed with the Village Clerk. In case the applicant is
a partnership, all partners must sign and verify the application. In case the
applicant is a limited partnership, all general partners and any limited
partner owning more than a five percent (5%) interest in such limited
partnership must sign and verify the application. In case the applicant is a
corporation or club, all officers, directors and any stockholders owning more
than five percent (5%) of the stock of such corporation must sign and verify
the application and indicate their official position. In case the applicant is
a limited liability company, all members owning more than five percent (5%) of
the interest of such company must sign and verify the application and indicate
their official position. In case any other person is to conduct the place of
business as manager or agent of the licensee, he or she must also sign and
verify the application. The information requested in the application form must
be furnished as to each person signing the application. Each application shall
contain the following information and statements:
A.   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an individual;
in the case of a partnership, the names and addresses of the persons entitled
to share in the profits thereof; in the case of a limited partnership, the
names, ages, and addresses of all general partners, and of all limited partners
owning more than a five percent (5%) interest in such limited partnership; in
the case of a corporation or club, the objects for which organized, and the
names, ages, and addresses of the officers, directors, and any stockholders
owning more than five percent (5%) of the stock of such corporation; in the
case of a limited liability company, the objects for which organized, and the
names, ages, and addresses of the members owning more than five percent (5%) of
the interest of such company; and in any case, the name and address of the
Resident Manager or Managing Agent who is to conduct the place of business for
which the license is sought. A club shall attach to its application one (1)
copy of a list of names and residences of its members.
B.   The citizenship of the applicant, and if a naturalized citizen, the time
and place of his or her naturalization.
C.   The location where he or she proposes to engage in the business for which
the application was submitted, and whether the proposed location is within one
hundred feet (100') of any church, school, hospital, home for aged or indigent
persons or for war veterans, their wives or children, or of any military or
naval station.
D.   Whether food for human consumption is to be sold in such place of business
if the application is allowed.
E.   Whether the applicant owns the premises for which a license is sought, and
if he or she does not, the name of the landlord and the term of the lease.
F.   Whether the applicant has made an application for a similar or other
license on premises other than that described in this application and the
disposition of such other application.
G.   Whether or not any license issued to him or her under this chapter or
previous ordinances relating to alcoholic liquor has ever been suspended or
revoked.
H.   Whether or not he or she has ever been convicted of being the keeper or an
inmate of a house of ill fame, of pandering or of any other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency or morality.
I.   Whether or not the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony, and
whether or not he or she is disqualified to receive the license sought by
reason of any manner or thing contained in the laws of the State or this
ordinance.
J.   A statement that the applicant agrees not to violate any provision of this
chapter or other ordinances of the Village or any law of the United States or
of the State in the conduct of his or her business, and that in the event such
promise is broken or if any statement contained in the application is not true,
the license applied for may be immediately suspended or revoked.
K.   A statement that the applicant will testify under oath and subscribe to
the truth in response to all relevant and material questions propounded to him
or her in any hearing conducted by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner,
either before or after the issuance of a license to him or her, and that his or
her failure to so testify shall be sufficient reason for the refusal to issue
any such license to him or her, or the renewal thereof, or for the suspension
or revocation of any license which has been issued to him or her. A statement
that he or she will provide, on receipt of a lawfully authorized subpoena by
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, any book or record of his or her
licensed business in connection with any investigation conducted by the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner, and that his or her failure to provide such books
or records shall be sufficient reason for the refusal to issue any such license
to him or her, or the renewal thereof, or for the suspension or revocation of
any license which has been issued to him or her.
L.   A statement that the applicant has not accepted, received or borrowed
money, or anything else of value, or accepted or received credit (other than
merchandise credit in the ordinary course of business for a period not to
exceed thirty (30) days) directly or indirectly from any manufacturer,
importing distributor or wholesaler of alcoholic liquor, or from any
stockholder or officer of any corporation engaged in, or any other person
connected with, any such business.
M.   If the applicant is an Illinois limited partnership, a copy of the filed
certificate of limited partnership and a certificate of good standing from the
Illinois Secretary of State must be attached. If the applicant is a foreign
limited partnership, a copy of the filed certificate of limited partnership
from the Illinois Secretary of State for admission to transact business as a
foreign limited partnership in Illinois must be attached.
N.   If the applicant is an Illinois corporation, a copy of the Articles of
Incorporation and a Certificate of Good Standing from the Illinois Secretary of
State must be attached. If the applicant is a foreign corporation, a
certificate from the Illinois Secretary of State to conduct business in
Illinois as a foreign corporation must be attached.
O.   If the applicant is an Illinois limited liability company, a copy of the
articles of organization and a certificate of good standing from the Illinois
Secretary of State must be attached. If the applicant is a foreign limited
liability company, a certificate from the Illinois Secretary of State to
conduct business in Illinois as a foreign limited liability company must be
attached.
P.   A statement whether or not the applicant, his or her spouse, or any member
of the applicant's household is a Village Trustee, or the Village President,
and whether or not any such person is interested in any way, either directly or
indirectly, in the license applied for, the premises, or the profits or
proceeds from the sale of alcoholic liquor under the license applied for.
Q.   No license shall be granted to an applicant until such applicant shall
furnish evidence satisfactory to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner that
such applicant is covered by a policy of dram shop insurance issued by a
responsible insurance company authorized and licensed to do business in the
State of Illinois insuring such applicant against liability which such
applicant may incur under the provisions of 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-
21, and specifically designating the Village as an additional insured, on a
primary, noncontributory basis. The evidence of the insurance policy shall
indicate that the term of the insurance is of sufficient length to encompass
the period of the license sought.
R.   A statement as to what type of license being applied for.
S.   If the application intends to operate Video Gaming Terminals within the
premises for which a license is sought and, if so, provide a detailed summary
of its estimated sales for the term of the license being sought, specifically
itemizing the amount of sales from foods, snacks, gasoline, personal goods,
and/or Alcoholic Liquor.
T.   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may request additional information
to be included in the application which is necessary to effectuate the purposes
of this chapter. (Ord. 659-11, 4-4-2011; amd. 2017 Code; Ord. 1125-2022, 11-21-
2022)
3-1-9: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES AND PERMITS:
Licenses to sell alcoholic liquor at retail shall be of the following classes:
A.   Class A, Package Sales License: A Class A license shall entitle the
licensee to make package sales of alcoholic liquor.
B.   Class B, Consumption Sales License: A Class B license shall entitle the
licensee to make consumption sales of alcoholic liquor.
C.   Class C, Not For Profit Temporary Permit: A Class C Not For Profit
Temporary Permit shall entitle the permittee to sell at retail only alcoholic
liquor at any banquet, picnic, bazaar, fair or similar private or public
assembly where food or drink is sold, served or dispensed. Such Class C Not For
Profit Temporary Permit shall be issued only to a club, church, society,
fraternal or benevolent organization which has been organized not for pecuniary
profit, or for an event which is sponsored, in whole, or in part by the
Village. Such Class C Not For Profit Temporary Permit shall permit the sale of
alcoholic liquor for a period of not more than three (3) days, and not more
than one (1) Class C Not For Profit Temporary Permit shall be granted to any
such club, church, society, fraternal or benevolent organization or for such
village sponsored event in any one (1) period of thirty (30) days. Such Class C
Not For Profit Temporary Permit shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor only
for consumption upon the premises where sold or served and shall not permit the
sale of alcoholic liquor in the original package or upon any premises which is
not within the jurisdiction of the Village Board of Trustees. If the premises
to be utilized for the banquet, picnic, bazaar, fair or similar private or
public assembly is owned by the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, the permit
holder shall provide proof that the permit holder maintains commercial general
liability insurance insuring against liability for bodily injury, death or
damage to personal property with combined single limits of one million and 00/
100 dollars ($1,000,000.00) covering the premises to be utilized with the
special event permit for the period of the Class C Not For Profit Temporary
Permit, and shall name the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, as an additional
insured on a primary, non-contributory basis.
D.   Class D, Consumption Sales And Package Sales License: A Class D license
shall entitle the licensee to make consumption sales and package sales of
alcoholic liquor; except, that this classification shall not be construed so as
to permit package sales without also making consumption sales.
E.   Class E, Convenience Store Combination License: A Class E license shall
entitle the licensee to make consumption sales and package sales of alcoholic
liquor and shall further permit the licensee to operate Video Gaming Terminals
upon the Licensed Premises. For purposes of regulation of a Class E License:
   1.   Any person who displays a video gaming terminal for play or operation
by the public shall have, as a prerequisite to receiving any Class E license
from the Village, a valid license issued by the state gaming board for each
such video gaming terminal. The cancellation, suspension, or revocation of any
such license by the state gaming board shall result in the automatic
cancellation, suspension, or revocation of the licensee's Class E license
without refund of any portion of the license fee. An applicant for the Class E
license shall submit to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner a copy of the
license issued by the state gaming board for each video gaming terminal to be
played or operated on the Licensed Premises.
   2.   Any person with a Class E license that displays a video gaming terminal
for play or operation within its premises in violation of any provisions of
this Chapter, shall be immediately revoked.
   3.   No more than six video gaming terminals may be located in the Licensed
Premises. Every licensee shall comply with the provisions of the Video Gaming
Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq., as amended, and all rules, regulations, and
restrictions imposed by the state gaming board, as amended.
   4.   The operation of video gaming terminals shall not be permitted during
the hours alcoholic liquor sales are prohibited, as provided for within Section
3-1-17, as may be amended from time to time.
   5.   Video gaming shall be located in a clearly demarcated and fully
enclosed area that is restricted to persons over twenty-one (21) years of age.
Any and all consumption sales shall be restricted to the enclosed designated
area for video gaming terminals. A Class E licensee, their employees, or
customers shall not remove open Alcoholic Liquor from the area designated for
video gaming terminals. If an employee is not actually physically present
within the enclosed area, the Alcoholic Liquor shall be enclosed within a
locked cabinet, cooler, or other locked enclosure.
   6.   Any person who holds a Class E license shall derive at least sixty (60)
percent or more of its gross annual revenues from sales of foods, snacks,
gasoline, personal goods, and/or Alcoholic Liquor. Revenue obtained from video
gaming terminals from the premises having a Class E license shall not exceed
forty percent (40%) of the gross annual revenues.
   7.   Not more than twenty percent (20%) of the total gross square foot area
of the Licensed Premises may be designated for the use of video gaming
terminals.
F.   Class F, Special Event Permit: A Class F Special Event Permit shall
authorize a current holder of a license issued by the Village, a current holder
of a comparable license issued by any town, city, village or county within the
State of Illinois, to obtain a special permit for up to three (3) consecutive
days which shall allow the sale at retail alcoholic liquor for consumption
sales only within an area specifically designated in the permit, and shall not
permit the sale of alcoholic liquor in the original package or upon any
premises which is not within the jurisdiction of the Village Board of Trustees.
No more than two (2) such special event permits shall be issued to any person
in any calendar year. If the premises to be utilized for the event is owned by
the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, the permit holder shall provide proof that
the permit holder maintains commercial general liability insurance insuring
against liability for bodily injury, death or damage to personal property with
combined single limits of one million and 00/100 dollars ($1,000,000.00)
covering the premises to be utilized with the special event permit for the
period of the special event permit, and shall name the Village of Dieterich,
Illinois, as an additional insured on a primary, non-contributory basis.
(Ord. 447, 12-7-1998; amd. Ord. 659-11, 4-4-2011; 2017 Code; Ord. 1125-2022,
11-21-2022; Ord. 1186-2025, 3-3-2025)
3-1-10: LICENSE FEES:
A.   Established:
   1.   The following annual license fees shall be paid by each licensee in the
following amounts for the following license classifications:
 
Classification Annual Fee
Class A        $750.00
Class B        750.00
Class C        N/A
Class D        750.00
Class E        750.00
Class F        N/A
 
   2.   The annual fee shall be collected from all initial applicants and from
all other license holders. This subsection A shall not be construed to increase
the annual fee of any licensee during the term for which such license was
issued, until time for renewal of such license.
B.   Payment Of Fees: All annual fees for all classes of licenses provided in
this chapter shall be payable in full in advance of the issuance of such
license.
C.   Disposition Of Fees; Refunds: All initial and annual fees shall be paid to
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner at the time application is made and shall
be forthwith turned over to the Village Treasurer. In the event the license
applied for is denied, the fees shall be returned to the applicant. If the
license is granted, the fees shall be deposited into the General Corporate Fund
or in such other fund as shall have been designated by the Village Board of
Trustees after proper action of that body.
(Ord. 447, 12-7-1998; amd. Ord. 659, 4-4-2011; Ord. 1125-2022, 11-21-2022; Ord.
1186-2025, 3-3-2025)
3-1-11: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE; PRORATION OF FEES:
Each license shall terminate on April 30 next following its issuance, unless
sooner revoked. The annual fee to be paid shall be reduced in proportion to the
full calendar months which have expired in the annual or semiannual period
prior to the issuance of the license. (Ord. 447, 12-7-1998)
3-1-12: PRIVILEGE GRANTED BY LICENSE:
A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for not to exceed one (1)
year after issuance, unless sooner revoked as in this chapter provided, and
shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment,
garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable or transferable,
voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated.
Such license shall not descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution,
but it shall cease upon the death of the licensee; provided, that executors or
administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee, and the trustee of any
insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in part of alcoholic
liquor, may continue the business of the sale or manufacture of alcoholic
liquor under order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the privileges of
the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of such
decedent, or such insolvency or bankruptcy, until the expiration of such
license but not longer than six (6) months after the death, bankruptcy or
insolvency of such licensee. A refund shall be made of that portion of the
license fees paid for any period in which the licensee shall be prevented from
operating under such license in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 447, 12-7-1998; amd. 2017 Code)
3-1-13: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
All licenses issued under this chapter shall be considered personal, and no
license may be transferred to any person. (Ord. 704-12, 6-4-2012)
3-1-14: POSTING LICENSE:
Every licensee under the provision of this chapter shall cause his license to
be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed
premises. (Ord. 447, 12-7-1998)
3-1-15: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
Any licensee may renew his or her license at the expiration thereof; provided,
that he or she is then qualified to receive a license, and the premises for
which such renewal license is sought is suitable for the purpose; provided
further, that the renewal privilege herein contained shall not be construed as
a vested right which shall in any case prevent the Village Board from
decreasing the number of licenses to be issued within the Village. The
requirements for and the procedure of obtaining the renewal of a license shall
be the same as that provided for in case of an original application for a
license; provided, however, that any application for renewal shall be filed
with the Local Liquor Control Commissioner not less than thirty (30) days prior
to the expiration of the license.
Any licensee operating Video Gaming Terminals, shall submit, along with an
application for renewal, a detailed summary of its sales for the preceding
calendar year itemizing the amount of sales from foods, snacks, gasoline,
personal goods, and/or Alcoholic Liquor at such licensed premises. If the
information provided, pursuant to this paragraph, indicates that the licensee
derives less than sixty (60) percent or more of its gross annual revenues from
sales of foods, snacks, gasoline, personal goods, and/or Alcoholic Liquor based
on the prior year's sales, such Licensee shall not be entitled to renew its
license. (Ord. 447, 12-7-1998; amd. Ord. 1125-2022, 11-21-2022)
3-1-16: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
Any license issued under this chapter shall be for a single and particular
location. Upon application being filed with the Village Clerk for a change of
location, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may allow the location
authorized by the particular license to be changed. The application blank shall
be similar to that required of an original applicant for license. After
investigation, the change of location may be approved or rejected, as in the
case of original license applications, and if approved, the authorized change
of location shall be shown by endorsement upon the face of the existing
license. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to permit a licensee to
change the location of his business to, or operate his business or a portion
thereof as, a subtenant or otherwise at a site or place of business which,
under the ordinances of the Village, would be prohibited or denied to an
original applicant. (Ord. 447, 12-7-1998)
3-1-17: HOURS OF OPERATION; PRESENCE ON PREMISES AFTER HOURS:
A.   Hours Established:
   1.   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail any alcoholic
liquor in the Village between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. on any day except New Year's Day, when it shall be unlawful
to sell or offer for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor between the hours of
two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
   2.   It shall be unlawful to allow the consumption of any alcoholic liquor
on a licensed premises between the hours of one thirty o'clock (1:30) A.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) A.M. except New Year's Day, when it shall be unlawful to
allow the consumption of alcoholic liquor on a licensed premises between the
hours of two thirty o'clock (2:30) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
   3.   For the purposes of this section, licensed premises shall be construed
to include the parking area owned or under the control of the licensee upon
which the licensed premises is located.
B.   Presence Upon Premises After Hours: It shall be unlawful to keep open for
business or admit the public to any licensed premises where alcoholic liquor is
sold at retail during the hours at which the consumption of such liquor is
prohibited; provided, however, that in the case of restaurants, clubs, hotels,
motels, bowling alleys and other separate businesses conducted on such
premises, such establishments may be kept open during such hours, but no
alcoholic liquor may be sold during such hours. (Ord. 447, 12-7-1998)
3-1-18: SANITATION CONDITIONS:
A.   Diseased Employees Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to employ in any
premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor any person who is
afflicted with or who is a carrier of any contagious, infectious, or venereal
disease; and it shall be unlawful for any person who is afflicted with or a
carrier of any such disease to work in or about any such premises or to engage
in any way in the handling, preparation or distribution of such liquor;
provided, the County Health Department may require such employee to submit to a
physical examination if such officer suspects such employee of being afflicted
as herein set forth.
B.   Sanitation Facilities: Every holder of a Class A, B or D license shall
provide separate toilets and washstands for male and female patrons and shall
maintain the same in a clean and sanitary condition. (Ord. 447, 12-7-1998; amd.
2017 Code)
C.   Sanitary Premises: All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor or for the storage of such alcoholic liquor for such sale shall be kept
in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be kept in full compliance with the
ordinances regulating the condition of the premises used for the storage or
sale of food for human consumption. (Ord. 447, 12-7-1998)
3-1-19: SALES TO CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED; IDENTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Prohibited Sales: No licensee, his agent or employee, shall sell, give or
deliver alcoholic liquor to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years,
except as provided in 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-16.1. (Ord. 447, 12-7-
1998; amd. 2017 Code)
B.   Identification Requirements:
   1.   For the purpose of preventing the violation of this section, any
licensee, or his agent or employee, may refuse to sell or serve alcoholic
beverages to any person who is unable to produce adequate written evidence of
identity and of the fact that he or she is over the age of twenty one (21)
years. Adequate written evidence of age and identity of the person is a
document issued by a Federal, State, County, or Municipal government, or
subdivision or agency thereof, including, but not limited to, a motor vehicle
operator's license, a registration certificate issued under the Federal
Selective Service Act, or an identification card issued to a member of the
Armed Forces. Proof that the defendant-licensee, or his employee or agent,
demanded, was shown and reasonably relied upon such written evidence in any
transaction forbidden by this section is competent evidence and may be
considered in any criminal prosecution thereof or to any proceedings for the
suspension or revocation of any license based thereon.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, give, or furnish to any
person under the age of twenty one (21) years any false or fraudulent written,
printed, or photostatic evidence of the age and identity of such person or to
sell, give or furnish to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years
evidence of age and identification of any other person.
   3.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years to present or offer to any licensee, his agent or employee, any written,
printed or photostatic evidence of age and identity which is false, fraudulent,
or not actually his own for the purpose of ordering, purchasing, attempting to
purchase or otherwise procuring or attempting to procure, the serving of any
alcoholic beverage, or to have in his possession any false or fraudulent
written, printed, or photostatic evidence of age and identity. (Ord. 447, 12-7-
1998)
3-1-20: ADDITIONAL PROHIBITIONS FOR UNDERAGE PERSONS:
A.   Possession By Persons Under Twenty One: It shall be unlawful for any
person under the age of twenty one (21) years to have any alcoholic beverage in
his possession on any street or highway or in any public place or in any place
open to the public. This subsection does not apply to possession by a person
under the age of twenty one (21) years making a delivery of an alcoholic
beverage in pursuance of the order of his or her parent or in pursuance of his
or her employment.
B.   Employment Of Persons Under Eighteen:
   1.   No licensee, agent or employee shall permit any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years to draw, pour or mix any alcoholic liquor in the premises
either as an employee or gratuitously.
   2.   No licensee, agent or employee shall permit any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years to attend any bar, to serve or dispense, or in any other
way to handle alcoholic liquor, including packaged liquor, upon his licensed
premises. (Ord. 447, 12-7-1998)
3-1-21: RESTRICTED AND PROHIBITED ACTS:
A.   Consumption On Certain Premises: It shall be unlawful for anyone not
having a Class B or D license or temporary permit to sell, or offer for sale,
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises where sold, or to permit the
same to be consumed on the premises where sold. (Ord. 447, 12-7-1998; amd. 2017
Code)
B.   Disorderly Conduct On Premises: It shall be unlawful for any licensee or
his employee to permit in his place of business, or in any room licensed for
the sale of alcoholic liquors, any person by tumultuous or offensive carriage,
threatening, producing quarreling, challenging to fight, or fighting or to
permit any person to display any pistol, knife, slingshot, club, brass, steel
or iron knuckles or any other deadly weapon.
C.   Nude Entertainment Or Patrons:
   1.   Entertainment:
      a.   No licensee shall permit any person, while on the premises and in
public view, to:
         (1)   Expose his or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, anus, or anal
cleft; or
         (2)   Employ any device or covering which is intended to give the
appearance of or simulate his or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, anus or
anal cleft; or
         (3)   Appear without a fully opaque covering of his or her genitals,
pubic hair, buttocks, anus, or anal cleft.
      b.   No licensee shall permit any female person, while on the premises
and in public view, to:
         (1)   Expose that area of the human breast below the top of the
areola; or
         (2)   Employ any device or covering which is intended to give the
appearance of or simulate that area of the human breast below the top of the
areola; or
         (3)   Appear without a fully opaque covering of that area of the human
breast below the top of the areola.
   2.   Patrons:
      a.   No person, while on the premises of a licensee and in public view,
shall engage in the following conduct:
         (1)   Expose his or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, anus, or anal
cleft; or
         (2)   Employ any device or covering which is intended to give the
appearance of or simulate his or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, anus, or
anal cleft; or
         (3)   Appear without a fully opaque covering of his or her genitals,
pubic hair, buttocks, anus, or anal cleft.
      b.   No female person, while on the premises of a licensee and in public
view, shall engage in the following conduct:
         (1)   Expose that area of the human breast below the top of the
areola; or
         (2)   Employ any device or covering which is intended to give the
appearance of or simulate that area of the human breast below the top of the
areola; or
         (3)   Appear without a fully opaque covering of that area of the human
breast below the top of the areola. (Ord. 447, 12-7-1998)
D.   Gambling: It shall be unlawful for any licensee under this chapter to
permit or allow anyone to play for money, or other valuable thing, at any game
with cards, dice or chips, or with any other article, instrument or other thing
whatsoever, which may be used for the purpose of playing or betting upon or
winning or losing money, or any other thing or article of value, or to bet on
any game others may be playing upon any premises licensed under this chapter.
Anything contained in this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, this
prohibition shall not apply to any game, gaming device, or gaming event for
which a license or permit has been issued by the Illinois Department of Revenue
or the Illinois Gaming Board pursuant to the Pull Tabs and Jar Games Act, 230
Illinois Compiled Statutes 20/1 et seq.; the Bingo License and Tax Act, 230
Illinois Compiled Statutes 25/1 et seq.; the Illinois Video Gaming Act, 230
Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/1 et seq.; or the Charitable Games Act, 230
Illinois Compiled Statutes 30/1 et seq., so long as such game or gaming event
is conducted in compliance with all requirements of said Acts and all rules and
regulations of the Illinois Department of Revenue and the Illinois Gaming
Board. (Ord. 713-12, 8-6-2012)
E.   Peddling Alcoholic Liquor: It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor
within the corporate limits of the Village.
F.   Licensee Serving, Placing Alcoholic Liquor In Vehicles: No licensee, or
his agent or employee, shall serve, give or in any manner be concerned with
placing any alcoholic liquor in or upon or about any motor vehicle or to any
occupant of a motor vehicle, whether such vehicle is moving or parked or is at
a curb or in a public place or on the licensee's premises or other private
place, except in the original package with the seal unbroken. (Ord. 447, 12-7-
1998)
G.   Transporting Alcoholic Liquor:
   1.   Except as provided in subsection G2 of this section, no person shall
transport, carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor within the passenger
area of any motor vehicle upon a public way including, but not limited to,
public highways, alleys and/or sidewalks, except in the original package and
with the seal unbroken.
   2.   This subsection G shall not apply to the passengers in a limousine when
it is being used for purposes for which a limousine is ordinarily used, the
passengers on a chartered bus when it is being used for purposes for which
chartered buses are ordinarily used or on a "motor home" or "mini-motor home"
as defined in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-145.01. However, the driver of
any such vehicle is prohibited from consuming or having any alcoholic liquor in
or about the driver's area. Any evidence of alcoholic consumption by the driver
shall be prima facie evidence of such driver's failure to obey this subsection.
For the purposes of this subsection, a "limousine" is a motor vehicle of the
first division with the passenger compartment enclosed by a partition or
dividing window used in the for hire transportation of passengers and operated
by an individual in possession of a valid Illinois driver's license of the
appropriate classification pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-104.
(Ord. 447, 12-7-1998; amd. 2017 Code)
H.   Consumption, Possession On Public Ways:
   1.   Consumption: No person shall consume any alcoholic liquor on any public
way or right of way (including, but not limited to, public highways, streets,
alleys, parking lots and/or sidewalks) within the corporate limits of the
Village.
   2.   Possession: No person shall carry or possess, transport or have any
alcoholic liquor on any public way or right of way (including, but not limited
to, public highways, streets, alleys, parking lots and/or sidewalks) except in
the original package and with the seal unbroken, within the corporate limits of
the Village. (Ord. 447, 12-7-1998)
3-1-22: EXISTING ESTABLISHMENTS ON ANNEXED PROPERTY:
Whenever the Village annexes land upon which a licensed premises is situated,
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may issue a license of substantially the
same classification as the license that the licensee of the annexed premises
had prior to annexation; provided, that the licensee and the licensed premises
meet the requirements of all laws and ordinances applicable to the regulation
of the sale of alcoholic liquors; except, that no initial license fee shall be
charged; and except, that no annual license fee shall be charged for that
period of time for which such licensee has previously paid the County. (Ord.
447, 12-7-1998)
3-1-23: DUTIES OF VILLAGE CLERK:
The Village Clerk shall receive all license applications, issue all licenses
when directed to do so by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, and perform
such other duties and functions as are assigned to him by this chapter. The
Village Clerk shall also furnish routine stenographic services to the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner upon request. (Ord. 447, 12-7-1998)
3-1-24: COMPLIANCE WITH ZONING REGULATIONS:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to permit the sale of
alcoholic liquors in any place where the conduct of such business is prohibited
under the terms and provisions of the Village zoning ordinance. (Ord. 447, 12-
7-1998)
3-1-25: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS TO PRIVATE PARKING LOTS, DRIVEWAYS AND OPEN
SPACES:
For the purposes of enforcing this chapter, privately owned or occupied parking
lots and adjoining privately owned driveways, sidewalks and open spaces shall
be considered as public places or public ways, if so requested by the owners or
legal occupants thereof. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner is hereby
directed to keep, or have kept in his behalf, a file of all such requests made
by the owners or occupants of any private parking lots or other areas as
described in this section. (Ord. 447, 12-7-1998; amd. 2017 Code)
3-1-26: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and subject to a fine of one dollar ($1.00) to
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), suspension or revocation of the license, or
both. Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of
any provision of this chapter by any officer, director, manager or other agent
or employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of the
employer or licensee, and the employer or licensee shall be punishable in the
same manner as if the act or omission had been done or omitted by him
personally. (Ord. 447, 12-7-1998)
CHAPTER 2
VIDEO GAMING ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: State Regulations Adopted
3-2-3: License Required
3-2-4: Separate License For Each Terminal
3-2-5: Application For License; Fee; Information Updates Required
3-2-6: Disposition Of Fees
3-2-7: Term Of License
3-2-8: Privilege Granted By License
3-2-9: Nontransferability Of License
3-2-10: Posting License
3-2-11: Renewal Of License
3-2-12: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-2-13: Violation; Penalties
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   BOARD: The Illinois Gaming Board.
   ELECTRONIC CARD: A card purchased from a licensed establishment, licensed
fraternal establishment, licensed veterans establishment, or licensed truck
stop establishment for use in that establishment as a substitute for cash in
the conduct of gaming on a video gaming terminal.
   ELECTRONIC VOUCHER: A voucher printed by an electronic video game machine
that is redeemable in the licensed establishment for which it was issued.
   LICENSEE: Any person, corporation, limited liability company, or partnership
holding a license under the terms of this chapter.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, organization, corporation,
limited liability company, association, proprietorship or other legal entity.
The term shall also include an executor, administrator, trustee, receiver or
other representative appointed according to law. Whenever the word "person"
appears in any section of this chapter prescribing a penalty or fine, as to
partnerships or associations, the word shall include the partners or members
thereof, and as to corporations or limited liability companies, shall include
the officers, agents or members thereof who are responsible for any violation
of this chapter.
   VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL: Any electronic video game machine that, upon
insertion of cash, electronic cards or vouchers, or any combination thereof, is
available to play or simulate the play of a video game including, but not
limited to, video poker, line up, and blackjack, as authorized by the Board
utilizing a video display and microprocessors in which the player may receive
free games or credits that can be redeemed for cash. The term does not include
a machine that directly dispenses coins, cash, or tokens or is for amusement
purposes only. (Ord. 714-12, 8-6-2012; amd. 2017 Code)
3-2-2: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
All of the provisions of the Video Gaming Act and of the rules and regulations
issued by the Illinois Gaming Board, which are or may hereafter be in force and
which are applicable to the Village, are hereby incorporated into and declared
to be a part of this chapter the same as if they were expressly set forth
herein. (Ord. 714-12, 8-6-2012)
3-2-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall, either by himself or through an agent or any person acting as
an agent, clerk, servant or employee of another, install, keep, maintain, use
or permit the installation, keeping, maintenance or use of any video gaming
terminal within the Village limits without first obtaining a license from the
Village. (Ord. 714-12, 8-6-2012)
3-2-4: SEPARATE LICENSE FOR EACH TERMINAL:
A separate license must be obtained for each video gaming terminal desired by
an applicant under the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 714-12, 8-6-2012)
3-2-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE; INFORMATION UPDATES REQUIRED:
A.   A person desiring to obtain a license for a video gaming terminal within
the Village limits shall make application for a video gaming terminal license
with the Village Clerk. The license shall be in that form on file with the
Village. Any person applying for a video gaming terminal license pursuant to
this chapter shall pay an annual fee of Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250.00) per
video gaming terminal to the Village Clerk.
B.   The requirement to supply all information required in the application for
a license as provided in subsection A of this section is a continuing one. If
any supplied information or statements become invalid, it is the duty of the
licensee to provide updated information to the Village. (Ord. 714-12, 8-6-2012;
amd. 2017 Code; Ord. 1123-2022, 11-7-2022)
3-2-6: DISPOSITION OF FEES:
All license fees paid to the Village shall be forthwith turned over to the
Village Clerk. The Village Clerk shall deposit said fees into the General
Corporate Fund or in such other fund as shall have been designated by the Board
of Trustees after proper action. (Ord. 714-12, 8-6-2012)
3-2-7: TERM OF LICENSE:
Each license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be valid for a
period of up to one (1) year; provided, however, that each license shall
terminate on April 30 next following its issuance, unless sooner revoked. (Ord.
714-12, 8-6-2012)
3-2-8: PRIVILEGE GRANTED BY LICENSE:
A license issued under this chapter shall be purely a personal privilege. It
shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment,
garnishment or execution, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being
encumbered or hypothecated. Such license shall not descend by the laws of
testate or intestate devolution, but it shall cease upon the death of the
licensee; provided, that the executor of the will or administrator of the
estate of any deceased licensee and the trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt
licensee, when such estate consists in part of video gaming terminals, may
continue the business of the video gaming terminals under order of the
appropriate court, and may exercise the privileges of the deceased, insolvent,
or bankrupt licensee until the expiration of such license or until six (6)
months after the death, insolvency or bankruptcy of such licensee, whichever is
the shorter period of time. (Ord. 714-12, 8-6-2012; amd. 2017 Code)
3-2-9: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
All licenses issued under this chapter shall be considered personal, and no
license may be transferred to any person. (Ord. 714-12, 8-6-2012)
3-2-10: POSTING LICENSE:
Every licensee under the provisions of this chapter shall cause his license to
be hung in plain view in a conspicuous place next to the video gaming terminal.
(Ord. 714-12, 8-6-2012)
3-2-11: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
Any licensee may renew his license at the expiration thereof; provided, that
the licensee is then qualified to receive a license. The requirements and
procedures for obtaining the renewal of a license shall be the same as that
provided in the case of an original application for a license; provided,
however, that any application for renewal shall be filed with the Village Clerk
not less than thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the license. The
failure to renew a license as prescribed or to pay the required annual license
fee before the expiration date shown on the license being renewed shall result
in the lapse of the license. (Ord. 714-12, 8-6-2012)
3-2-12: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
A.   Authority To Suspend Or Revoke; Citation And Notice Of Hearing: The Mayor
may revoke or suspend any license issued by him if he determines that the
licensee has violated any of the provisions of the Illinois Video Gaming Act,
this chapter, or any applicable rule or regulations established by the Illinois
Gaming Board. No such license shall be so revoked or suspended except after a
public hearing by the Mayor and written notice to the licensee affording the
licensee an opportunity to appear and defend. All such proceedings shall be
instituted by a written citation. Said citation shall state the particular
provision, rule, or regulation alleged to have been violated and shall be
signed by Mayor, or his or her designee. Said citation and a notice of hearing
shall be served on the licensee named therein, not less than three (3) calendar
days prior to the date specified in the notice of hearing. Service of the
citation and notice of hearing on the agent or employee of the licensee shall
constitute service on the licensee. If the licensee's whereabouts are unknown
or reasonable attempts to serve the licensee have failed, service shall be by
publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the Village. Said
licensee named in the citation and notice of hearing shall appear at the time
and place designated in the citation and notice of hearing.
B.   Hearing: The hearing shall be conducted under the rules issued by the
Mayor. Such rules shall be consistent with the nature of the proceedings and
shall ensure that each party may present evidence, cross examine witnesses, and
be represented by legal counsel. All such hearings shall be open to the public,
and the Mayor shall reduce all evidence to writing and shall maintain an
official record of the proceedings.
C.   Mayor's Determination: The Mayor, within five (5) calendar days after such
hearing, if he determines after such hearing that the license should be
suspended or revoked, shall state the reason or reasons for such determination
in a written order, and either the period of suspension for a license or that
the license has been revoked. The period of the suspension or the declaration
of revocation and all costs shall be clearly set forth in said written order.
All costs of the public hearing incurred by the Village shall be charged to the
licensee or upon a determination of a violation and the issuance of an order
setting forth a suspension or revocation. A copy of the written order shall be
served on the licensee within the five (5) calendar days after the hearing.
Service of the written order on the agent or employee of the licensee shall
constitute service on the licensee. If the licensee's whereabouts are unknown
or reasonable attempts to serve the licensee have failed, service shall be by
publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the Village.
D.   Appeals: Any review of decisions of the Mayor shall be as provided in
section 3-101 et seq., of the Illinois Code of Civil Procedure. (Ord. 714-12,
8-6-2012)
3-2-13: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
A.   Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2-1, any person violating
any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be deemed
guilty of a civil ordinance violation and shall be fined not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed to be committed
on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
B.   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
provision of this chapter, by any officer, director, manager or other agent or
employee of any licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act of such
employer or licensee, and the employer or licensee shall be punishable in the
same manner as if the act or omission had been done or omitted by him
personally.
C.   For violations of this chapter, the penalty provided in subsection A of
this section is in addition to, not in lieu of, any administrative action taken
by the Mayor as contained in section
 3-2-12 of this chapter. (Ord. 714-12, 8-6-2012)
CHAPTER 3
SOLICITORS, TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, AND ITINERANT VENDORS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Door-To-Door Solicitation
3-3-2: Transient Merchant Or Itinerant Vendor
3-3-1: DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATION:
A.   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
Section
3-3-1, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
APPLICANT:    The applicant for a License authorizing a Person to engage in Door-to-Door
              Commercial Solicitation.
              Attempting to make personal contact with any person at his or her residence,
              without prior invitation by or appointment with the resident for the primary
              purpose of:
              a.   Attempting to sell, for present or future delivery, any goods, wares, or
              merchandise, newspaper or magazine subscriptions, or any services to be performed
              immediately or in the future, whether or not the Person has, carries, or exposes
DOOR-TO-DOOR  a sample of such goods, wares, or merchandise, and whether or not the Person is
COMMERCIAL    collecting advance payments for such sales and services;
SOLICITATION: b.   Seeking or attempting to obtain contributions of any money or any other
              thing of value for the benefit of any association, organization, corporation, or
              program, excluding those defined under Door-to-Door Non-Commercial Solicitation;
              or,
              c.   Personally delivering to the resident a handbill or flyer advertising a
              commercial event, activity, good, or service that is offered to the resident for
              purchase at a location away from the residence or at a future time.
              Attempting to make personal contact with any person at his or her residence,
              without prior specific invitation by or appointment with the resident for the
              primary purpose of:
              a.   Seeking or asking for a gift or donation for the benefit of any bona fide
              religious, charitable, or not-for-profit organization, provided that such
              organization has received federal tax exemption pursuant to the Internal Revenue
              Code, 26 USC Section 501(c);
              b.   Soliciting the sale of goods, wares, or merchandise for present or future
DOOR-TO-DOOR  delivery, or the sale of services to be performed immediately or in the future,
NON-          with the entire proceeds of such sale to be paid directly to, or used exclusively
COMMERCIAL    for the benefit of a bona fide religious, charitable, or not-for-profit
SOLICITATION: organization, provided that such organization has received federal tax exemption
              pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code, 26 USC Section 501(c);
              c.   Personally delivering to the resident a handbill or flyer advertising a
              future not-for-profit event, activity, good, or service;
              d.   Distribution of religious tracts and information on behalf of any religious
              organization; or
              e.   Door-to-door canvassing and pamphleteering as a vehicle for the
              dissemination of ideas, views, or opinions by one engaged in political activities
              as a candidate or on behalf of a candidate in a recognized federal, state, or
              local election, or on behalf of an issue on an upcoming ballot.
LICENSE:      The document issued by the Village Clerk authorizing a Person to engage in Door-
              to-Door Commercial Solicitation.
LICENSEE:     A Person granted a Door-to-Door Commercial Solicitation License as provided for
              herein.
              Any natural person, firm, partnership, joint venture, club, company, association,
              syndicate, society, business trust, organization, institution, agency,
              corporation, limited liability company, proprietorship, contractor, supplier,
              vendor, vendee, operator, or other legal entity. It shall also include an
              executor, administrator, trustee, receiver or other representative appointed
PERSON:       according to law. Whenever the word “Person” appears in any subsection of this
              Section
              3-3-1 prescribing a penalty or fine, as to partnerships or associations, the word
              shall include the partners or members thereof, and as to corporations or limited
              liability company, shall include the officers, agents or members thereof who are
              responsible for any violation of this section.
              The United States of America, the State of Illinois, any county, municipality,
              school district, special district, and any other kind of district, agency,
PUBLIC        instrumentality, or political subdivision thereof organized pursuant to law and
ENTITY:       any separate entity created by intergovernmental contract or cooperation only
              between or among the federal, state, county, municipality, school district,
              special district, and every other kind of district, agency, instrumentality, or
              political subdivision thereof.
              A private residence in the Village including, but not limited to, any condominium
RESIDENCE:    units, multi-family housing units, and apartments, and shall include the yards,
              grounds, or hallways thereof.
VILLAGE:      The Village of Dieterich, Illinois.
 
B.   Door-To-Door Commercial Solicitation License Required.
   1.   Requirement: No Person shall establish, carry on, conduct, or engage in
Door-to-Door Commercial Solicitation at a Residence without first obtaining a
duly issued and authorized License issued by the Village, authorizing such
Door-to-Door Commercial Solicitation. Notwithstanding anything contained in
this Section
3-3-1, persons engaged in Non-Commercial Door-to-Door Solicitation are not
required to obtain a License.
   2.   Application for License: Any Person desiring to secure a License from
the Village shall complete and file with the Village Clerk an application for a
License on such forms as prescribed by the Village Clerk. An application for a
License shall include at least the following information:
      a.   Applicant’s true and correct name, and any former names or aliases;
      b.   Applicant’s business name and permanent business address (which must
include a street address), residence address of the principal of the Applicant
and, if the Applicant is a partnership, corporation, or limited liability
company, the name and residence address of each officer, shareholder, member,
partner, etc.;
      c.   The applicant’s registration number under the Retailer’s Occupation
Tax Act;
      d.   If Applicant is an Illinois limited partnership, a copy of the filed
certificate of limited partnership and a certificate of good standing from the
Illinois Secretary of State must be attached. If Applicant is a foreign limited
partnership, a copy of the filed certificate of limited partnership from the
Illinois Secretary of State for admission to transact business as a foreign
limited partnership in Illinois must be attached. If Applicant is an Illinois
corporation, a copy of the articles of incorporation and a certificate of good
standing from the Illinois Secretary of State must be attached. If the
Applicant is a foreign corporation, a certificate from the Illinois Secretary
of State to conduct business in Illinois as a foreign corporation must be
attached. If Applicant is an Illinois limited liability company, a copy of the
articles of organization and a certificate of good standing from the Illinois
Secretary of State must be attached. If the Applicant is a foreign limited
liability company, a certificate from the Illinois Secretary of State to
conduct business in Illinois as a foreign limited liability company must be
attached;
      e.   The name, address, and phone number of Applicant’s immediate
supervisor, if any;
      f.   A brief explanation of the nature and duration of the Applicant’s
proposed solicitation activity that requires a License under this Section
3-3-1;
      g.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a violation of any
of the provisions of this Section
3-3-1, and whether the Applicant’s License has ever been revoked. If the
Applicant is a partnership, corporation, or limited liability company, whether
any officer, shareholder, member, partner of said partnership, corporation, or
limited liability company has ever been convicted of a violation of any of the
provisions of this Chapter 3 or had a License revoked;
      h.   Whether the Applicant’s permit, license, or registration in
connection with soliciting has ever been revoked by any other jurisdiction and
an explanation of the circumstances;
      i.   A complete list of all persons to be authorized to solicit under the
License, and for each such person authorized to solicit under the License, the
following information:
         (1)   True and correct name, and any former names or aliases, phone
number, and date of birth;
         (2)   Proof of identification by submittal of any of the following
that bears a photograph of sufficient quality to identify the person:
            (A)   A valid U.S. driver’s license or identification card issued
by any state;
            (B)   A valid United States uniformed service identification card;
            (C)   A valid U.S. passport; or,
            (D)   U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services Green Card;
      j.   Whether the Applicant, or anyone authorized to solicit under the
License, has ever been convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws
of the State of Illinois or any other state or federal law of the United States
or is a registered sex offender. If the Applicant is a partnership,
corporation, or limited liability company, whether any officer, shareholder,
member, partner of said partnership, corporation, or limited liability company
has ever been convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws of the
State of Illinois or any other state or federal law of the United States or is
a registered sex offender;
      k.   Any other information determined by the Village Clerk, in his/her
sole discretion, to be relevant; and,
      l.   The License Fee imposed under division B.3. of this Section
3-3-1.
   3.   License Fee: An application for a License shall be accompanied by the
following applicable fee(s):
      a.   Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250.00) application fee; plus,
      b.   Fifty Dollar ($50.00) fee for each person which applicants seeks to
authorize to solicit under the License.
   4.   Issuance or Denial of License.
      a.   Within ten (10) business days of receipt of any application, the
Village Clerk or his/her designee shall grant or deny the requested License and
give written notice to the Applicant of the decision.
      b.   The Village Clerk shall issue the license to the Applicant unless
he/she shall find one (1) or more of the following conditions exist:
         (1)   The Applicant failed to supply all of the information requested
on the application;
         (2)   The Applicant gave materially false, fraudulent, or untruthful
information on the application;
         (3)   The Applicant has not fully complied with this Section or any
other applicable state, federal, or local laws or regulations;
         (4)   The Applicant has previously had a License revoked pursuant to
any provision in this Chapter 3;
         (5)   That the Applicant, or anyone authorized to solicit under the
License, ever been convicted or completed any sentence of imprisonment within
the last five years of any offense relating to theft, burglary or fraud, or the
Applicant, or anyone authorized to solicit under the License, has ever been
convicted of any felony sex offense as defined in the Illinois Criminal Code of
1961, 720 ILCS 5/1-1, et seq., felony offense related to use of a firearm,
manslaughter, first or second degree murder as defined by the Illinois Criminal
Code of 1961, 720 ILCS 5/1-1, et seq. or home invasion as defined by the
Illinois Criminal Code of 1961, or any similar offense under the laws of United
States or another state;
         (6)   The Applicant is delinquent of any debt owed to the Village.
      c.    An applicant may appeal the denial of a license to the Village
Clerk by serving written notice of such appeal to the Village President within
five days of receiving written notice of denial from the Village Clerk. The
decision on the application shall be final unless the appeal is timely filed.
An appeal shall not stay the decision on the issuance of a license. The
Applicant’s written request for a hearing shall set forth the grounds on which
the denial is challenged. The hearing shall be conducted by the Village
President. At the hearing the Village President may receive oral and written
testimony regarding the application. Hearings shall be conducted under the
rules issued by the Village President, which rules shall be consistent with the
nature of the proceedings and shall ensure that each party may present
evidence, cross-examine witnesses, and be represented by legal counsel.
      d.   The Village President shall conduct the hearing within ten (10)
business days after receipt of the Applicant’s written request for a hearing
unless the Applicant requests an extension in writing. The Village President
shall render a written decision and issue notice thereof to the Applicant
within five (5) days after the conclusion of the hearing. The written decision
of the Village President shall be final.
      e.   Failure of the Village Clerk to give timely notice of action on an
Application, or the failure of the Village President to timely conduct or give
notice of the Village President’s decision on an appeal within the limitations
of time specified above shall entitle the Applicant to the issuance of a
temporary license upon written demand therefor filed by the Applicant with the
Village President. Such a temporary license shall only be valid until the third
day after the Village Clerk gives notice of action on the application or the
Village President gives notice of the decision on the appeal.
   5.   Term of License: Each License issued under the provisions of this
Section
3-3-1 shall be valid for a period of up to one (1) year, provided however, that
each License shall terminate on the thirty-first day of January next following
its issuance, unless sooner revoked.
   6.   Continuing Obligation to Supply Information: The requirement to supply
all information required in Application for License as provided for in division
B.2. of this Section
3-3-1 is a continuing one. If any supplied information or statements become
invalid, it is the duty of the holder of a License to provide updated
information to the Village.
   7.   Revocation or Suspension of License.
      a.   The Village President or the Village President’s designee shall have
the authority to revoke or suspend any License issued under this Section
3-3-1. In addition to the provisions contained in this Section
3-3-1, the Village President shall have the authority to establish the rules
and regulations for the conduct of a hearing relating to the revocation or
suspension of a License.
      b.   The Village President or the Village President’s designee shall have
the authority to revoke or suspend a license for any one (1) or more of the
following reasons:
         (1)   The Licensee has not complied with provisions of this Section
3-3-1 or is in violation of any other applicable federal, state, or local laws
or regulations;
         (2)   The Licensee gave false, fraudulent, untruthful or
misrepresentative information on the original or renewal application form;
         (3)   The Licensee becomes ineligible to obtain or hold a License;
         (4)   The Licensee is delinquent on any debt owed to the Village;
         (5)   The conviction of the Licensee, or anyone authorized to solicit
under the License, of any offense relating to theft, burglary or fraud, or the
Applicant has ever been convicted of any felony sex offense as defined in the
Illinois Criminal Code of 1961, 720 ILCS 5/1-1, et seq., felony offense related
to use of a firearm, manslaughter, first or second degree murder as defined by
the Illinois Criminal Code of 1961, 720 ILCS 5/1-1, et seq. or home invasion as
defined by the Illinois Criminal Code of 1961, or any similar offense under the
laws of United States or another state.
      c.   Prior to revocation or suspension of a License, the Village
President or the Village President’s designee shall investigate whether
probable cause for revocation or suspension may exist and if so, shall notify
the Licensee in writing of the reason(s) for the proposed revocation or
suspension and shall grant such Licensee the opportunity to appear before the
Village President or the Village President’s designee at a time and place
specified within such notice. Such hearing shall be held not less than five (5)
days after the notice is received by the Licensee. Hearing shall be conducted
under rules issued by the Village President. Such rules shall be consistent
with the nature of the proceedings and shall ensure that each party may present
evidence, cross-examine witnesses, and be represented by legal counsel. If,
after the hearing, the Village President or the Village President’s designee
finds that the license shall be revoked or suspended, the Village President or
the Village President’s designee shall issue a written order revoking or
suspending such License.
      d.   In cases of suspension, the written order shall specify the period,
if any, of suspension or the condition on which the suspension order shall be
lifted upon remedial action taken by the Licensee.
C.   Prohibited Solicitation.
   1.    It is hereby declared to be the policy of the Village that the
occupant or occupants of any Residence in the Village shall make the
determination of whether solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited to their
Residence.
   2.   No Person may engage in Door-to-Door Commercial Solicitation at any
residence without prior invitation from the occupant if the Residence:
      a.   is registered with the Village’s “No Knock” registry for Door-to-
Door Commercial Solicitation; or,
      b.   prominently displays a notice stating “No Commercial Solicitors” or
“No Commercial Solicitation” on or near the main entrance or door to any
dwelling unit in the Residence.
   3.   No Person may engage in any Door-to-Door Commercial Solicitation or
Door-to-Door Non-Commercial Solicitation upon any residence without prior
invitation from the occupant thereof if the Residence:
      a.   is registered with the Village’s “No Knock” registry for Door-to-
Door Commercial Solicitation and Door-to-Door Non-Commercial Solicitation; or,
      b.   prominently displays a notice stating “No Solicitors” or “No
Solicitation” on or near the main entrance or door to any dwelling unit in the
Residence.
   4.   No Person may engage in Door-to-Door Commercial Solicitation or Door-
to-Door Non-Commercial Solicitation at any Residence after the owner or
occupant asks the person to leave the Residence.
D.   “No Knock” Registry.
   1.   An occupant or owner of a Residence may prohibit Door-to-Door
Commercial Solicitation and/or Door-to-Door Commercial Non-Solicitation without
prior invitation at his or her Residence by registering the Residence with the
Village Clerk’s office.
   2.   The Village Clerk will maintain and make available a “No Knock”
registry at Village Hall, indicating those occupants or owners prohibiting
Door-to-Door Commercial Solicitation and/or Door-to-Door Non-Commercial
Solicitation at his or her Residence.
E.   Door-To-Door Solicitation.
   1.   Every Person licensed pursuant to this Section must at all times
possess and display their License in a conspicuous place while soliciting, and
shall produce the same whenever requested to do so by a police officer, county
deputy, or other person.
   2.   Not more than two individuals will engage in Door-to-Door Commercial
Solicitation or Door-to-Door Non-Commercial Solicitation at any Residence at
the same time without permission of the Occupant or Owner of a Residence.
   3.   Hours of Operation: A Licensee shall be allowed to conduct Door-to-Door
Commercial Solicitation only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Monday
through Saturday.
F.   Penalties.
   1.   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, any Person violating, disobeying,
omitting, neglecting, or refusing to comply with or unlawfully resisting or
opposing the enforcement of any of the provisions of this Section
3-3-1 shall, upon conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of a civil ordinance
violation and shall be fined not less than Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250.00)
nor more than Seven Hundred Fifty Dollars ($750.00) for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed to be committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
   2.   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of
any provision of this Section
3-3-1, by any officer, director, manager or other agent or employee of any
holder of a License or any Person subject to the provisions of this Section
3-3-1, shall be deemed and held to be the act of such employer or holder of a
License and the employer or holder of a License shall be punishable in the same
manner as if the act or omission had been done or omitted by him personally.
   3.   For violations of this chapter, the penalty provided in division F.1.
of this section is in addition to, not in lieu of, any administrative action
taken by the Village designee as contained within division B.7. of this section
3-3-1. (Ord. 1035-2020, 7-6-2020)
3-3-2: TRANSIENT MERCHANT OR ITINERANT VENDOR:
A.   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
Section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
APPLICANT:     The applicant for a License authorizing a Person to conduct business as a
               Transient Merchant or Itinerant Vendor.
               Any Person who transports tangible personal property for retail sale within the
               Village, who does not maintain within the Village, an established office,
ITINERANT      distribution house, sales house, warehouse, service center or residence from
VENDOR:        which such business is conducted. The term shall not include any Person who
               delivers tangible personal property within the Village who is fulfilling an order
               for such property which was solicited or placed by mail or other means.
LICENSE:       The document issued by the Village Clerk authorizing a Person to conduct business
               as a Transient Merchant or Itinerant Vendor.
LICENSEE:      A Person granted a Transient Merchant or Itinerant Vendor License as provided for
               herein.
MOBILE FOOD    A self-contained food service operation, located in a readily movable, motorized,
SERVICE        wheeled or towed vehicle or other unit, used to store, prepare, display or serve
ESTABLISHMENT: food intended for individual portion service.
               Any natural person, firm, partnership, joint venture, club, company, association,
               syndicate, society, business trust, organization, institution, agency,
               corporation, limited liability company, proprietorship, contractor, supplier,
               vendor, vendee, operator, or other legal entity. It shall also include an
PERSON:        executor, administrator, trustee, receiver or other representative appointed
               according to law. Whenever the word “Person” appears in any Section of this
               Ordinance prescribing a penalty or fine, as to partnerships or associations, the
               word shall include the partners or members thereof, and as to corporations or
               limited liability company, shall include the officers, agents or members thereof
               who are responsible for any violation of this Ordinance.
               Any Person who is engaged temporarily in the retail sale of goods, wares or
               merchandise in this State and who, for the purpose of conducting such business,
               occupies any building, room, vehicle, structure of any kind, or vacant lot. The
               term does not apply to any Person selling goods, wares or merchandise which are
TRANSIENT      raised, produced or manufactured by him; to any person selling vegetables, fruit
MERCHANT:      or perishable farm products at an established Village market; to any person
               operating a store or refreshment stand at a resort; to any person operating a
               stand or booth on or adjacent to property owned by him or upon which he resides;
               to any person operating a stand or booth at a State or county fair; to any Person
               operating a stand or booth at a trade show, exposition, convention or similar
               event; or to any Person operating a Mobile Food Service Establishment.
VILLAGE:       The Village of Dieterich, Illinois.
 
B.   License Required.
   1.   Requirement: No Person shall establish, carry on, conduct, or engage in
business as a Transient Merchant or Itinerant Vendor within the corporate
limits of the Village, without first complying with the requirements of Section
2a of the Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act (35 ILCS 120/2a) by obtaining a
certificate of registration and, if a bond or other security is required, by
posting bond or other approved security, as well as without first obtaining a
duly issued and authorized License issued by the Village, authorizing such a
Transient Merchant or Itinerant Vendor.
   2.   Application for License: Any Person desiring to secure a License from
the Village shall complete and file with the Village Clerk an application for a
License on such forms as prescribed by the Village Clerk. An application for a
License shall include at least the following information:
      a.   Applicant’s true and correct name, and any former names or aliases;
      b.   Applicant’s business name and permanent business address (which must
include a street address), residence address of the principal of the Applicant
and, if the Applicant is a partnership, corporation, or limited liability
company, the name and residence address of each officer, shareholder, member,
partner, etc.;
      c.   The applicant’s registration number under the Retailer’s Occupation
Tax Act;
      d.   If Applicant is an Illinois limited partnership, a copy of the filed
certificate of limited partnership and a certificate of good standing from the
Illinois Secretary of State must be attached. If Applicant is a foreign limited
partnership, a copy of the filed certificate of limited partnership from the
Illinois Secretary of State for admission to transact business as a foreign
limited partnership in Illinois must be attached. If Applicant is an Illinois
corporation, a copy of the articles of incorporation and a certificate of good
standing from the Illinois Secretary of State must be attached. If the
Applicant is a foreign corporation, a certificate from the Illinois Secretary
of State to conduct business in Illinois as a foreign corporation must be
attached. If Applicant is an Illinois limited liability company, a copy of the
articles of organization and a certificate of good standing from the Illinois
Secretary of State must be attached. If the Applicant is a foreign limited
liability company, a certificate from the Illinois Secretary of State to
conduct business in Illinois as a foreign limited liability company must be
attached;
      e.   The location at which the Applicant intends to do business, and
proof of the property owner’s permission to do business at that location;
      f.   A brief explanation of the nature and duration of the Applicant’s
proposed activity that requires a License under this Section
3-3-2;
      g.   A complete inventory of the goods the Applicant intends to offer for
sale;
      h.   A list of all licenses to conduct business as a Transient Merchant
or an Itinerant Vendor obtained by the Applicant in this State in the 12 months
preceding the date of filing of the application, and disclosure of any
revocation of such license, permit, or registration.
      i.   Whether the Applicant’s permit, license, or registration in
connection with soliciting has ever been revoked by any other jurisdiction and
an explanation of the circumstances;
      j.   Any other information determined by the Village Clerk, in his/her
sole discretion, to be relevant; and,
      k.   The License Fee imposed under division B.3. Section
3-3-2.
   3.   License Fee: An application for a License shall be accompanied by a One
Hundred Dollar ($100.00) application fee.
   4.   Bond Required.
      a.   Prior to receiving a License issued under this chapter, the Licensee
shall file with the Village Clerk a surety bond or shall make a cash deposit,
unless waived by ordinance adopted by the Village Board of Trustees. The amount
of the bond or deposit shall be equal to 50% of the wholesale value of the
merchandise that the Licensee intends to offer for sale; however, the amount of
the bond or deposit shall not be less than $1,000 nor more than $10,000.
      b.   The Village Clerk shall transfer any deposit or bond provided under
Paragraph 4a to the Attorney General of the State of Illinois within fourteen
(14) days after the Licensee ceases to do business in the Village, and the
Attorney General shall hold such deposit or bond for two (2) years for the
benefit of any person who suffers loss or damage as a result of the purchase of
merchandise from said person licensed under this Section
3-3-2 or as the result of the negligent or intentionally tortious act of the
person licensed under this Section
3-3-2.
      c.   The Attorney General shall pay any portion of the bond or deposit to
any person in accordance with the order of a court without making an
independent finding as to the amount of the bond or deposit that is payable to
that person.
      d.   Any balance of said deposit held by the Attorney General two (2)
years after the expiration of a License of a Licensee under this under this
Section
3-3-2 shall be refunded to the Licensee.
   5.   Issuance or denial of license.
      a.   Within ten (10) business days of receipt of any application, the
Village Clerk or his/her designee shall grant or deny the requested License and
give written notice to the Applicant of the decision.
      b.   The Village Clerk shall issue the license to the Applicant unless
he/she shall find one (1) or more of the following conditions exist:
         (1)   The Applicant failed to supply all of the information requested
on the application;
         (2)   The Applicant gave materially false, fraudulent, or untruthful
information on the application;
         (3)   The Applicant has not fully complied with this Ordinance or any
other applicable state, federal, or local laws or regulations, including the
Transient Merchant Act of 1987, 225 ILCS 465/1, et seq.
         (4)   The Applicant has previously had a License revoked pursuant to
any provision of this Chapter 3;
         (5)   The Applicant is delinquent of any debt owed to the Village.
      c.   An applicant may appeal the denial of a license to the Village Clerk
by serving written notice of such appeal to the Village President within five
days of receiving written notice of denial from the Village Clerk. The decision
on the application shall be final unless the appeal is timely filed. An appeal
shall not stay the decision on the issuance of a license. The Applicant’s
written request for a hearing shall set forth the grounds on which the denial
is challenged. The hearing shall be conducted by the Village President. At the
hearing the Village President may receive oral and written testimony regarding
the application. Hearings shall be conducted under the rules issued by the
Village President, which rules shall be consistent with the nature of the
proceedings and shall ensure that each party may present evidence, cross-
examine witnesses, and be represented by legal counsel.
      d.   The Village President shall conduct the hearing within ten (10)
business days after receipt of the Applicant’s written request for a hearing
unless the Applicant requests an extension in writing. The Village President
shall render a written decision and issue notice thereof to the Applicant
within five (5) days after the conclusion of the hearing. The written decision
of the Village President shall be final.
      e.   Failure of the Village Clerk to give timely notice of action on an
Application, or the failure of the Village President to timely conduct or give
notice of the Village President’s decision on an appeal within the limitations
of time specified above shall entitle the Applicant to the issuance of a
temporary license upon written demand therefor filed by the Applicant with the
Village President. Such a temporary license shall only be valid until the third
day after the Village Clerk gives notice of action on the application or the
Village President gives notice of the decision on the appeal.
   6.   Term of License. Each License issued under the provisions of this
Section
3-3-2 shall be valid for a period of up to one (1) year, provided however, that
each License shall terminate on the thirty-first day of January next following
its issuance, unless sooner revoked.
   7.   Continuing Obligation to Supply Information: The requirement to supply
all information required in Application for License as provided for in division
B.2. of this Section
3-3-2 is a continuing one. If any supplied information or statements become
invalid, it is the duty of the holder of a License to provide updated
information to the Village.
   8.   Revocation or Suspension of License.
      a.   The Village President or the Village President’s designee shall have
the authority to revoke or suspend any License issued under this Section
3-3-2. In addition to the provisions contained in this Section
3-3-2, the Village President shall have the authority to establish the rules
and regulations for the conduct of a hearing relating to the revocation or
suspension of a License.
      b.   The Village President or the Village President’s designee shall have
the authority to revoke or suspend a license for any one (1) or more of the
following reasons:
         (1)   The Licensee has not complied with provisions of this Ordinance
or is in violation of any other applicable federal, state, or local laws or
regulations, including the Transient Merchant Act of 1987, 225 ILCS 465/1, et
seq;
         (2)   The Licensee gave false, fraudulent, untruthful or
misrepresentative information on the original or renewal application form;
         (3)   The Licensee becomes ineligible to obtain or hold a License; or,
         (4)   The Licensee is delinquent on any debt owed to the Village;
      c.   Prior to revocation or suspension of a License, the Village
President or the Village President’s designee shall investigate whether
probable cause for revocation or suspension may exist and if so, shall notify
the Licensee in writing of the reason(s) for the proposed revocation or
suspension and shall grant such Licensee the opportunity to appear before the
Village President or the Village President’s designee at a time and place
specified within such notice. Such hearing shall be held not less than five (5)
days after the notice is received by the Licensee. Hearing shall be conducted
under rules issued by the Village President. Such rules shall be consistent
with the nature of the proceedings and shall ensure that each party may present
evidence, cross-examine witnesses, and be represented by legal counsel. If,
after the hearing, the Village President or the Village President’s designee
finds that the license shall be revoked or suspended, the Village President or
the Village President’s designee shall issue a written order revoking or
suspending such License.
      d.   In cases of suspension, the written order shall specify the period,
if any, of suspension or the condition on which the suspension order shall be
lifted upon remedial action taken by the Licensee.
C.   Penalties.
   1.   If any Person makes retail sales as a Transient Merchant or Itinerant
Vendor without having obtained a License under this Chapter, the Village police
department or County Sheriff Department may hold the inventory, truck, or other
personal property of the Person until said Person obtains a License to conduct
business as a Transient Merchant or Itinerant Vendor.
   2.   If the property has been held by the police department or sheriff’s
department for more than 60 days and the Person whose property is being held
has not obtained a License under this Section, the police department, sheriff’s
department, or the Village, may petition the Effingham County Circuit Court for
an order for the sale of the property being held.
      a.   If the court finds that the Person whose property is held has not
obtained a License under this Section, the court may order the police
department, sheriff department, or Village to sell the property.
      b.   Proceeds of the sale of the property, less reimbursement to the
police department, sheriff’s department, or Village of the reasonable expenses
of storage and sale of the property, shall be deposited in the treasury of the
Village.
   3.   Notwithstanding any other remedies available to the Village pursuant to
this Section
3-3-2, any Person violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting, or refusing to
comply with or unlawfully resisting or opposing the enforcement of any of the
provisions of this Section
3-3-2 shall, upon conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of a civil ordinance
violation and shall be fined not less than Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250.00)
nor more than Seven Hundred Fifty Dollars ($750.00) for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed to be committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
   4.   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of
any provision of this Section
3-3-2, by any officer, director, manager or other agent or employee of any
holder of a License or any Person subject to the provisions of this Section
3-3-2 shall be deemed and held to be the act of such employer or holder of a
License and the employer or holder of a License shall be punishable in the same
manner as if the act or omission had been done or omitted by him personally.
   5.   For violations of this chapter, the penalty provided in division C.3.
of this section is in addition to, not in lieu of, any administrative action
taken by the Village designee as contained within division B.8. of this
section. (Ord. 1035-2020, 7-6-2020)
CHAPTER 4
MOBILE FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: Permit Required
3-4-3: Operation Requirements For Mobile Food Service Establishments
3-4-4: Mobile Food Service Vendor Permit Suspension Or Revocation
3-4-5: Penalties
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS
 
               A self-contained food service operation, located in a readily movable, motorized,
MOBILE FOOD    wheeled or towed vehicle or other unit, used to store, prepare, display or serve
SERVICE        food intended for individual portion service. For purposes of this chapter, the
ESTABLISHMENT: term “Mobile Food Service Establishment” shall also mean a tent area used to
               prepare, display or serve food intended for individual portion service.
               Any natural person, firm, partnership, joint venture, club, company, association,
               syndicate, society, business trust, organization, institution, agency, government
               corporation, municipal corporation, district or other political subdivision,
               corporation, limited liability company, proprietorship, contractor, supplier,
               vendor, vendee, operator, or other legal entity. It shall also include an
PERSON:        executor, administrator, trustee, receiver or other representative appointed
               according to law. Whenever the word “Person” appears in any section of this
               chapter prescribing a penalty or fine, as to partnerships or associations, the
               word shall include the partners of members thereof, and as to corporations or
               limited liability company, shall include the officers, agents or members thereof
               who are responsible for any violation of this chapter. (Ord. 1043-2020, 9-21-
               2020)
 
3-4-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
A.   Requirement: No Person shall operate, conduct, or maintain a Mobile Food
Service Establishment within the corporate limits of the Village of Dieterich,
Illinois, unless such Person, shall have first obtained a duly issued and
authorized permit issued by the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, authorizing
such Mobile Food Service Establishment (hereinafter referred to as the “Mobile
Food Service Vendor Permit”).
B.   Application for Permit: Any Person desiring to secure a Mobile Food
Service Vendor Permit from the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, shall complete
and file with the Village Clerk an application for a Mobile Food Service Vendor
Permit on such forms as prescribed by the Village Clerk (hereinafter referred
to as the “Mobile Food Service Vendor Permit Application”). A Mobile Food
Service Vendor Permit Application shall include at least the following
information:
   1.   Name, business name, permanent business address (which must include a
street address), residence address of the principal of the applicant and, if
the applicant is a partnership, corporation, or limited liability company, the
name and residence address of each officer, shareholder, member, partner, etc.;
   2.   Copy of current state photo identification or driver’s license;
   3.   Description of the food and beverages to be sold in or through the
Mobile Food Service Establishment;
   4.   The location or locations where the Mobile Food Service Establishment
will operate;
   5.   The date or dates when the Mobile Food Service Establishment will
operate;
   6.   Whether the applicant seeks an annual permit or a one-day permit;
   7.   The date, or approximate date, of the applicant’s latest previous
application for a permit under this chapter, if any;
   8.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter, and whether the applicant’s permit has ever
been revoked. If the applicant is a partnership, corporation, or limited
liability company, whether any officer, shareholder, member, partner of said
partnership, corporation, or limited liability company has ever been convicted
of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or had a permit
revoked;
   9.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of the commission of a
felony under the laws of the State of Illinois or any other state or federal
law of the United States or is a registered sex offender. If the applicant is a
partnership, corporation, or limited liability company, whether any officer,
shareholder, member, partner of said partnership, corporation, or limited
liability company has ever been convicted of the commission of a felony under
the laws of the State of Illinois or any other state or federal law of the
United States or is a registered sex offender;
   10.   The applicant’s registration number under the Retailer’s Occupation
Tax Act; and,
   11.   In addition to information required above, an application for a permit
to operate a Mobile Food Service Establishment on Village property or a right-
of-way shall include:
      a.   A signed statement that the applicant shall hold harmless the
Village, its officers and employees and shall indemnify the Village, its
officers and employees for any claims for damage to property or injury to
persons which may be occasioned by any activity carried on under the terms of
the permit. Applicant shall furnish and maintain public liability and property
damage insurance as will protect applicant, property owner, and the Village
from all claims from damage to property or bodily injury, including death,
which may arise from operations under the permit or in connection therewith.
The insurance shall provide coverage of not less than one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00) for bodily injury for each person, five hundred thousand
dollars ($500,000.00) for each occurrence and not less than fifty thousand
dollars ($50,000.00) for property damage per occurrence. The insurance shall be
without prejudice to coverage otherwise existing, and shall have as additional
insured the Village, its officers and employees, on a primary, non-contributory
basis, and shall further provide that the policy shall not terminate or be
canceled prior to the expiration of the permit without thirty (30) days'
written notice to the Village Clerk;
      b.   A certificate of insurance as provided in this section;
      c.   Proof of registration with the Effingham County Health Department
and/or proof of a Certified Food Protection Management Certificate, as
applicable; and,
      d.   The tax ID number of the applicant.
C.   Inspection: Prior to the issuance and/or renewal of a Mobile Food Service
Vendor Permit, an applicant shall also present the Mobile Food Service
Establishment to the Clerk, or his/her designee, for an inspection to determine
whether the Mobile Food Service Establishment complies with the provisions of
this chapter and may be operated on the streets under the jurisdiction and
control of the Village of Dieterich, Illinois.
D.   Issuance of Permit: The Village Clerk, or his/her designee, is hereby
authorized and directed to issue such Mobile Food Service Vendor Permit in
accordance with this chapter if the Village Clerk, or his/her designee,
determines that the applicant and the Mobile Food Service Establishment comply
with the provisions of this chapter, and to further collect the required Mobile
Food Truck Permit Fee imposed under Paragraph E of this Section. No Mobile Food
Service Vendor Permit shall be issued to any Person:
   1.   Who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of the State of
Illinois or any other state or federal law of the United States, within five
(5) years of the date of the application;
   2.   Who is a registered sex offender;
   3.   Who has been twice convicted in the previous five (5) years of a
violation of any of the provisions of this Ordinance;
   4.   Whose license pursuant to this subchapter has been revoked in the
previous five (5) years;
   5.   Who is lacking an Effingham County Health Department certificate and/or
a Certified Food Protection Management Certificate, as applicable; or,
   6.   Who is lacking an Illinois Department of Revenue tax identification
number (unless not selling food for profit).
E.   Permit Fee: A Mobile Food Service Vendor Permit Application shall be
accompanied by a Twenty Dollar ($20.00) annual license fee, which shall be
deposited with the Village Clerk (hereinafter referred to as the “Mobile Food
Service Permit Fee”). The annual license shall be good for one year from the
date of issuance. Should a Mobile Food Service Vendor Permit Application be
denied, the Mobile Food Service Permit Fee shall be refunded to the applicant.
F.   Continuing Obligation to Supply Information: The requirement to supply all
information required in Mobile Food Service Vendor Permit Application as
provided for in Paragraph B of this Section is a continuing one. If any
supplied information or statements become invalid, it is the duty of the
Permittee of a Mobile Food Service Vendor Permit to provide updated information
to the Village of Dieterich, Illinois.
G.   Renewal:
   1.   Any Permittee may renew a Mobile Food Service Vendor Permit at the
expiration thereof provided, that the Permittee is then qualified to receive a
Mobile Food Service Vendor Permit. The requirements for and the procedures for
obtaining a renewal of a Mobile Food Service Vendor Permit shall be the same as
that provided for in case of an original application for a Mobile Food Service
Vendor Permit, however, any application for renewal of an annual Mobile Food
Service Vendor Permit shall be filed with the Village Clerk not less than
thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the annual Mobile Food Service
Vendor Permit.
   2.   The failure to renew a Mobile Food Service Vendor Permit as prescribed
or to pay the required Mobile Food Service Vendor Permit Fee before the
expiration date shown on the Mobile Food Service Vendor Permit being renewed
shall result in the lapse of the Mobile Food Service Vendor Permit.
H.   Privilege Granted by Mobile Food Service Vendor Permit: A Mobile Food
Service Vendor Permit issued under this chapter shall be purely a personal
privilege, good for a period of time listed in the Mobile Food Service Vendor
Permit, provided, in no event shall it exceed one (1) year after issuance, and
shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment,
garnishment or execution, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being
encumbered or hypothecated. Such Mobile Food Service Vendor Permit shall not
descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution, but it shall cease upon
the death of the Permittee of a Mobile Food Service Vendor Permit; provided
that, the executor of the will or administrator of the estate of any deceased
Permittee and the trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt Permittee, when such
estate consists in part of a Mobile Food Service Establishment, may continue
the business of the Mobile Food Service Establishment under order of the
appropriate court, and may exercise the privileges of the deceased, insolvent,
or bankrupt Permittee until the expiration of such Mobile Food Service Vendor
Permit or until six (6) months after the death, insolvency or bankruptcy of
such Permittee, whichever is the shorter period of time.
I.   Transfer: All Mobile Food Service Vendor Permits issued under this chapter
shall be considered personal and may not be transferred to any Person.
J.   License to be Posted: Every Permittee or holder of a Mobile Food Service
Vendor Permit under the provisions of this chapter shall cause the Mobile Food
Service Vendor Permit to be hung in plain view in a conspicuous place at or
near where the Mobile Food Service Establishment is operated.
K.   Exemption: Any obligation to obtain a Mobile Food Service Vendor Permit
under this Section, shall not apply to any farmers or gardeners selling the
produce, including vegetables, fruit, or perishable farm products, of their
farms and gardens. (Ord. 1043-2020, 9-21-2020; Ord. 1070-2021, 7-6-2021)
3-4-3: OPERATION REQUIREMENTS FOR MOBILE FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS:
No Person shall operate a Mobile Food Service Establishment except in
accordance with the following provisions:
A.   Mobile Food Service Establishments are allowed to operate within
designated vending areas daily between 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m., except where
indicated otherwise.
B.   Mobile Food Service Establishments are allowed to operate at a designated
vending area on a “first come, first served” basis.
C.   The Mobile Food Service Establishment, as well as the service area for the
operation of the Mobile Food Service Establishment, shall not block, obstruct,
or interfere with vehicular, bicycle or pedestrian flow.
D.   The Mobile Food Service Establishment, as well as the service area for the
operation of the Mobile Food Service Establishment, shall not block obstruct,
or interfere with the access of any public or private fire hydrant, or any
building’s fire department connection (FDC).
E.   The Mobile Food Service Establishment, as well as the service area for the
operation of the Mobile Food Service Establishment, shall not block, obstruct,
or interfere with any ingress or egress from any public or private
establishment.
F.   The Mobile Food Service Establishment shall be operated in a manner in
which to allow access for emergency vehicles, and shall be readily moveable in
a timely manner should access to the area be required for such emergency
vehicles.
G.   There shall be no tents, tables, chairs or other displays placed within
the designated vending areas. One portable sign board no greater than 6 square
feet in area may be placed within the designated service area near the Mobile
Food Service Establishment.
H.   Noise from Mobile Food Service Establishments, including, but limited to,
generators and music, shall not exceed 75 decibels as measured from 10 feet
away.
I.   Mobile Food Service Establishments shall collect all trash and debris
resulting from the Mobile Food Service Establishment within 100 feet of the
designated vending area.
J.   All decorations utilized by Mobile Food Service Establishments shall be
flame resistant.
K.   Any hot surfaces from cooking and heating devices contained on or within
the Mobile Food Service Establishment shall be guarded so that the public is
protected from physical contact.
L.   Fire Extinguishers:
   1.   All Mobile Food Service Establishments shall maintain a 4A:60-B:C, (10
lbs ABC red extinguisher) portable fire extinguisher, which shall be located in
a conspicuous location where it will be readily accessible and immediately
available for use near the point of egress.
   2.   If the Mobile Food Service Establishment cooking methods create grease
laden vapors, the Mobile Food Service Establishment shall maintain a 6L Class
“K” type portable extinguisher, which shall be located in a conspicuous
location where it will be readily accessible and immediately available for use
near the point of egress.
   3.   All required fire extinguishers shall bear a current inspection tag
validated within the past twelve months OR a receipt of purchase within the
last 12 months shall be available for inspection. Annual inspection shall be
performed by a licensed service provider.
   4.   All employees working in the Mobile Food Service Establishment shall be
trained in the proper use of the fire extinguishers.
M.   All Mobile Food Service Establishments shall reimburse the Village for any
and all electrical service utilized by the Mobile Food Service Establishment
from Village electrical service connections. The amount of such reimbursement
shall be calculated by the Village based on an estimated usage, as determined
by the Village at its sole discretion. (Ord. 1043-2020, 9-21-2020)
3-4-4: MOBILE FOOD SERVICE VENDOR PERMIT SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
A.   The Village of Dietrich, Illinois, Clerk and/or designee, may revoke or
suspend any Mobile Food Service Vendor Permit issued by the Village if the
Village of Dietrich, Illinois, Clerk and/or designee determines that the
Permittee has violated any of the provisions of this chapter. No such Mobile
Food Service Vendor Permit shall be so revoked or suspended except after a
public hearing by the Village of Dietrich, Illinois, Clerk and/or designee and
written notice to the Permittee affording such Permittee an opportunity to
appear and defend. All such proceedings shall be instituted by a written
citation. Said citation shall state the particular provision, rule, or
regulation alleged to have been violated and shall be signed by the Village of
Dieterich, Illinois, Clerk and/or designee. Said citation and a notice of
hearing shall be served on the Permittee named therein, not less than three (3)
calendar days prior to the date specified in the notice of hearing. Service of
the citation and notice of hearing on the agent or employee of the Permittee
shall constitute service on said Permittee. If the Permittee’s whereabouts are
unknown or reasonable attempts to serve the Permittee have failed, service
shall be by publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
Village of Dieterich. Said Permittee named in the citation and notice of
hearing shall appear at the time and place designed in said citation and notice
of hearing.
B.   The hearing shall be conducted under the rules issued by the Village of
Dieterich, Illinois, Clerk and/or designee. Such rules shall be consistent with
the nature of the proceedings and shall ensure that each party may present
evidence, cross-examine witnesses, and be represented by legal counsel. All
such hearings shall be open to the public and the Village of Dieterich,
Illinois, Clerk and/or designee shall reduce all evidence to writing and shall
maintain an official record of the proceedings.
C.   The Village of Dieterich, Illinois, Clerk and/or designee, within five (5)
calendar days after such hearing, if he/she determines after such hearing that
the Mobile Food Service Vendor Permit should be suspended or revoked, shall
state the reason or reasons for such determination in a written order, and
either the period of suspension for a Mobile Food Service Vendor Permit, or
that the Mobile Food Service Vendor Permit has been revoked. The period of the
suspension or the declaration of revocation, and all costs shall be clearly set
forth in said written order. All costs of the public hearing incurred by the
Village shall be charged to the Permittee or upon a determination of a
violation and the issuance of an order setting forth a suspension, or
revocation. A copy of the written order shall be served on the Permittee within
the five (5) calendar days after the hearing. Service of the written order on
the agent or employee of the Permittee shall constitute service on the
Permittee. If the Permittee’s whereabouts are unknown or reasonable attempts to
serve the Permittee have failed, service shall be by publication in a newspaper
of general circulation within the Village of Dieterich.
D.   Any review of decisions of the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, Clerk and/
or designee shall be as provided for in Section 5/3-101, et. seq. of the
Illinois Code of Civil Procedure.
E.   Temporary Emergency Suspension. Notwithstanding anything contained in this
chapter to the contrary, at any time, for the purposes of preserving the peace;
protecting the safety of the public; or abating any imminent, continuing public
nuisance, the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, Clerk and/or designee, Village of
Dieterich, Illinois, Clerk and/or designee may then issue a temporary emergency
suspension of that Mobile Food Service Vendor Permit, but in no case shall such
temporary emergency suspension exceed twenty-four (24) hours from the time of
its issuance, except as allowed by law or local ordinance. (Ord. 1043-2020, 9-
21-2020)
3-4-5: PENALTIES:
A.   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, any Person violating, disobeying, omitting,
neglecting, or refusing to comply with or unlawfully resisting or opposing the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be deemed guilty of a civil ordinance violation and shall be fined not
less than Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250.00) nor more than Seven Hundred Fifty
Dollars ($750.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed to be
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
B.   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
provision of this chapter, by any officer, director, manager or other agent or
employee of any holder of a Mobile Food Service Vendor Permit or any Person
subject to the provisions of this chapter, shall be deemed and held to be the
act of such employer or holder of a Mobile Food Service Vendor Permit and the
employer or holder of a Mobile Food Service Vendor Permit shall be punishable
in the same manner as if the act or omission had been done or omitted by him
personally.
C.   For violations of this chapter, the penalty provided in Paragraph A of
this section is in addition to, not in lieu of, any administrative action taken
by the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, Clerk and/or designee as contained
within Section
3-4-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 1043-2020, 9-21-2020)
TITLE 4
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Findings Adopted
4-1-2: Definitions
4-1-3: Specific Nuisances
4-1-3-1: Garbage, Refuse And Rubbish
4-1-3-2: Dangerous, Hazardous Materials
4-1-3-3: Vermin And Rodents
4-1-3-4: Outdoor Furniture
4-1-3-5: Accumulation Of Junk; Junkyards, Automobile Graveyards, Mobile Home
Salvage Yards And Scrap Processing Facilities
4-1-3-6: Weeds, Grass And Plants
4-1-3-7: Inoperable Motor Vehicles Or Unlicensed Vehicles
4-1-3-8: Dangerous, Unsafe Buildings And Premises
4-1-4: General Nuisances
4-1-5: Enforcement Officials
4-1-6: Right Of Entry For Inspections
4-1-7: Abatement Procedures
4-1-8: Violation; Penalties
4-1-1: FINDINGS ADOPTED:
The findings made in the prefatory portions of the ordinance codified herein
are hereby adopted and incorporated by reference. (Ord. 607-08, 11-3-2008)
4-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   ASHES: The residue from burning wood, coal, coke or other combustible
materials.
   AUTOMOBILE GRAVEYARD: Any establishment or place of business which is
maintained, operated, or used for storing, buying or selling wrecked, junked,
scrapped, ruined or dismantled motor vehicles or motor vehicle parts.
   DISEASED ANIMAL: An animal showing symptoms of a disease or having an
illness or being in an unhealthy state. This shall include a vicious animal as
defined under the Animal Control Act, 510 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et
seq.
   EXTERMINATION: The control and elimination of insects, rodents, or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food, by poisoning, spraying, trapping, or by
any other recognized and legal method of pest elimination.
   GARBAGE: Debris, junk, old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries,
paper, trash, rubber debris, waste, or junked, dismantled or wrecked
automobiles, or parts thereof, iron, steel, and other old or scrap ferrous or
nonferrous material, inoperable appliances, unusable furniture, dimensional
lumber from dismantled buildings, and putrescible animal and vegetable wastes
resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   HOUSEHOLD PETS: Dogs, cats, hamsters, birds, or similar animals being kept
solely on private premises for noncommercial purposes.
   INFESTATION: The presence, within a dwelling or other building, on the
premises or storage site of insects, rodents, or other pests.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE: Any Motor Vehicle which, for a period of at least
seven (7) days, the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed, or on
which the engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise
so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor
power. The term “Inoperable Motor Vehicle” shall also mean any motor vehicle
which lacks current, legal registration. The term “Inoperable Motor Vehicle”
shall not include a motor vehicle which has been rendered temporarily incapable
of being driven under its own motor power in order to perform ordinary service
or repair operations.
   JUNK: Old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash,
rubber debris, waste, or junked, dismantled or wrecked automobiles, or parts
thereof, iron, steel, and other old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous material,
inoperable appliances, unusable furniture, and dimensional lumber from
dismantled buildings.
   JUNK VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle which is wrecked, scrapped, ruined,
partially dismantled, wholly dismantled, inoperative, abandoned or discarded,
and/or fails to display current valid licensing.
   JUNKYARD: A properly licensed establishment or place of business, licensed
pursuant to this chapter governing junkyards, which is maintained, operated, or
used for storing, keeping, buying or selling junk, or for the maintenance or
operation of an automobile graveyard or mobile home salvage yard.
   MANURE: The excrement of all domestic animals and fowl and stable bedding.
   MOBILE HOME SALVAGE YARD: An establishment or place of business, licensed
pursuant to this chapter, which is maintained, operated or used for storing,
keeping, buying or selling wrecked, scrapped, junked, ruined or dismantled
mobile homes or mobile home parts, and does not include the repair of mobile
homes by mobile home dealers who refurbish and sell used but not wrecked,
scrapped, junked, ruined, or dismantled homes.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Any vehicle which is self-propelled and designed to travel
along the ground and shall include, but not be limited to, automobiles, buses,
motor bikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, trucks, go carts, golf carts,
recreational off-highway vehicle as that term is defined in Section 1-168.8 of
the Illinois Vehicle Code, All-terrain vehicle, as defined in 625 ILCS 5/1-
101.8 including any four-wheeler or three wheeler, recreational vehicles (RV),
campers, lawnmowers, trailers, construction equipment and heavy machinery.
   PERSON: Any natural person, firm, club, corporation, association,
partnership, company, organization, or political subdivision.
   PREMISES: Public and/or private property, either improved or vacant,
inhabited or uninhabited, including buildings and other structures, vehicles,
watercraft and/or parts thereof.
   REFUSE: All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body
wastes), including garbage, junk, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead
animals, abandoned automobiles, discarded household appliances and solid market
and industrial wastes.
   RODENTS: Rats and mice.
   RUBBISH: Nonputrescible solid wastes (excluding ashes), consisting of both
combustible and noncombustible wastes such as paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard
clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, and similar materials.
   SCRAP PROCESSING FACILITIES: Any establishment having facilities for
processing iron, steel, nonferrous scrap, mineral wastes or slag, and whose
principal product is scrap iron, steel or nonferrous scrap for sale for
remelting purposes only.
   STORAGE SITE: Public and/or private property, either improved or vacant,
including the buildings or structures thereon, vehicles, watercraft, or parts
thereof, upon or in which refuse is stored for collection prior to final
disposal.
   UNLICENSED VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle, or other vehicle or watercraft
requiring a license or registration, that does not have a current registration,
or does not have a current renewal sticker or license, or does not have a
license plate affixed to the vehicle in the manner required by law.
   VERMIN: Roaches, bed bugs, fleas, lice or similar noxious or disgusting
animal of small size. (Ord. 607-08, 11-3-2008; amd. 2017 Code; Ord. 1153-2024,
1-22-2024)
4-1-3: SPECIFIC NUISANCES:
4-1-3-1: GARBAGE, REFUSE AND RUBBISH:
A.   Accumulation Prohibited: No person shall store, deposit, or permit to
remain upon the ground, in open buildings or structures, or in any waterway,
pool, and confined waters within the Village any refuse, garbage, rubbish, or
other offensive matter that may attract or harbor flies, rodents, vermin and/or
mosquitoes or may create offensive odors or unsightliness, or create a health
hazard or nuisance.
B.   Storage Requirements:
   1.   All refuse, rubbish, and garbage shall be drained and stored in
durable, rust-resisting, nonabsorbent, water-tight, and easily washable
containers, which shall have close-fitting covers and adequate handles or bails
to facilitate collection. (Ord. 607-08, 11-3-2008)
   2.   Ashes shall be stored in fire-resistant containers with close-fitting
covers. Such containers shall be equipped with adequate handles to facilitate
collection, and shall not be greater than forty five (45) gallons in capacity.
Ashes containing hot embers shall not be placed in containers for collection.
The capacity for individual containers shall not apply when approved central
storage containers are provided and collection vehicles are equipped with
mechanical devices for hoisting and emptying the contents of such containers.
C.   Frequency Of Collection: All refuse, rubbish and garbage stored on a
storage site shall be collected once each week except in those situations where
more frequent collection shall be deemed necessary by the authorized
representative of the County Health Department or an authorized representative
of the Village. Dead animals are to be disposed of no later than twenty four
(24) hours or the period of time in which the process of decay becomes
offensive, whichever comes first. (Ord. 607-08, 11-3-2008; amd. 2017 Code)
D.   Disposal: All refuse, rubbish, and garbage shall be disposed of at a
location and in a method that conforms to the requirements of the Illinois
Environmental Protection Act.
E.   Vehicle Requirements:
   1.   All refuse, rubbish, debris, and garbage shall be transported to a
disposal site in a suitable motor vehicle.
   2.   All motor vehicles used for transportation of refuse, rubbish, debris
and garbage from the storage site to the site of final disposal shall: a) have
leak-proof beds; b) have sides and tailgates of sufficient height to prevent
the spillage of refuse; and c) during transportation, be covered with canvas,
tarpaulin or metal properly fitted to prevent the scatter or loss of refuse,
rubbish, debris or garbage.
   3.   Any motor vehicle used for the transportation of dead animals shall,
immediately upon the transportation of such dead animals and prior to such
motor vehicle being parked upon any street, alley, or parking lot within the
Village, be disinfected with a solution of at least one (1) part of cresol dip
to four (4) parts of water, or such equally effective disinfectant as required
by the Illinois Dead Animal Disposal Act 1 , as now in effect or hereafter
amended. (Ord. 607-08, 11-3-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 610/16.
4-1-3-2: DANGEROUS, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS:
Any and all dangerous and hazardous materials or substances such as poisons,
acids, caustics, pesticides, infested materials, explosives and solid wastes
resulting from industrial processes or otherwise shall not be mixed and/or
stored with and collected with refuse, garbage or rubbish, as defined in
section
 4-1-2 of this chapter. Such dangerous and hazardous materials or substances
shall be stored, collected and disposed of in a manner prescribed by applicable
State and Federal law, including, but not limited to, the Illinois
Environmental Protection Act and the United States Environmental Protection
Act. (Ord. 607-08, 11-3-2008)
4-1-3-3: VERMIN AND RODENTS:
The infestation of vermin or rodents on any premises or storage site within the
Village is declared a nuisance. No person shall permit an infestation of vermin
or rodents on any premises or storage site within the Village. The Corporate
Authorities may direct the Village Attorney, contractors, agents and/or
employees to proceed pursuant to this chapter or pursuant to 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-8 to exterminate vermin or rodents in the Village and
to attach a lien on the subject premises for the cost thereof. (Ord. 607-08,
11-3-2008)
4-1-3-4: OUTDOOR FURNITURE:
A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   INDOOR UPHOLSTERED FURNITURE: Any furniture constructed with stuffing or
cushions or springs, not intended for outdoor use.
   OUTDOORS: Any place visible from a public place and exposed to precipitation
including, but not limited to, yards, rooftops, and completely enclosed
porches, decks, patios, and balconies.
B.   Restrictions: No person shall place, use, keep, store or maintain outdoors
of any premises any indoor upholstered furniture not manufactured for outdoor
use including, but not limited to, upholstered chairs and couches, except when
said indoor upholstered furniture is placed at the curb on the customary
collection day for it to be removed as part of the large item waste removal
service, or when said indoor upholstered furniture is placed outdoors as part
of a garage sale. (Ord. 607-08, 11-3-2008)
4-1-3-5: ACCUMULATION OF JUNK; JUNKYARDS, AUTOMOBILE GRAVEYARDS, MOBILE HOME
SALVAGE YARDS AND SCRAP PROCESSING FACILITIES:
A.   Prohibited Practices: No person shall accumulate or store in, on, around,
or about any premises or storage site within the Village, any junk, debris,
garbage, rubbish, or refuse except in a licensed junkyard, licensed mobile home
salvage yard, licensed automobile graveyard, or licensed scrap processing
facility as allowed hereunder. (Ord. 607-08, 11-3-2008; amd. 2017 Code)
B.   License Required: No person may hereafter establish or operate a junkyard,
mobile home salvage yard, automobile graveyard or scrap processing facility
unless the person first obtains a license to operate a junkyard, mobile home
salvage yard, automobile graveyard or scrap processing facility from the
Corporate Authorities of the Village.
C.   Application For License: After the effective date hereof, a person
desiring to establish or operate a junkyard, mobile home salvage yard,
automobile graveyard or scrap processing facility within the corporate
boundaries of the Village shall submit a completed application to the Village
Clerk requesting a license to establish or operate a junkyard, mobile home
salvage yard, automobile graveyard or scrap processing facility within the
corporate boundaries of the Village. Said application shall include:
   1.   A non-refundable initial application fee of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), payable to the Village.
   2.   A plat of the site prepared by a licensed professional engineer showing
the location where the person intends to establish and operate the proposed
junkyard, mobile home salvage yard, automobile graveyard or scrap processing
facility, and showing the distance between the proposed junkyard, mobile home
salvage yard, automobile graveyard or scrap processing facility and those
residential structures, churches, restaurants, places of public accommodation,
and schools within one thousand feet (1,000') of the proposed junkyard, mobile
home salvage yard, automobile graveyard or scrap processing facility and
showing any right-of-way of any public street or alley within two hundred feet
(200') of the proposed junkyard, mobile home salvage yard, automobile graveyard
or scrap processing facility.
   3.   A water drainage and water detention study prepared by a licensed
professional engineer showing the site where the person intends to establish
and operate the proposed junkyard, mobile home salvage yard, automobile
graveyard or scrap processing facility. (Ord. 607-08, 11-3-2008)
   4.   A profile drawing, specifications and type of screen that will be
constructed to block the visibility of the area where junk, mobile homes, motor
vehicles or scrap will be stored. (Ord. 607-08, 11-3-2008; amd. 2017 Code)
D.   Grant Or Denial Of License:
   1.   The Corporate Authorities of the Village shall grant or deny the
person's application within sixty (60) days of the receipt of the application
by the Village Clerk.
   2.   The Corporate Authorities of the Village shall notify the person of the
grant or denial of the application in writing served on the person by certified
mail within ninety (90) days of filing the application with the Village Clerk.
Said notice shall inform the person of the reason(s) for the grant or denial of
the application.
   3.   The person may appeal the decision of the Corporate Authorities to the
Village President by filing with the Village Clerk within thirty (30) days of
the date of the notice of denial of the application a written request for a
hearing to appeal the decision of the Corporate Authorities.
   4.   The Village Clerk shall schedule a hearing with the person within
thirty (30) days of receipt of the person's request for a hearing. At the
hearing, the Village President shall hear the reasons for the person's appeal
and shall grant or deny the person's appeal in writing within thirty (30) days
from the date of the appeal hearing.
E.   Nontransferability Of License: Any license granted hereunder shall not be
assignable or transferable. In the event a license granted hereunder is
assigned or transferred for any reason whatsoever, the license granted
hereunder shall terminate immediately.
F.   Expiration Of License; Renewal And Fee: All licenses to establish and
operate a junkyard, mobile home salvage yard, automobile graveyard or scrap
processing facility shall expire one (1) year from the date of issuance and
must be renewed annually by paying the Village an annual license fee of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00). The Village may refuse to renew any license
granted hereunder for failure to comply with applicable State, Federal, or
local laws and regulations including, but not limited to, this chapter.
G.   Location Restrictions:
   1.   No person shall hereafter establish or operate a junkyard, mobile home
salvage yard, automobile graveyard or scrap processing facility within one
thousand feet (1,000') of any residential dwelling (with the exception of the
establishment owner's residential dwelling), school, restaurant, church or
place of public accommodation.
   2.   No person may hereafter establish or operate a junkyard, mobile home
salvage yard, automobile graveyard or scrap processing facility within two
hundred feet (200') of the right-of-way of any public street or alley within
the Village.
H.   Screening Required: All junkyards, mobile home salvage yards, automobile
graveyards and scrap processing facilities licensed pursuant to this chapter
shall be screened with fencing sufficient to block from view the area wherein
the junk, mobile homes, motor vehicles or scrap is stored.
I.   Nonconforming Facilities:
   1.   Any person operating a junkyard, mobile home salvage yard, automobile
graveyard or scrap processing facility within the corporate boundaries of the
Village as of the effective date hereof shall be deemed a nonconforming use
upon the issuance of a Certificate of Nonconformance to such person by the
Village. The Certificate of Nonconformance shall direct the person to abate the
operation of the junkyard, mobile home salvage yard, automobile graveyard or
scrap processing facility. However, the nonconforming use will be permitted to
continue for a period of six (6) months, unless sooner terminated for any
reason for a period of thirty (30) days or more upon the written request of the
person, during which time the person must either bring the junkyard, mobile
home salvage yard, automobile graveyard or scrap processing facility into
compliance with this chapter or abate the operation of the junkyard, mobile
home salvage yard, automobile graveyard or scrap processing facility. Such
nonconforming uses shall not be increased, enlarged or extended, or altered;
except, that the use may be changed to a conforming use.
   2.   A person operating a junkyard, mobile home salvage yard, automobile
graveyard or scrap processing facility within the corporate boundaries of the
Village as of the effective date hereof may petition the Corporate Authorities
of the Village for an additional six (6) month extension of time of the period
in which the nonconforming use may be permitted to continue. The Corporate
Authorities of the Village shall grant such request for an extension.
J.   Compliance With Provisions: Any junkyard, mobile home salvage yard,
automobile graveyard or scrap processing facility shall comply with this
chapter and all applicable State and Federal laws, rules and regulations. (Ord.
607-08, 11-3-2008)
4-1-3-6: WEEDS, GRASS AND PLANTS:
A.   Weeds Declared A Nuisance: Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed,
thistle, cocklebur, or other weeds of a like kind, found growing on any
property in the Village are hereby declared a nuisance, and it shall be
unlawful to permit any such weeds to grow or remain in any place.
B.   Height Restrictions: It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit weeds,
grass or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants
to grow to a height exceeding eight (8) inches anywhere in the Village,
including, but not limited, to the area on or along the sidewalk, street, or
alley adjacent to or between the property line and the curb; any such plants
exceeding such height are hereby declared to be a nuisance. It shall be the
duty of the owner, occupant, or any person having control or management of a
property to cut and destroy, or cause to be cut and destroyed, all such weeds,
grass, or plants growing or standing on said property, including any such
weeds, grass, or plants growing or standing in the area on or along the
sidewalk, street, or alley adjacent to or between the property line and the
curb. The prohibitions contained in this subsection shall not apply to the
following:
   1.   Agricultural Purposes: Property used for agricultural purposes devoted
to growing corn, soybeans, or any small grain crop such as wheat, oats, barley,
or rye;
   2.   Land in a public utility transmission easement that is more than 50
feet from the boundary line of property developed for residential use or from
public sidewalk, street, or alley;
   3.   On a portion of property which has a slope greater than one to one and
a height which exceeds three feet from the bottom of the slope to the top of
the slope;
   4.   On a portion of a lot which is inaccessible to grounds maintenance
equipment customarily used by residential households due to unusual
topographical conditions; and,
   5.   Regulated wetlands, other environmentally sensitive areas and managed
stormwater facilities.
C.   Hedges, etc., exceeding certain height. It shall be a nuisance and
unlawful to allow any hedge, weeds, bushes, plants or other growing vegetation
to exceed a height of thirty (30) inches above the street grade within twenty
(20) feet of any street intersection.
D.   The Village may proceed pursuant to this Chapter, or may proceed pursuant
to 65 ILCS 5/11-20-7, to direct its attorneys, agents, employees, or
contractors to cut such weeds and attach a lien to the subject premises for the
cost thereof. (Ord. 1036-2020, 7-6-2020)
4-1-3-7: INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES OR UNLICENSED VEHICLES:
An Inoperable Motor Vehicle or Unlicensed Vehicle, whether on public or private
property, are hereby declared a nuisance and the same shall not be allowed to
remain in excess of ten (10) days following the issuance of a notice to abate
as stated in Section 4-7-7 of this Chapter. The Village may proceed pursuant to
this Chapter or pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-40-3 to enforce this Section. (Ord.
1153, 1-22-2024)
4-1-3-8: DANGEROUS, UNSAFE BUILDINGS AND PREMISES:
A.   Nuisance Declared: Dangerous and unsafe buildings and/or premises located
within the Village are hereby declared a nuisance.
B.   Prohibitions: It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of
any dangerous or unsafe building or the accumulation or storage of garbage,
debris and other hazardous, noxious or unhealthy substances or materials in the
Village, and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, lessee, agent or
person in custody of any dangerous building and/or premises to permit the same
to remain in a dangerous or unsafe condition or to occupy such building or
premises or permit it to be occupied while it is or remains in a dangerous or
unsafe condition.
C.   Right Of Entry For Inspections: The Corporate Authorities, Police Officers
employed by or acting on behalf of the Village, and/or other persons or
agencies charged with the enforcement of this chapter shall have the right to
enter any property at any reasonable time to inspect any facility, premises, or
condition thereon for the purpose of determining whether there is compliance
with this chapter. Refusal by any owner of right of entry shall cause the
Village to seek the permission of a court of competent jurisdiction for right
of entry.
D.   Abatement Procedures: Upon discovery of any violation of this section, the
Village may direct its attorneys, agents, and employees to proceed pursuant to
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-31-1 et seq., to abate the nuisance as
provided for therein. (Ord. 607-08, 11-3-2008)
4-1-4: GENERAL NUISANCES:
A.   Common Law Nuisances: In all cases in this chapter where no provision is
made in defining unusual conditions which may constitute a nuisance and how the
same may be abated, removed or prevented, those offenses and those known to the
common law and to the Statutes of Illinois as nuisances, in addition to those
declared herein, may, in case the same exist within the jurisdiction of the
Village, be treated as such and proceeded against as provided in sections
4-1-5 through
4-1-8 of this chapter or any other provision of law applicable thereto.
B.   Public Nuisances: The following are declared to be public nuisances:
   1.   To cause or suffer the carcass of any animal or any offal, filth or
noisome substance to be collected or deposited or to remain in any place to the
prejudice of others; carcasses of dead animals or any part of decaying animal
matter not buried or destroyed or collected within twenty four (24) hours after
death.
   2.   To throw or deposit any offal or other offensive matter or the carcass
of any dead animal in any watercourse, lake, pond, spring, well or common
sewer, street, alley, or public highway.
   3.   To corrupt or render unwholesome or impure the water of any spring,
river, stream, pond or lake to the injury or prejudice of others.
   4.   All diseased animals running at large; all dogs or other household pets
not confined to the owner's premises except when under direct human control.
   5.   Accumulations of manure, refuse, junk vehicles, junk mobile homes, or
human and industrial or noxious or offensive waste, except the normal storage
on a farm of manure for agricultural purposes. (Ord. 607-08, 11-3-2008)
   6.   The housing of animals or fowl other than household pets. (Ord. 607-08,
11-3-2008; amd. 2017 Code)
   7.   Any factory, cannery, yard, building or structure of any kind,
distillery, livery stable, cattle shed or yard, packing house, slaughterhouse,
rendering establishment, barn or pool of water which shall become foul or
offensive or is deemed a health hazard by the County Health Department.
   8.   Any open well, cistern, hole or pit including an excavation related to
construction which is permitted to remain open without suitable protection. Any
such open well, cistern, hole or pit must be filled or securely and tightly
covered or barricaded, and it shall be the duty of the owner, occupant or agent
of any property on which such open well, cistern, hole or pit is located to
fill or keep the same securely and tightly covered or adequately barricaded. If
the site is one normally used by pedestrians, warning lights must be provided
when natural light is inadequate. (Ord. 607-08, 11-3-2008)
   9.   All abandoned refrigerators on any premises shall have the doors
removed in accordance with the Illinois Abandoned Refrigerator Act, 430
Illinois Compiled Statutes 150/1 et seq., as now in effect or as hereafter
amended, and the refrigerant must be removed by an authorized service
representative to avoid violation of the Illinois and Federal Clean Air Act.
(Ord. 607-08, 11-3-2008; amd. 2017 Code)
   10.   Any accumulation of stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot,
piece of ground, or premises within the Village.
   11.   Any condition which provides harborage for rodents, vermin, or snakes.
   12.   To maintain an unsightly yard or any accumulation of rubbish, garbage,
refuse, trash, junk and other abandoned materials, metals, lumber or other
things.
   13.   To obstruct or encroach upon any public highway, street, alley, or
public easement. (Ord. 607-08, 11-3-2008)
4-1-5: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
This chapter shall be enforced by the Village Attorney serving the Village,
officers of the County Sheriff's Department, such Police Officers employed by
or acting on behalf of the Village, the County Health Department, and/or the
Corporate Authorities of the Village or such other person or agencies so
designated by the Corporate Authorities of the Village. (Ord. 607-08, 11-3-
2008)
4-1-6: RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTIONS:
Any person or agency charged with the enforcement of this chapter shall have
the right to enter any property at any reasonable time to inspect any facility,
premises or condition thereon for the purpose of determining whether there is
compliance with sections
4-1-3 and/or
4-1-4 of this chapter. Refusal by any owner of right of entry shall cause the
person, officer, or agency to seek the permission of a court of competent
jurisdiction for right of entry. (Ord. 607-08, 11-3-2008)
4-1-7: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
Upon discovery of any violation of this chapter by the Corporate Authorities of
the Village or personnel/agency charged with the enforcement of this chapter,
the person, corporation, association, company, owner, occupant, or agent
causing, allowing or permitting such violation shall be issued a notice to
abate stating the date, place, and condition complained of, and shall direct
the person, corporation, association, company, owner, occupant or agent
causing, allowing or permitting such violation to rectify the violation within
ten (10) days. In the event the person, corporation, association, company,
owner, occupant or agent fails to rectify the violation within said ten (10)
day period, then the Corporate Authorities of the Village or enforcement
personnel/agency shall issue a citation to or file a complaint against the
violator ordering the violator to appear in the County Circuit Court, and
charging the violator with a violation(s) of this chapter. Said citation or
complaint shall describe the violation and the part of this chapter violated.
(Ord. 607-08, 11-3-2008)
4-1-8: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter commits a civil ordinance
violation and shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00), nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), for
each offense. Each day a violation of this chapter is allowed to continue shall
constitute a separate offense. In addition to any fine, the Village may seek
injunctive and declaratory relief directing the violator(s) to cure the
violation, and the Village may revoke any license authorized and issued
pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 607-08, 11-3-2008; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 2
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-2-1: Findings Adopted
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-3: General Prohibitions And Restrictions
4-2-4: Burning Landscape Waste
4-2-5: Exemptions From Provisions
4-2-6: Interpretation
4-2-7: Violation; Penalties
4-2-1: FINDINGS ADOPTED:
The findings made in the prefatory portion of the ordinance codified herein are
hereby adopted. (Ord. 513-04, 1-5-2004)
4-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
following definitions:
   BURN OFF: The ignition and burning of landscape waste or vegetation without
collecting, piling and attending such conflagration as stated in section
4-2-4 of this chapter.
   GARBAGE: That material(s) resulting from the handling, processing,
preparation, cooking and/or consumption of food or food products.
   LANDSCAPE WASTE: Any vegetable, vegetative, or plant refuse, except garbage.
The term includes, but is not limited to, trees, tree trimmings, branches,
stumps, brush, weeds, leaves, grass, shrubbery and yard trimmings that have
been cut or otherwise severed.
   REFUSE: Any discarded matter and/or combustible and non- combustible trash
including, but not limited to, barrels, excelsior, furniture, junk, bedding,
plastics, metals, scraps, shavings, tires, petroleum-based products or other
similar items. (Ord. 513-04, 1-5-2004)
4-2-3: GENERAL PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful to:
A.   Burn garbage in the Village.
B.   Burn off vegetation in the Village, except as stated in section
 4-2-4 of this chapter.
C.   Burn landscape waste in the Village, except as stated in section
4-2-4 of this chapter.
D.   Burn refuse in the Village.
E.   Light, maintain or cause the ignition of any fire anywhere in the Village;
provided, however, that the term "fire", as used in this chapter, shall not be
construed to mean or include a fire in a furnace, stove, boiler or fireplace
for heating or culinary purposes, or the burning of fuels used in legitimate
commercial or industrial processes, such as welding, and nothing in this
chapter shall prohibit the burning of fuels for legitimate campfire,
recreational and cooking purposes or in domestic fireplaces in areas where such
burning is consistent with other laws; provided, that garbage, landscape waste,
or other refuse shall not be burned in such cases. (Ord. 513-04, 1-5-2004)
4-2-4: BURNING LANDSCAPE WASTE:
Landscape waste which is generated on-site (that being that landscape waste not
generated from 1 site and transported to another site for burning) may be
burned in the open between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and eight
o'clock (8:00) P.M.; provided, that: (Ord. 513-04, 1-5-2004; amd. 2017 Code)
A.   The landscape waste is piled not less than fifty feet (50') away from any
structure.
B.   The burning of the landscape waste is supervised by at least one (1)
person over the age of eighteen (18).
C.   The burning of the landscape waste shall not occur on a day when the wind
is blowing in excess of ten (10) miles per hour as determined in the Village by
the National Weather Service.
D.   The burning of the landscape waste shall not create a visibility hazard on
roadways or railroad tracks.
E.   The burning of the landscape waste shall not be done on a street, sidewalk
or public way.
F.   The burning of the landscape waste shall not be done on those days on
which the Village President has determined that such burning will be hazardous
due to local conditions.
G.   The landscape waste shall not be allowed to smolder, but shall be burned
or cause to be burned in a rapid manner. (Ord. 513-04, 1-5-2004)
4-2-5: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to:
A.   Burning which is conducted in conjunction with training supervised by a
Municipal fire department or fire protection district.
B.   Burning by Village employees of tree limbs, branches and similar landscape
waste which has been picked up by Village employees immediately following a
storm or other natural occurrence resulting in the need for such emergency
cleanup operations by the Village as determined by the Village President. (Ord.
513-04, 1-5-2004)
4-2-6: INTERPRETATION:
This chapter shall not be construed to allow or permit any burning of materials
prohibited by any other ordinance of the Village or any statute or regulation
of the State of Illinois. (Ord. 513-04, 1-5-2004)
4-2-7: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2-1, any person, firm,
association, company or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of a civil ordinance
violation and shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Any such
person, firm or corporation may be further ordered to pay restitution to the
Village for any costs incurred by the Village as a result of the violation of
this chapter, excluding attorney fees incurred in the prosecution of such
violation. A separate offense shall be deemed to be committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 513-04, 1-5-2004)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: National Incident Management System Adopted
5-1-1: NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ADOPTED:
It shall be the public policy of the Village to adopt the National Incident
Management System concept of emergency planning and unified command. (Res.
336A-04, 11-2-2004; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definitions
5-2-2: Animals At Large
5-2-3: Cruelty To Animals
5-2-4: Noisy Animals 1  (Rep. by Ord. 911-2018, 8-6-2018)
5-2-5: Diseased Animals
5-2-6: Keeping Animals Other Than Domesticated Pets
5-2-7: Number Of Dogs And Cats
5-2-8: Potentially Dangerous Dogs
5-2-9: Dangerous Dogs
5-2-10: Vicious Dogs
5-2-11: Breaking Open Pound Prohibited
5-2-12: Enforcement Of Provisions
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 7 of this title.
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   ADMINISTRATOR: The Village President for the Village of Dieterich, Illinois.
   ANIMAL: Every living creature, other than man, which may be affected by
rabies.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: An employee of the Effingham County Animal Control
Department.
   ANIMAL CONTROL WARDEN: Any person appointed by the County of Effingham to
perform the duties set forth in this chapter.
   AT LARGE: Off of the premises of the owner and not under the control of a
leash.
   CAT: Felis catus.
   CONFINED: The restriction of an animal at all times by the owner, or his
agent, to an escape-proof building, house, or other enclosure away from other
animals and the public.
   DANGEROUS DOG:
   A.   Any individual dog anywhere other than upon the property of the owner
or custodian of the dog and unmuzzled, unleashed, or unattended by its owner or
custodian that behaves in a manner that a reasonable person would believe poses
a serious and unjustified imminent threat of serious physical injury or death
to a person or a companion animal; or
   B.   A dog that, without justification, bites a person and does not cause
serious physical injury.
   DOG: All members of the family Canidae.
   ENCLOSURE: A fence or structure at least six feet (6') in height, forming or
causing an enclosure suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and
suitable to confine a vicious dog in conjunction with other measures that may
be taken by the owner or keeper, such as tethering of the vicious dog within
the enclosure. The enclosure shall be securely enclosed and locked and designed
to secure the sides, top, and bottom and shall be designed to prevent the
animal from escaping from the enclosure. If the enclosure is a room within a
residence, it cannot have direct ingress from or egress to the outdoors unless
it leads directly to an enclosed pen and the door must be locked. A vicious dog
may be allowed to move about freely within the entire residence if it is
muzzled at all times.
   HAS BEEN BITTEN: Has been seized with the teeth or jaws so that the person
or animal seized has been nipped, gripped, wounded, or pierced, and further
includes contact of saliva with any break or abrasion of the skin.
   IMPOUNDED: Taken into the custody of the Animal Control Facility in the
County of Effingham, Illinois.
   LEASH: A cord, rope, strap, or chain which shall be securely fastened to the
collar or harness of a dog or other animal and shall be of sufficient strength
to keep such dog or other animal under control.
   LICENSED VETERINARIAN: A veterinarian licensed by the State of Illinois.
   OWNER: Any person having a right of property in an animal, or who keeps or
harbors an animal, or who has it in his care, or acts as its custodian, or who
knowingly permits a dog to remain on any premises occupied by him or her.
"Owner" does not include a feral cat caretaker participating in a Trap, Spay/
Neuter, Return or Release Program.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, society, association
or other legal entity, any public or private institution, the State of
Illinois, a municipal corporation or a political subdivision of the State, or
any other business unit.
   PHYSICAL INJURY: The impairment of physical condition.
   POLICE ANIMAL: Any animal owned or used by a law enforcement department or
agency in the course of the department's or agency's work.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG: A dog that is unsupervised and found running at
large with three (3) or more other dogs.
   POUND OR ANIMAL CONTROL FACILITY: May be used interchangeably and shall mean
any facility approved for the purpose of enforcing this chapter and used as a
shelter for seized, stray, homeless, abandoned, or unwanted dogs or other
animals.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL INJURY: A physical injury that creates a substantial risk
of death or that causes death, serious disfigurement, protracted impairment of
health, impairment of the function of any bodily organ, or plastic surgery.
   VICIOUS DOG: A dog that, without justification, attacks a person and causes
serious physical injury or death, or any individual dog that has been found to
be a dangerous dog upon three (3) separate occasions. (Ord. 606-08, 11-3-2008;
amd. 2017 Code)
5-2-2: ANIMALS AT LARGE:
A.   Nuisance Declared: Every owner of an animal shall contain such animal to
the confines of the owner's real property unless the animal is under restraint
by a leash and shall not permit such animal to run at large in the streets,
avenues, alleys or public places of the Village or upon the private property of
any person other than the owner thereof, and the running at large of any such
animal in any such places is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
B.   Impoundment: Any such animal found running at large shall be apprehended
and impounded by the Village or other appropriate public agency.
C.   Exemptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to a police
animal while being used to conduct official business or being used for official
purposes. (Ord. 606-08, 11-3-2008)
5-2-3: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
No person shall commit cruelty to animals. A person commits cruelty to animals
when the person knowingly:
A.   Confines the animal in such a manner so that it is forced to stand, lie or
sit in its own excrement;
B.   Fails to provide an exercise quarters of at least twenty four (24) square
feet;
C.   Fails to provide living quarters of sufficient size to exercise and move
about;
D.   Fails to provide living quarters that are protected from excessive heat or
cold;
E.   Fails to keep an animal in a clean, sanitary and healthy manner;
F.   Deprives the animal of proper veterinary care or necessary sustenance;
G.   Tethers an animal with a choke collar;
H.   Tethers an animal on a leash of less than eight feet (8') in length;
I.   Tethers an animal on a leash of a weight or in such a manner that prevents
the animal from moving freely without entanglement;
J.   Abandoning, overdriving, overworking, cruelly beating, torturing,
tormenting, or cruelly killing any animal, or causing or knowingly allowing the
same to be done;
K.   Unjustifiably kills, wounds or attempts to kill any domestic animal in a
cruel manner;
L.   Allows an animal to remain unattended in a motor vehicle when the outside
ambient air temperature exceeds eighty degrees Fahrenheit (80°F) or confines an
animal in an area without adequate air circulation;
M.   Working any maimed, lame, sick, or disabled animal, or causing or
knowingly allowing the same to be done; or
N.   Causes, instigates, permits or attends any dogfight or other combat
between animals or between animals and humans. (Ord. 606-08, 11-3-2008)
5-2-4: NOISY ANIMALS 1 :
(Rep. by Ord. 911-2018, 8-6-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 7 of this title.
5-2-5: DISEASED ANIMALS:
A.   No animal afflicted with a contagious or infectious disease shall be
allowed to be exposed in any public place whereby the health of human beings or
other animals may be affected; nor shall such diseased animal be shipped or
removed from the property of the owner thereof, except under the supervision of
the Administrator or agent of any other appropriate public agency.
B.   It is hereby made the duty of the County Health Department to secure such
disposition of any diseased animal and such treatment of affected premises as
to prevent the communication and spread of contagion or infection, except in
cases where any other appropriate public agency is empowered to act. (Ord. 606-
08, 11-3-2008)
5-2-6: KEEPING ANIMALS OTHER THAN DOMESTICATED PETS:
A.   Prohibited Animals: Except as otherwise expressly provided in this
chapter, no person shall keep, harbor or allow to be kept within the Village
limits any live chicken, turkey, goose, duck or any other poultry or byproduct
bird; any goat, sheep, swine, cattle, horse, or any type of hoof stock; any
type of farm animal including any pygmy or miniature variety thereof; any lion,
tiger, leopard, ocelot, jaguar, cheetah, margay, mountain lion, lynx, bobcat,
jaguarundi, bear, hyena, wolf, wolf-hybrid, poisonous reptile, or non-
domesticated animal found in its natural state to be wild and potentially
dangerous to human life. It is no defense to a violation of this subsection
that the owner or keeper of the animal has attempted to domesticate the animal.
B.   Exceptions:
   1.   Animals maintained by a humane society, veterinary hospital, or
educational institution shall not be regulated by the provisions of this
section.
   2.   Reserved.
C.   Permit Required For Parades: Exhibitions or parades of animals which are
ferae naturae in the eyes of the law may be conducted only upon obtaining a
permit from the Administrator.
D.   Nonconforming Uses:
   1.   A person keeping, harboring, or possessing any donkey(s), horse(s),
mule(s), llama(s), or cattle lawfully existing on real estate within the
corporate boundaries of the Village on the effective date hereof shall be
entitled to an exemption from the provisions of subsection A of this section as
provided herein. Any person claiming an exemption under this subsection shall
obtain a Certificate of Nonconforming Use from the Village Clerk or his/her
designee. Said exemption shall be deemed a covenant running with the land and
shall inure to the benefit of the real estate described in the Certificate of
Nonconforming Use.
   2.   When any person no longer keeps, harbors, or possesses any donkey,
horse, mule, llama, and/or cattle exempted from the regulations of this section
under subsection D1 of this section for a period of twelve (12) consecutive
months, he shall not thereafter resume to keep, harbor, or possess any animal
prohibited under the provisions of subsection A of this section and shall
comply with the regulations of said subsection A of this section.
E.   Violation; Penalties: Any person violating any provision of this section
shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which the violation occurs or continues. In addition to any fine, the
Village may seek injunctive and declaratory relief directing the violator(s) to
cure or abate the violation. (Ord. 606-08, 11-3-2008; amd. 2017 Code; Ord.
1107-2022, 5-2-2022)
5-2-7: NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS:
A.   Total Number Of Dogs And Cats: It shall be unlawful to own, possess, keep,
maintain or harbor more than four (4) dogs four (4) months of age or older or
four (4) cats four (4) months of age or older in any residential building or on
any residential lot within the Village; provided, however, that for the
purposes of this subsection, an apartment shall be considered as one (1)
residential building. The objective of this subsection is that there be a
limitation of four (4) total animals no matter how many of each.
B.   Violation; Penalties: Any person violating any provision of this section
shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which the violation occurs or continues. In addition to any fine, the
Village may seek injunctive and declaratory relief directing the violator(s) to
cure or abate the violation. (Ord. 606-08, 11-3-2008; amd. 2017 Code)
5-2-8: POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS:
A.   Determination Of Potentially Dangerous Dog: A dog found running at large
and unsupervised with three (3) or more other dogs may be deemed a potentially
dangerous dog by the Animal Control Warden or Administrator.
B.   Spaying Or Neutering And Microchipping Required: Potentially dangerous
dogs shall be spayed or neutered and microchipped within fourteen (14) days of
reclaim.
C.   Expiration Of Designation: The designation of "potentially dangerous dog"
shall expire twelve (12) months after the most recent violation of this
section.
D.   Penalties: Failure to comply with this section will result in impoundment
of the dog or a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00). (2017 Code)
5-2-9: DANGEROUS DOGS:
A.   Determination Of Dangerous Dog:
   1.   The Administrator or anyone designated by the Administrator may deem a
dog to be a dangerous dog, as defined in section
5-2-1 of this chapter, after meeting the following requirements:
      a.   Conducting a thorough investigation. (Ord. 606-08, 11-3-2008)
      b.   Sending a notification to the owner within ten (10) days of the
Administrator becoming aware of the alleged infraction. Said notification shall
advise the owner of the alleged infraction and the fact of the initiation of an
investigation, and advise the owner that he has an opportunity to meet with the
Administrator prior to the making of a determination. (Ord. 606-08, 11-3-2008;
amd. 2017 Code)
      c.   Gather any existing medical records, veterinary medical records or
behavioral evidence.
      d.   Interview any witnesses.
      e.   Make a detailed report finding that the dog is a dangerous dog.
   2.   A dog may not be declared dangerous if the Administrator determines the
conduct of the dog was justified because: (Ord. 606-08, 11-3-2008)
      a.   The threat was sustained by a person who, at the time, was
committing a crime or offense upon the owner or custodian of the dog or was
committing a wilful trespass or other tort upon the premises or property
occupied by the owner of the animal;
      b.   The threatened person was abusing, assaulting, or physically
threatening the dog or its offspring; (Ord. 606-08, 11-3-2008; amd. 2017 Code)
      c.   The injured, threatened, or killed companion animal was attacking or
threatening to attack the dog or its offspring; or
      d.   The dog was responding to pain or injury or was protecting itself,
its owner, custodian, or a member of its household, kennel, or offspring.
B.   Immediate Notice Required: The owner shall be sent immediate notification
of the determination by registered or certified mail that includes a complete
description of the appeal process.
C.   Conditions Upon Determination Of Dangerous Dog:
   1.   If deemed dangerous, the Administrator shall order the dog to be spayed
or neutered within fourteen (14) days at the owner's expense and microchipped,
if not already, and one (1) or more of the following as deemed appropriate
under the circumstances and necessary for the protection of the public:
      a.   Evaluation of the dog by a certified applied behaviorist, a board
certified veterinary behaviorist, or another recognized expert in the field and
completion of training or other treatment as deemed appropriate by the expert.
The owner of the dog shall be responsible for all costs associated with the
microchipping and all costs associated with the evaluations and training
ordered under this subsection; or
      b.   Direct supervision by an adult eighteen (18) years of age or older
whenever the dog is on public premises. (Ord. 606-08, 11-3-2008)
   2.   The Administrator may order a dangerous dog to be muzzled and leashed
whenever it is off the owner's real property in a manner that will prevent it
from biting any person or animal, but that shall not injure the dog or
interfere with its vision or respiration. It is unlawful for any person to
maintain a public nuisance by permitting any dangerous dog to leave the
premises of its owner when not under control by leash or other recognized
control methods.
D.   Complaints And Appeals:
   1.   The owner of a dog found by the Administrator to be a dangerous dog
pursuant to this section may file a complaint against the Administrator in the
Effingham County Circuit Court, within thirty five (35) days of receipt of
notification of the determination, for a de novo hearing on the determination.
The proceeding shall be conducted as a civil hearing pursuant to the Illinois
Rules of Evidence and the Code of Civil Procedure, including the discovery
provisions. After hearing both parties' evidence, the court may make a
determination that the dog is a dangerous dog if the Administrator meets his or
her burden of proof of clear and convincing evidence. The final order of the
Circuit Court may be appealed pursuant to the civil appeals provisions of the
Illinois Supreme Court Rules. (Ord. 606-08, 11-3-2008; amd. 2017 Code)
   2.   The owner of a dog found by the Administrator to be a dangerous dog
pursuant to this section may, within fourteen (14) days of receipt of
notification of the determination, request an administrative hearing to appeal
the determination. The administrative hearing shall be conducted pursuant to
the Department of Agriculture's rules applicable to formal administrative
proceedings, 8 Illinois Administrative Code part 1, subparts A and B. An owner
desiring a hearing shall make his or her request for a hearing to the Illinois
Department of Agriculture. The final administrative decision of the Department
of Agriculture may be reviewed judicially by the Circuit Court of the County
wherein the person resides, or in the case of a corporation, the County where
its registered office is located. If the plaintiff in a review proceeding is
not a resident of Illinois, the venue shall be in Effingham County. The
Administrative Review Law and amendments and modifications thereof, and the
rules adopted thereto, apply to and govern all proceedings for the judicial
review of the final administrative decisions of the department hereunder.
   3.   Until the order has been reviewed and at all times during the appeal
process, the owner shall comply with the requirements set forth by the
Administrator or the court. (Ord. 606-08, 11-3-2008)
   4.   At any time after a final order has been entered, the owner may
petition the Circuit Court to reverse the designation of dangerous dog. (2017
Code)
E.   Exemptions:
   1.   Guide dogs for the blind or hearing impaired, support dogs for the
physically handicapped, and sentry, guard, or police owned dogs are exempted
from this section, provided an attack or injury to a person occurs while the
dog is performing duties as expected.
   2.   To qualify for exemption under this section, each such dog shall be
currently inoculated against rabies.
   3.   It shall be the duty of the owner of such exempted dog to notify the
Administrator of changes of address.
   4.   In the case of a sentry or guard dog, the owner shall keep the
Administrator advised of the location where such dog will be stationed. (Ord.
606-08, 11-3-2008)
   5.   The Administrator shall provide the Dieterich Fire Protection District
with a categorized list of such exempted dogs, and shall promptly notify the
District of any address changes reported to him or her. (Ord. 606-08, 11-3-
2008; amd. 2017 Code)
F.   Impoundment For Failure To Comply: The Animal Control Department has the
right to impound a dangerous dog if the owner fails to comply with the
requirements of this chapter. (2017 Code)
5-2-10: VICIOUS DOGS:
A.   Determination Of Vicious Dog:
   1.   The Administrator or anyone designated by the Administrator may deem a
dog to be a vicious dog, as defined in section
5-2-1 of this chapter, after meeting the following requirements:
      a.   Give notice to the owner of the infraction that is the basis of the
investigation;
      b.   Conduct a thorough investigation;
      c.   Interview any witnesses, including the owner;
      d.   Gather any existing medical records, veterinary medical records or
behavioral evidence;
      e.   Make a detailed report recommending a finding that the dog is a
vicious dog; and
      f.   Give a copy of the report to the Effingham County State's Attorney
and the owner.
   2.   A dog may not be declared vicious if the Administrator determines the
conduct of the dog was justified because: (Ord. 606-08, 11-3-2008)
      a.   The threat, injury, or death was sustained by a person who, at the
time, was committing a crime or offense upon the owner or custodian of the dog,
or was committing a wilful trespass or other tort upon the premises or property
owned or occupied by the owner of the animal.
      b.   The injured, threatened, or killed person was abusing, assaulting or
physically threatening the dog or its offspring, or has in the past tormented,
abused, assaulted or threatened the dog or its offspring. (Ord. 606-08, 11-3-
2008; amd. 2017 Code)
      c.   The dog was responding to pain or injury, or was protecting itself,
its owner, custodian, or member of its household, kennel, or offspring.
   3.   Vicious dogs shall not be classified in a manner that is specific as to
breed.
B.   Complaint Filed: The Administrator, Effingham County State's Attorney,
Village Attorney, or any citizen of the Village may file a complaint in the
Circuit Court of Effingham County in the name of the people of the State of
Illinois to deem a dog to be a vicious dog. The Administrator shall determine
where the animal shall be confined during the pendency of the case.
C.   Conditions Upon Determination Of Vicious Dog:
   1.   If a dog is found to be a vicious dog, the dog shall be spayed or
neutered within ten (10) days of the finding at the expense of its owner and
microchipped, if not already, and is subject to enclosure.
   2.   A dog found to be a vicious dog shall not be released to the owner
until the Administrator or anyone designated by the Administrator approves the
enclosure. (Ord. 606-08, 11-3-2008)
   3.   a. If the Animal Control Department has custody of the dog, the
Department may file a petition with the court requesting that the owner be
ordered to post security. The security must be in an amount sufficient to
secure payment of all reasonable expenses expected to be incurred by the Animal
Control Department in caring for and providing for the dog pending the
determination. Reasonable expenses include, but are not limited to, estimated
medical care and boarding of the animal for thirty (30) days. If security has
been posted in accordance with this subsection, the Animal Control Department
may draw from the security the actual costs incurred by the Department in
caring for the dog.
      b.   Upon receipt of a petition, the court must set a hearing on the
petition, to be conducted within five (5) business days after the petition is
filed. The petitioner must serve a true copy of the petition upon the
defendant.
      c.   If the court orders the posting of security, the security must be
posted with the Clerk of the Court within five (5) business days after the
hearing. If the person ordered to post security does not do so, the dog is
forfeited by operation of law, and the Animal Control Department must dispose
of the animal through adoption or humane euthanization. (2017 Code)
   4.   No owner or keeper of a vicious dog shall sell or give away the dog
without approval from the Administrator or the court. (Ord. 606-08, 11-3-2008;
amd. 2017 Code)
   5.   Whenever the owner of a vicious dog relocates, he or she shall notify
both the Administrator of the County Animal Control where he or she has
relocated and the Administrator of the County Animal Control where he or she
formerly resided.
D.   Retaining Vicious Dog:
   1.   Enclosure Requirements: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
maintain any dog which has been found to be a vicious dog unless the dog is
kept in an enclosure. The only times that a vicious dog may be allowed out of
the enclosure are as follows:
      a.   If it is necessary for the owner or keeper to obtain veterinary care
for the dog;
      b.   In the case of an emergency or natural disaster where the dog's life
is threatened; or
      c.   To comply with the order of a court of competent jurisdiction;
provided, that the dog is securely muzzled and restrained with a leash not
exceeding six feet (6') in length, and shall be under the direct control and
supervision of the owner or keeper of the dog or muzzled in its residence.
   2.   Impoundment And Destruction Of Unenclosed Vicious Dog:
      a.   Any dog which has been found to be a vicious dog and which is not
confined to an enclosure shall be impounded by the Administrator or the law
enforcement authority having jurisdiction in such area and shall be destroyed
by lethal injection by the Animal Control Facility or a licensed veterinarian.
      b.   If the owner of the dog has not appealed the impoundment order to
the Circuit Court in Effingham County within fifteen (15) working days, the dog
may be euthanized.
   3.   Appeals: Upon filing a notice of appeal within fifteen (15) working
days, the order of euthanasia shall be automatically stayed pending the outcome
of the appeal. The owner shall bear the burden of timely notification to the
Animal Control Warden and the Administrator in writing, and all costs of the
stay of the euthanasia order shall be borne by the owner. A dog found to be a
vicious dog shall not be released to the owner until the Effingham County
Animal Control Warden or the Administrator approves the enclosure, as defined
in section
5-2-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 606-08, 11-3-2008)
E.   Exemptions:
   1.   Guide dogs for the blind or hearing impaired, support dogs for the
physically handicapped, and sentry, guard, or police-owned dogs are exempt from
this section; provided, an attack or injury to a person occurs while the dog is
performing duties as expected. (Ord. 606-08, 11-3-2008; amd. 2017 Code)
   2.   To qualify for exemption under this subsection E, each such dog shall
be currently inoculated against rabies as provided in section 8 of the Illinois
Animal Control Act, 510 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8.
   3.   It shall be the duty of the owner of such exempted dog to notify the
Administrator of changes of address.
   4.   In the case of sentry or guard dog, the owner shall keep the
Administrator advised of the location where such dog will be stationed. (Ord.
606-08, 11-3-2008)
   5.   The Administrator shall provide the Dieterich Fire Protection District
with a categorized list of such exempted dogs, and shall promptly notify the
district of any address changes reported to him or her. (Ord. 606-08, 11-3-
2008; amd. 2017 Code)
5-2-11: BREAKING OPEN POUND PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to break open or assist in breaking open
the pound, or to let out or assist in letting out or in the escape of any
animal impounded therein. (Ord. 606-08, 11-3-2008; amd. 2017 Code)
5-2-12: ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS:
A.   Enforcement Officials: Primary enforcement of this chapter shall be with
the Effingham County Animal Control Department. The Village may enforce this
chapter through the Village Attorney, officers of the Effingham County
Sheriff's Department, officers and/or employees of the Effingham County Animal
Control Department, and/or the Corporate Authorities of the Village or such
other persons or agencies so designated by the Corporate Authorities of the
Village. (Ord. 606-08, 11-3-2008; amd. 2017 Code)
B.   Powers And Duties:
   1.   It shall be the duty of Animal Control Officers and others specifically
designated by the Administrator to enforce any of the provisions of this
chapter or Statutes of the State of Illinois as they pertain to animals.
   2.   Without limiting those powers and duties prescribed by law and
ordinance, Animal Control Officers and others specifically designated by the
Administrator shall:
      a.   Exercise the powers and perform the duties contained in this
chapter; and
      b.   Impound animals pursuant to this chapter at the Effingham County
Animal Shelter or other facility approved by the Corporate Authorities of the
Village.
   3.   The Animal Control Officers and others specifically designated by the
Administrator are authorized to go onto private property in order to enforce
this chapter; however, such persons may not enter a private dwelling house
without a valid warrant or consent of an occupant. (Ord. 606-08, 11-3-2008)
C.   Interference With Officers Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person
to interfere with, obstruct, or prevent the performance of any officer or agent
of the Village or other appropriate public agency in the performance of his
duties under this chapter. (Ord. 606-08, 11-3-2008; amd. 2017 Code)
D.   Nonliability Of Enforcement Officials: Any Animal Control Officer, or any
other person specifically designated by the Administrator, or any person
enforcing the provisions of this chapter shall not be held responsible for any
accident or disease that may happen to any animal in the enforcement of this
chapter. (Ord. 606-08, 11-3-2008)
CHAPTER 3
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Assault And Battery
5-3-2: Petit Larceny
5-3-3: Disorderly Conduct
5-3-4: Noise 1  (Rep. by Ord. 911-2018, 8-6-2018)
5-3-5: Disturbing Assemblies
5-3-6: Offenses Involving Morals And Decency
5-3-6-1: Profane Or Obscene Language
5-3-6-2: Indecent Exposure
5-3-6-3: Harmful Materials To Minors
5-3-6-4: Indecent Graffiti
5-3-6-5: Public Nudity
5-3-6-6: Prostitution
5-3-7: Damage To Property
5-3-8: Throwing Missiles
5-3-9: Trespassing
5-3-10: Weapons Control
5-3-11: Hindering Or Obstructing Village Officials
5-3-12: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 7 of this title.
5-3-1: ASSAULT AND BATTERY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to assault, strike or fight another (except
in his lawful self-defense). (1945 Code § 11-1)
5-3-2: PETIT LARCENY:
It shall be unlawful to commit the crime of petit larceny. (1945 Code § 11-24)
5-3-3: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb the peace or be guilty of
disorderly conduct or of conduct calculated to provoke a breach of the peace.
(1945 Code § 11-2)
5-3-4: NOISE 1 :
(Rep. by Ord. 911-2018, 8-6-2018)
 
Notes
1 2. See chapter 7 of this title.
5-3-5: DISTURBING ASSEMBLIES:
It shall be unlawful to wilfully or heedlessly disturb any assembly of persons
met for religious worship or for any lawful meeting or assembly. (1945 Code §
11-3)
5-3-6: OFFENSES INVOLVING MORALS AND DECENCY:
5-3-6-1: PROFANE OR OBSCENE LANGUAGE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use profane or obscene language in or on
any public place to the annoyance or disturbance of others. (1945 Code § 11-5)
5-3-6-2: INDECENT EXPOSURE:
A.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any place where the conduct may reasonably be expected to be
viewed by others.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT: Any knowing touching or fondling by the victim or the
accused, either directly or through clothing, of the sex organs, anus, or
breast of the victim or the accused, or any body part of the body of a child
under thirteen (13) years of age, or any transfer or transmission of semen by
the accused upon any part of the clothed or unclothed body of the victim, for
the purpose of sexual gratification or arousal of the victim or the accused.
   SEXUAL PENETRATION: Any contact, however slight, between the sex organ or
anus of one persona and an object or the sex organ, mouth, or anus of another
person, or any intrusion, however slight, of any part of the body of one (1)
person or of any animal or object into the sex organ or anus of another person,
including, but not limited to, cunnilingus, fellatio, or anal penetration.
Evidence of emission of semen is not required to prove sexual penetration.
B.   Restrictions:
   1.   Any person of the age of seventeen (17) years and upwards who performs
any of the following acts in a public place commits a public indecency which is
unlawful:
      a.   An act of sexual penetration or sexual conduct; or
      b.   A lewd exposure of the body done with intent to arouse or to satisfy
the sexual desire of the person.
   2.   For purposes of this subsection B, breast-feeding of infants is not an
act of public indecency.
C.   Penalty: A person who knowingly violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or
refuses to comply with or resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of
this section shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be punishable by a fine of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (2017
Code)
5-3-6-3: HARMFUL MATERIALS TO MINORS:
A.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   DISTRIBUTE: To transfer possession of, whether with or without
consideration.
   HARMFUL TO MINORS: That quality of any description or representation, in
whatever form, of nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement, or sadomasochistic
abuse, when, taken as a whole, it: 1) predominately appeals to the prurient
interest in sex of minors; 2) is patently offensive to prevailing standards in
the adult community in the State of Illinois as a whole with respect to what is
suitable material for minors; and 3) lacks serious literary, artistic,
political, or scientific value for minors.
   KNOWINGLY: Having knowledge of the contents of the subject matter, or
recklessly failing to exercise reasonable inspection which would have disclosed
the contents.
   MATERIAL: 1. Any picture, photograph, drawing, sculpture, film, video game,
computer game, video or similar visual depiction, including any such
representation or image which is stored electronically; or
   2.   Any book, magazine, or printed matter however reproduced, or recorded
audio of any sort.
   MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18).
   NUDITY: The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or
buttocks with less than fully opaque covering, or the showing of the female
breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any portion below the top of
the nipple, or the depiction of covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state.
   PERSON: Unless otherwise indicated, any individual, firm, partnership,
limited partnership, organization, corporation, limited liability company,
association, proprietorship or other legal entity. The term shall also include
an executor, administrator, trustee, receiver or other representative appointed
according to law.
   SADOMASOCHISTIC ABUSE: Flagellation or torture by a person clad in
undergarments, a mask or bizarre costume, or the condition of being fettered,
bound or otherwise physically restrained on the part of one (1) clothed for
sexual gratification or stimulation.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT: An act of masturbation, sexual intercourse, or physical
contact with a person's clothed or unclothed genitals, pubic area, buttocks or,
if such person be a female, breast.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT: The condition of human male or female genitals when in a
state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
B.   Prohibition To Distribute Material: It shall be unlawful for any person to
distribute material harmful to a minor when a person:
   1.   Knowingly sells, lends, distributes, exhibits to, depicts to, or gives
away to a minor, knowing that the minor is under the age of eighteen (18) or
failing to exercise reasonable care in ascertaining the person's true age:
      a.   Any material which depicts nudity, sexual conduct, or
sadomasochistic abuse, or which contains explicit and detailed verbal
descriptions of narrative accounts of sexual excitement, sexual conduct, or
sadomasochistic abuse, and which, taken as a whole, is harmful to minors; or
      b.   A motion picture, show, or other presentation which depicts nudity,
sexual conduct, or sadomasochistic abuse and is harmful to minors; or
      c.   An admission ticket or pass to premises where there is exhibited or
to be exhibited such a motion picture, show, or other presentation which
depicts nudity, sexual conduct, or sadomasochistic abuse and is harmful to
minors; or
   2.   Admits a minor to premises where there is exhibited or to be exhibited
such a motion picture, show, or other presentation which depicts nudity, sexual
conduct, or sadomasochistic abuse and is harmful to minors, knowing that the
minor is a person under the age of eighteen (18) or failing to exercise
reasonable care in ascertaining the person's true age.
C.   Affirmative Defenses: In any prosecution of an offense arising under this
section, it is an affirmative defense:
   1.   That a minor as to whom the offense is alleged to have committed
exhibited to the accused a draft card, driver's license, birth certificate, or
other official or apparently official document purporting to establish that the
minor was eighteen (18) years of age or older, which was reasonably relied upon
by the accused;
   2.   That the defendant was in a parental or legal guardianship relationship
with the minor or that the minor was accompanied by a parent or legal guardian;
   3.   That the defendant was a bona fide school, museum, or public library,
or was a person acting in the course of his or her employment as an employee or
official of such organization or retail outlet affiliated with and serving the
educational purpose of such organization;
   4.   That the act charged was committed in aid of legitimate scientific or
educational purposes; or
   5.   That an advertisement of material harmful to minors culminated in the
sale or distribution of such material harmful to minors to a minor under
circumstances where there was no personal confrontation of the minor by the
defendant, his or her employees, or agents, as where the order or request for
such material harmful to a minor was transmitted or distributed by mail,
telephone, internet, or similar means of communication, and delivery of such
material to the minor was by mail, freight, internet, or similar means of
transport, which advertisement contained the following statement, or a
substantially similar statement, and that the defendant required the purchaser
to certify that he or she was not under the age of eighteen (18) and that the
purchaser falsely stated that he or she was not under the age of eighteen (18):
   NOTICE
It is unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18) to purchase the
matter advertised. Any person under the age of eighteen (18) that falsely
states that he or she is not under the age of eighteen (18) for the purpose of
obtaining the material advertised is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor under the
laws of the State of Illinois.
D.   Penalties:
   1.   A person who knowingly violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses
to comply with or resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of
subsection B of this section shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punishable by a fine of seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00); provided, however, that a second or subsequent offense of any of the
provisions of subsection B of this section is a Class 4 felony and, upon
conviction, shall be punishable by a fine of seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00).
   2.   A person under the age of eighteen (18) who falsely states, either
orally or in writing, that he or she is not under the age of eighteen (18), or
who presents or offers to any person any evidence of age and identity that is
false or not actually his or her own with the intent of ordering, obtaining,
viewing, or otherwise procuring or attempting to procure or view any material
that is harmful to a minor is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
   3.   A person over the age of eighteen (18) who fails to exercise reasonable
care in ascertaining the true age of a minor, knowingly distributes to, or
sends, or causes to be sent, or exhibits to, or offers to distribute, or
exhibits any "materials harmful to a minor" to a person that he or she believes
is a minor is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
punishable by a fine of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (2017 Code)
5-3-6-4: INDECENT GRAFFITI:
It shall be unlawful for any person to write or draw any indecent or obscene
words or drawings in any place open to public view. (1945 Code § 11-8)
5-3-6-5: PUBLIC NUDITY:
A.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   ENTITY: Any proprietorship, partnership, limited partnership, corporation,
limited liability company, association, business trust, joint venture, joint
stock company, or other for profit or not for profit organization.
   NUDE: The showing of:
   1.   Human male or female genitals or pubic area with less than a fully
opaque covering; or
   2.   Any portion of the anal cleft or cleavage of the male or female
buttocks. Attire that is insufficient to comply with this requirement includes,
but is not limited to, G-strings, T-backs, thongs, and any other clothing or
covering that does not completely and opaquely cover the anal cleft or cleavage
of the male or female buttocks; or
   3.   The portion of the human female breast directly or laterally below a
point immediately above the top of the areola with less than a fully opaque
covering. This definition shall include the entire lower portion of the human
female breast, but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human
female breast exhibited by a dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit, or
other clothing, provided the areola is not exposed.
   PERSON: Any live human being ten (10) years of age or older.
   PLACE PROVIDED OR SET APART FOR NUDITY: Enclosed single sex public
restrooms, enclosed single sex functional shower, locker and/or dressing room
facilities, enclosed motel rooms and hotel rooms designed and intended for
sleeping accommodations, doctors' offices, portions of hospitals, and similar
places in which nudity or exposure is necessarily and customarily expected
outside of the home and sphere of privacy constitutionally protected therein.
This term shall not be deemed to include places where a person's conduct of
being nude is used for his or her profit or where being nude is used for the
promotion of business or is otherwise commercially exploited.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any location frequented by the public, or where the public is
present or likely to be present, or where a person may reasonably be expected
to be observed by members of the public. Public places include, but are not
limited to, streets, sidewalks, parks, beaches, business and commercial
establishments (whether for profit or not for profit, whether open to the
public at large, or whether entrance is limited by a cover charge or membership
requirement), hotels, motels, restaurants, nightclubs, country clubs, cabarets,
and meeting facilities utilized by any religious, social, fraternal or similar
organization. Premises, or portions thereof, such as hotel rooms, used solely
as a private residence, whether permanent or temporary in nature, shall not be
deemed to be a public place.
B.   Restrictions:
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or intentionally
appear nude in a public place or in any other place that is readily visible to
the public, except a place provided or set apart for nudity.
   2.   It shall also be unlawful for any person or entity maintaining, owning,
or operating any public place to operate and to knowingly, or with reason to
know, permit or allow any person to appear nude in such public place, except a
place provided or set apart for nudity.
C.   Penalty: A person who knowingly violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or
refuses to comply with or resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of
this section shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be punishable by a fine of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each
day a violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a
separate offense and shall be fined as such.
D.   Limitation: This section shall not be deemed to address photographs,
movies, video presentations, or any other nonlive performances. (2017 Code)
5-3-6-6: PROSTITUTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any place for the practice of
prostitution or fornication or a house of ill fame. (1945 Code § 11-10)
5-3-7: DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
A.   Generally: It shall be unlawful for anyone to break, deface, destroy or
injure, maliciously and wilfully, any public property, or any private property
of others. (1945 Code § 11-14)
B.   Tampering With Advertisements: It shall be unlawful to molest, remove,
injure, deface or destroy any lawful sign, signboard, show card, bill, poster
or advertisement of another. (1945 Code § 11-22)
5-3-8: THROWING MISSILES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to purposely or heedlessly cart or throw
any stone, dirt, refuse, or similar missiles into any public place, or at any
person or at, upon or against any buildings or premises of others without the
consent of the owner. (1945 Code § 11-21)
5-3-9: TRESPASSING:
A.   Unlawful To Commit Trespass: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to commit a trespass within the Village upon either public or
private property.
B.   Specific Trespasses: Without constituting any limitation upon the
provisions of subsection A of this section, any of the following acts by any
person, firm or corporation shall be deemed included among those that
constitute trespasses in violation of the provisions of said subsection A of
this section, and appropriate action may be taken hereunder at any time, or
from time to time, to prevent or suppress any violation or violations of this
section:
   1.   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another, including
any public property, in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at the main
entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or entry or in violation
of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing by any owner or
occupant thereof; or
   2.   The pursuit of a course of conduct or action incidental to the making
of an entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or
entry or in violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in
writing by any owner or occupant thereof; or
   3.   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in the case
of being requested, either orally or in writing, to leave by any owner or
occupant thereof; or
   4.   An entry into or upon any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft made without
the consent of the person having the right to the possession or control
thereof, or a failure or refusal to leave any such vehicle, aircraft or
watercraft after being requested to leave by the person having such right.
(Ord., 10-1-1979)
C.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions
of this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not
exceeding seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord., 10-1-1979; amd. 2017
Code)
5-3-10: WEAPONS CONTROL:
A.   Discharging Firearms: It shall be unlawful for any person to fire or
discharge, or cause to be fired or discharged, any firearm or gun within the
corporate limits of the Village, except any officer of the law who discharges a
firearm or gun in the performance of his or her official duties or by any
citizen who discharges a firearm or gun when lawfully defending his person or
property. (2017 Code)
B.   Concealed Weapons; Display In A Threatening Manner: It shall be unlawful
for any person not an officer duly authorized to carry the same to carry any
revolver, handgun, gun, firearm, pistol, dirk, dagger, dangerous knife, stun
gun, taser, billy club, metallic knuckles, or any knife, commonly referred to
as a switchblade knife, which has a blade that opens automatically by hand
pressure applied to a button, spring or other device in the handle of the
knife, or a ballistic knife, which is a device that propels a knifelike blade
as a projectile by means of a coil spring, elastic material, or compressed gas,
concealed on or about his person, or to flourish or display the same in a
threatening manner, except if carried or possessed in compliance with the
Firearm Concealed Carry Act, 430 Illinois Compiled Statutes 66/5, or the
unlawful use of weapons provisions contained in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/24-1. (1945 Code § 11-25; amd. 2017 Code)
5-3-11: HINDERING OR OBSTRUCTING VILLAGE OFFICIALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully delay, hinder, resist or
obstruct any Village officer, or person authorized by him, in the discharge of
his duty; or to rescue, or attempt to rescue any person from the lawful custody
of said officer; or to neglect or refuse to obey any lawful order or direction
of such officer. (1945 Code § 11-19)
5-3-12: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a fine
of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. (1945 Code § 11-26; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 4
MINORS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Curfew Regulations
5-4-1: CURFEW REGULATIONS:
A.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term "emergency" shall include, but is not
limited to, a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any
situation requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss
of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit
to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN:
   1.   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor; or
   2.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
   PARENT: A person who is:
   1.   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent of another person; or
   2.   At least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized by a parent or
guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways,
alleys, public ways, sidewalks, public property, and the common areas of
schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings, transport facilities,
and shops.
   REMAIN: To:
   1.   Linger or stay; or
   2.   Fail to leave a public place or establishment when requested to do so
by a Police Officer or the owner, operator, Village official, or other person
in control of said public place or establishment.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
B.   Prohibitions:
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of sixteen (16) to
remain or be present at or upon any public place or establishment at the
following times: From ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on Monday to Sunday, inclusive,
and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following day.
   2.   No parent or guardian or other person shall knowingly permit a minor in
his or her custody or control to violate subsection B1 of this section.
C.   Exceptions: The restrictions contained in subsection B of this section
shall not apply to the following:
   1.   A minor accompanied by that minor's parent or guardian;
   2.   When a minor is on an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or
guardian, without any detour or stop;
   3.   When a minor is in a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
   4.   When a minor is engaged in an employment activity or going to or
returning home from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
   5.   When a minor is on the sidewalk abutting the minor's place of residence
or abutting the residence of a next door neighbor if the neighbor did not
complain about the minor's presence;
   6.   When a minor is attending an official school, religious, or other
recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or
governmental agency, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor, or going to or returning home from, without any
detour or stop, an official school, religious, or other recreational activity
sponsored by a government or governmental agency, a civic organization, or
another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor;
   7.   When a minor is exercising First Amendment rights protected by the
United States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of
speech, and the right of assembly; or
   8.   When a minor is married or is an emancipated minor under the
Emancipation of Minors Act.
D.   Penalty: Any person who violates any provision of this section commits a
civil ordinance violation and shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
each offense. (2017 Code)
CHAPTER 5
FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: Prohibitions Generally
5-5-3: Storage Of Explosives
5-5-4: Consumer Fireworks And Pyrotechnic Displays
5-5-4-1: Permit Requirements
5-5-4-2: Site And Safety Requirements
5-5-4-3: Operator Qualifications And Restrictions
5-5-5: Enforcement
5-5-6: Violation; Penalties
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS: Those fireworks that must comply with the construction,
chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the U.S. Consumer Products
Safety Commission, as set forth in 16 CFR parts 1500 and 1507, and classified
as fireworks UN0336 or UN0337 by the United States Department of Transportation
under 49 CFR 172.101. "Consumer fireworks" shall not include snake or glow worm
pellets; smoke devices; trick noisemakers known as party poppers, booby traps,
snappers, trick matches, cigarette loads, and auto burglar alarms; sparklers;
toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other devices in which paper or plastic
caps containing twenty five hundredths (0.25) grain or less of explosive
compound are used, provided they are so constructed that the hand cannot come
in contact with the cap when in place for the explosion; and toy pistol paper
or plastic caps that contain less than twenty hundredths (0.20) grain of
explosive mixture, the sale and use of which shall be permitted at all times.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS DISPLAY: The detonation, ignition, or deflagration of
consumer fireworks to produce a visual or audible effect.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS DISPLAY PERMIT: The permit issued by the President
authorizing the display of consumer fireworks within the corporate boundaries
of the Village of Dieterich.
   DISPLAY FIREWORKS: 1.3G or special effects fireworks or as further defined
in the Pyrotechnic Distributor and Operator Licensing Act, 225 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 227/1 et seq.
   FLAME EFFECT: The detonation, ignition, or deflagration of flammable gases,
liquids, or special materials to produce a thermal, physical, visual, or
audible effect before the public, invitees, or licensees, regardless of whether
admission is charged, in accordance with the National Fire Protection
Association 160 guidelines, and as may be further defined in the Pyrotechnic
Distributor and Operator Licensing Act, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 227/1 et
seq.
   LEAD PYROTECHNIC OPERATOR: An individual who is responsible for the safety,
setup, and discharges of the pyrotechnic display and who is licensed pursuant
to the Pyrotechnic Distributor and Operator Licensing Act, 225 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 227/1 et seq.
1.3G FIREWORKS: Those fireworks used for professional outdoor displays and
classified as fireworks under UN0333, UN0334, or UN0335 by the United States
Department of Transportation under 49 CFR 172.101.
   PERMITTEE: A person applying for a consumer fireworks display permit or
pyrotechnic display permit as provided herein.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, limited partnership,
organization, corporation, limited liability company, company, consortium,
joint venture, commercial entity, association, proprietorship or other legal
entity, State, Municipality, or political subdivision of a State or any agency,
department, or instrumentality of the United States and any officer, agent,
member, or employee of these entities. The term shall also include an executor,
administrator, trustee, receiver or other representative appointed according to
law.
   PRESIDENT: The Village of Dieterich President, or his or her designee.
   PUBLIC USE: The use of property for recreational parks or schools purposes
by the general public.
   PYROTECHNIC DISPLAY: The detonation, ignition, or deflagration of display
fireworks or flame effects to produce visual or audible effects of an
exhibitional nature before the public, invitees, or licensees, regardless of
whether admission is charged, and as may be further defined in the Pyrotechnic
Distributor and Operator Licensing Act, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 227/1 et
seq.
   PYROTECHNIC DISPLAY PERMIT: The permit issued by the President authorizing
the display of display fireworks or flame effects within the corporate
boundaries of the Village of Dieterich.
   SPECIAL EFFECTS FIREWORKS: Pyrotechnic devices used for special effects by
professionals in the performing in conjunction with theatrical, musical, or
other productions that are similar to consumer fireworks in chemical
compositions and construction, but are not intended for consumer use and are
not labeled as such or identified as intended for indoor use. "Special effects
fireworks" are classified as fireworks UN0431 or UN0432 by the United States
Department of Transportation under 49 CFR 172.101. (Ord. 617-09, 6-1-2009; amd.
2017 Code)
5-5-2: PROHIBITIONS GENERALLY:
A.   Sale Of Fireworks: No person shall sell, expose for sale, offer for sale,
or display for sale consumer fireworks or display fireworks within the
corporate boundaries of the Village, except in compliance with the Pyrotechnic
Use Act, 425 Illinois Compiled Statutes 35/0.01 et seq., and the Fireworks
Regulation Act of Illinois, 425 Illinois Compiled Statutes 30/1 et seq. (Ord.
617-09, 6-1-2009; amd. 2017 Code)
B.   Display Of Fireworks:
   1.   It shall be unlawful to display, discharge, or give any consumer
fireworks display or pyrotechnic display within the corporate boundaries of the
Village, except in connection with public exhibitions as is provided in this
chapter. (Ord. 617-09, 6-1-2009)
   2.   It shall be unlawful to display, discharge, or give any consumer
fireworks display or pyrotechnic display on or over any property zoned R-1, R-
2, R-3, or R-4 within the corporate boundaries of the Village at any time,
except any property so zoned and actually used for public use as defined in
section
5-5-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 617-09, 6-1-2009; amd. 2017 Code)
5-5-3: STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES:
All explosives including, but not limited to, consumer fireworks and display
fireworks, shall be stored or kept in accordance with the rules of the Illinois
State Fire Marshal, Federal and State regulations, this Code, and this chapter.
(Ord. 617-09, 6-1-2009)
5-5-4: CONSUMER FIREWORKS AND PYROTECHNIC DISPLAYS:
5-5-4-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Permits Required; Exemptions: No consumer fireworks display or pyrotechnic
display shall be given, displayed, discharged, and/or conducted unless a
consumer fireworks display permit or pyrotechnic display permit therefor is
first secured as provided in this section
5-5-4.
B.   Applications For Permits:
   1.   Consumer Fireworks Display Permit: Any person desiring to conduct a
consumer fireworks display within the corporate boundaries of the Village shall
first apply for a consumer fireworks display permit with the President by
filing the consumer fireworks display permit application, a true and accurate
copy of which is on file in the Village as Exhibit A and hereby incorporated by
reference as though fully stated.
   2.   Pyrotechnic Display Permit: Any person desiring to conduct a
pyrotechnic display within the corporate boundaries of the Village shall first
apply for a pyrotechnic display permit with the President by filing the
pyrotechnic display permit application, a true and accurate copy of which is on
file in the Village as Exhibit B and hereby incorporated by reference as though
fully stated.
C.   Bond, Insurance And State License Required: Any person desiring to conduct
a consumer fireworks display or pyrotechnic display within the corporate
boundaries of the Village shall be required to: 1) provide a one thousand
dollar ($1,000.00) public liability bond or cash bond with the Village in
connection with the consumer fireworks display permit application or
pyrotechnic display application; 2) provide proof of public liability insurance
in the amount of not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00), naming the
Village as an additional insured on a primary, noncontributory basis; and 3) be
properly licensed and/or trained by the Illinois State Fire Marshal as required
pursuant to the Pyrotechnic Use Act, 425 Illinois Compiled Statutes 35/0.01 et
seq.
D.   Permit Fee: Upon filing an application for a consumer fireworks display
permit or pyrotechnic display permit, the permittee shall pay to the Village a
nonrefundable fireworks display permit fee in the amount of one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00).
E.   Investigation Of Applicant; Approval Or Denial Of Permits: The consumer
fireworks display permit application and/or pyrotechnic display permit
application shall be filed with the President not less than fifteen (15) days
before the date of the proposed consumer fireworks display or pyrotechnic
display unless agreed to otherwise by the Village and the President. The
President shall make, or cause to be made, an investigation of the site of the
proposed consumer fireworks display or pyrotechnic display for the purpose of
determining whether there is compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
The President shall confer with the Chief of the Dieterich Fire Protection
District for the purpose of inspecting the site of the proposed consumer
fireworks display or pyrotechnic display, determining the competence of the
actual operators of the consumer fireworks display or pyrotechnic display as
set forth in the consumer fireworks display permit application or pyrotechnic
display permit application, determining that the consumer fireworks display or
pyrotechnic display can be performed in full compliance with the rules adopted
by the Illinois State Fire Marshal, and determining that the consumer fireworks
display or pyrotechnic display shall not be hazardous to the property or
endanger any person or persons. No consumer fireworks display permit and/or
pyrotechnic display permit shall be issued unless it is signed by the Chief of
the Dieterich Fire Protection District. The President shall issue a consumer
fireworks display permit and/or pyrotechnic display permit if the applicant(s)
and the consumer fireworks display or pyrotechnic display comply with this
chapter and applicable Illinois and Federal law. The President shall have the
authority to deny any application for a consumer fireworks display permit or
pyrotechnic display permit if the applicant or the proposed consumer fireworks
display or pyrotechnic display site fails to comply with this chapter or
applicable State or Federal law.
F.   Nontransferability Of Permits: Consumer fireworks display permits and/or
pyrotechnic display permits shall not be transferable or assignable. The
attempted transfer or assignment of a consumer fireworks display permit or a
pyrotechnic display permit to any person shall terminate the consumer fireworks
display permit and/or pyrotechnic display permit.
G.   Possession Of Permits: The permittee shall have in his possession, at all
times while participating in a consumer fireworks display or pyrotechnic
display, a copy of the consumer fireworks display permit and/or pyrotechnic
display permit issued to him by the Village and shall show it to any person who
requests to see it. (Ord. 617-09, 6-1-2009; amd. 2017 Code)
5-5-4-2: SITE AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Location Of Exhibition: A consumer fireworks display or pyrotechnic
display shall be permitted only when the actual point at which the consumer
fireworks, display fireworks, and/or flame effects are to be fired is at least
two hundred feet (200') from the nearest permanent building, public highway or
railroad or other means of travel, and one hundred feet (100') from the nearest
aboveground telephone line, electric line, tree or other overhead obstruction.
B.   Proximity Of Audiences: The audience at any consumer fireworks display or
pyrotechnic display shall be restrained behind lines of a perimeter at least
one hundred fifty feet (150') from the point at which the consumer fireworks,
display fireworks, and/or flame effects are discharged, and only persons
identified in the application shall be allowed inside said perimeter. (Ord.
617-09, 6-1-2009; amd. 2017 Code)
C.   Launching Projectiles; Falling Residue:
   1.   Launching Tubes: All launching tubes shall be set in the ground and/or
securely fastened to the ground, as approved by the President.
   2.   Angle Of Launch: All consumer fireworks, display fireworks, and/or
flame effects that fire a projectile shall be so set up so that the projectile
will go into the air as nearly as possible in a vertical direction; provided,
that where such consumer fireworks, display fireworks, and/or flame effects are
to be fired beside a lake or other large body of water, they may be directed in
such a manner that the falling residue from the detonation will fall into such
body of water. (Ord. 617-09, 6-1-2009)
D.   Wind: No consumer fireworks display or pyrotechnic display shall be held
during any windstorm in which the wind reaches a velocity of more than thirty
(30) miles per hour. In such cases, the President may authorize the consumer
fireworks display or pyrotechnic display at a future date suitable to the group
holding the consumer fireworks display or pyrotechnic display. (Ord. 617-09, 6-
1-2009; amd. 2017 Code)
E.   Fire Extinguishers Required: At least two (2) fire extinguishers approved
by the President shall be kept by the permittee at such locations designated by
the President.
F.   Transporting Fireworks And Flame Effects: All consumer fireworks, display
fireworks, and/or flame effects shall be transported and stored in a metal fire
resistant container with an automatic self-closing cover, as approved by the
President, and also complying with this chapter and applicable State and
Federal law. (Ord. 617-09, 6-1-2009)
G.   Disposal Of Undetonated Fireworks: Any consumer fireworks, display
fireworks, and/or flame effects that remain undetonated after the consumer
fireworks display or pyrotechnic display is concluded shall be immediately
disposed of outside of the corporate boundaries of the Village in accordance
with applicable law and in a safe manner. (Ord. 617-09, 6-1-2009; amd. 2017
Code)
5-5-4-3: OPERATOR QUALIFICATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
A.   Pyrotechnic Displays:
   1.   Lead Operators: The persons in actual charge of a pyrotechnic display
shall be able-bodied and at least twenty one (21) years of age and competent
for the task. Not less than two (2) licensed lead pyrotechnic operators shall
conduct and supervise each pyrotechnic display, and they shall be constantly on
duty during the pyrotechnic display. All operators shall be prohibited from
drinking alcoholic beverages or being under the influence of any controlled
substances at least five (5) hours immediately prior to and during the
pyrotechnic display.
   2.   Assistants: There shall be at all times not less than two (2) persons
assisting the licensed lead pyrotechnic operators on duty during a pyrotechnic
display. All persons assisting at a pyrotechnic display shall be prohibited
from drinking alcoholic beverages or being under the influence of any
controlled substances at least five (5) hours immediately prior to and during
the pyrotechnic display. Any person involved in and assisting in any function
related to the actual setup of a pyrotechnic display shall meet all of the
following minimum requirements:
      a.   Must be at least eighteen (18) years of age; and
      b.   Must be registered to assist a licensed lead pyrotechnics operator
with the Office of the Illinois State Fire Marshal; and
      c.   Has not been declared incompetent by any competent court by reason
of mental or physical defect or disease unless a court has since declared the
person competent; and
      d.   Has not wilfully violated any provision of the Pyrotechnic
Distributor and Operator Licensing Act, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 227/1 et
seq.; and
      e.   Does not have an addiction to or dependency on alcohol or drugs that
is likely to endanger the public at a pyrotechnic display; and
      f.   Has not been convicted in any jurisdiction of any felony within the
five (5) years prior to the pyrotechnic display; and
      g.   Must not be a fugitive from justice.
B.   Consumer Fireworks Displays: The persons in actual charge of a consumer
fireworks display shall be able-bodied and at least twenty one (21) years of
age and competent for the task. Each consumer fireworks display shall be
conducted and supervised by a consumer operator who has received training from
a consumer fireworks training class approved by the Office of the State Fire
Marshal, and he shall be constantly on duty during the consumer fireworks
display. There shall be at all times not less than one (1) person assisting the
consumer operator during a consumer fireworks display. All consumer operators
and any person involved and/or assisting in any function related to actual
setup and firing of a consumer fireworks display shall be prohibited from
drinking alcoholic beverages or being under the influence of any controlled
substances at least five (5) hours immediately prior to and during the consumer
fireworks display. Additionally, consumer operators and any person involved in
and assisting in any function related to the actual setup of a consumer
fireworks display shall meet all of the following minimum requirements:
   1.   Must be at least twenty one (21) years of age; and
   2.   Has not been declared incompetent by any competent court by reason of
mental or physical defect or disease unless a court has since declared the
person competent; and
   3.   Does not have an addiction to or dependency on alcohol or drugs that is
likely to endanger the public at a consumer fireworks display; and
   4.   Has not been convicted in any jurisdiction of any felony within the
five (5) years prior to the consumer fireworks display; and
   5.   Must not be a fugitive from justice. (Ord. 617-09, 6-1-2009; amd. 2017
Code)
5-5-5: ENFORCEMENT:
A.   Inspections: The President and the Chief of the Dieterich Fire Protection
District shall be authorized to inspect the location specified in the consumer
fireworks display permit application and/or pyrotechnic display permit
application as the site for the consumer fireworks display or pyrotechnic
display at any time, with or without notice to the permittee. In the event the
President determines that a violation of this chapter and/or State or Federal
law has occurred, the President shall:
   1.   Notify the Dieterich Fire Protection District; and
   2.   Order the permittee to cease the consumer fireworks display or
pyrotechnic display; and
   3.   Immediately revoke the permittee's consumer fireworks display permit
and/or pyrotechnic display permit; and
   4.   Take necessary steps to close the site specified in the consumer
fireworks display permit application and/or pyrotechnic display permit
application as the site for the consumer fireworks display or pyrotechnic
display and otherwise prevent the permittee continuing or giving a consumer
fireworks display or pyrotechnic display within the corporate boundaries of the
Village; and
   5.   Direct the Village, via the Office of the Village Attorney, to issue
appropriate citations to the permittee or such person violating this chapter,
or take such other action as authorized by applicable law, including, but not
limited to, the arrest of the permittee or such person violating this chapter;
and (Ord. 617-09, 6-1-2009; amd. 2017 Code)
   6.   Take possession of any undetonated consumer fireworks, display
fireworks, and/or flame effects, and safely store the same pending an order of
a court of competent jurisdiction.
B.   Agreement With Fire Protection District: The President is hereby
authorized to execute such documents as may be necessary to enter into
agreements with the Dieterich Fire Protection District to perform such
inspection and enforcement services as required under this chapter and is
authorized to reimburse the Dieterich Fire Protection District for said
services in an amount not to exceed the amount of the permit fee referenced in
subsection
 5-5-4-1D of this chapter. (Ord. 617-09, 6-1-2009)
5-5-6: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
In addition to any remedy or penalty provided in 425 Illinois Compiled Statutes
35/1 et seq., any person who violates any provision of this chapter commits a
civil ordinance violation. The Village Attorney shall prosecute such violation.
Upon entry of a judgment in favor of the Village, the violator(s) shall be
fined not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and not more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. Each day that a violation
of this chapter continues shall constitute a separate and distinct violation
for which the violator(s) shall be fined. In addition to any fine, the Village
may seek injunctive and declaratory relief directing the violator(s) to cure or
abate the violation. (Ord. 617-09, 6-1-2009)
CHAPTER 6
DISCRIMINATION IN HOUSING
SECTION:
5-6-1: Village Policy
5-6-2: Definitions
5-6-3: Prohibited Acts
5-6-4: Penalty
5-6-1: VILLAGE POLICY:
A.   In furthering the policy of the State of Illinois as expressed in its
Constitution and other laws and in order that the safety and general welfare,
peace and health of all the inhabitants of the Village may be ensured, it is
hereby declared the policy of the Village to assure equal opportunity to all
residents, regardless of race, color, religion, gender, creed, ancestry,
national origin, or physical or mental disability, order of protection status,
familial status, marital status, age, military status, sexual orientation,
pregnancy or unfavorable discharge from the military to live in decent,
sanitary, healthful, standard living quarters.
B.   It is the policy of the Village that no owner, lessee, sublessee,
assignee, managing agent, or other person, firm or corporation having the right
to sell, rent, lease or otherwise control any housing accommodation and/or real
property within the Village, or any agent of these, shall refuse to sell, rent,
lease, or otherwise deny to or withhold from any person or group of persons
such housing accommodations and/or real property because of race, color,
religion, gender, creed, ancestry, national origin, or physical or mental
disability, order of protection status, familial status, marital status, age,
military status, sexual orientation, pregnancy or unfavorable discharge from
the military of such person or persons or discriminate against any person or
persons because of race, color, religion, gender, creed, ancestry, national
origin, or physical or mental disability, order of protection status, familial
status, marital status, age, military status, sexual orientation, pregnancy or
unfavorable discharge from the military in the conditions, terms, privileges of
the sale, rental or lease of any housing accommodation and/or property or in
the furnishing of facilities and/or services in connection therewith. (Ord.
612-09, 3-2-2009; amd. 2017 Code)
C.   Relocation shall be carried out in a manner that will promote maximum
choice within the community's total housing supply; lessen racial, ethnic, and
economic concentrations; and facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive
patterns of occupancy and use of public and private facilities. (Ord. 612-09,
3-2-2009)
5-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context, the following
terms shall have the meanings as described in this section and as used in this
chapter:
   DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL, STANDARD LIVING QUARTERS: Housing which is in a
sound, clean, and weathertight condition in conformance with applicable local,
State and national codes.
   DISCRIMINATE; DISCRIMINATION: Any difference expressed in any way toward a
person or persons in the terms of the sale, exchange, lease, rental or
financing for housing accommodation and/or real property in regard to such
sale, exchange, rental, lease or finance because of race, color, religion,
gender, creed, ancestry, national origin, or physical or mental disability,
order of protection status, familial status, marital status, age, military
status, sexual orientation, pregnancy or unfavorable discharge from the
military of such person.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: Any person, institution or business entity of any
kind which loans money to persons and receives as security for said loans a
secured interest of any kind in the real property of the borrower.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION: Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is
used or occupied, or maintained, arranged or designed to be used or occupied,
as a home, residence or sleeping place of one (1) or more human beings, or any
real estate so used, designated or intended for such use.
   OWNER: Any person/persons who hold legal or equitable title to or own any
beneficial interest in any real property or who hold legal or equitable title
to shares of, or hold any beneficial interest in, any real estate cooperative
which owns any real property and/or housing accommodations.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER: Any person, partnership, association, corporation and/or
agent thereof who, for a fee or other valuable consideration, offers, sells,
purchases, exchanges or rents, or negotiates for the sale, purchase, exchange
or rental of, a housing accommodation and/or real property of another, or
collects rental for the use of housing accommodation and/or real property of
another.
   REAL PROPERTY: Any real estate, vacant land, building, structure or housing
accommodations within the corporate limits of the Village of Dieterich,
Illinois. (Ord. 612-09, 3-2-2009; amd. 2017 Code)
5-6-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sublessee, real
estate broker or salesman, financial institution or employee of the financial
institution, advertiser, or agent of any or all of the foregoing, to
discriminate against any person or persons because of their race, color,
religion, gender, creed, ancestry, national origin, or physical or mental
disability, order of protection status, familial status, marital status, age,
military status, sexual orientation, pregnancy or unfavorable discharge from
the military with regard to the sale, exchange or rental or any dealing
concerning any housing accommodation and/or real property. In addition to the
foregoing, it shall also be unlawful for any real estate broker or employee
thereof, owner or other person, or financial institution dealing with housing
or real property in the Village:
A.   To discriminate against any person in the availability of or the price,
terms, conditions, or privileges of any kind relating to the sale, rental,
lease, or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in the
Village or in furnishing of any facilities or services in connection therewith.
B.   To publish or circulate, or cause to be published or circulated, any
notice, statement or advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to use any form
of application for the purchase, lease, rental or financing of real property,
or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective purchase,
rental or lease of such real estate which expresses directly or indirectly any
discrimination as to race, color, religion, gender, creed, ancestry, national
origin, or physical or mental disability, order of protection status, familial
status, marital status, age, military status, sexual orientation, pregnancy or
unfavorable discharge from the military of any person.
C.   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing loans,
accepting mortgages or otherwise obtaining or making available funds for the
purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance of
any housing accommodation and/or real property.
D.   To solicit for sale or lease, or listing for the sale or lease, of any
housing accommodation and/or real property on the grounds of loss of value
because of the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, gender, creed, ancestry,
national origin, or physical or mental disability, order of protection status,
familial status, marital status, age, military status, sexual orientation,
pregnancy or unfavorable discharge from the military.
E.   To distribute or cause to be distributed written material or statements
designed to induce any owner of any housing accommodation and/or real property
to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or prospective
change in the race, color, religion, gender, creed, ancestry, national origin,
or physical or mental disability, order of protection status, familial status,
marital status, age, military status, sexual orientation, pregnancy or
unfavorable discharge from the military of persons in the neighborhood.
F.   To make any misrepresentation concerning the listing for sale, or the
anticipated listing for sale, or the sale of any housing accommodation and/or
real property for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale or
listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, gender, creed, ancestry, national origin, or
physical or mental disability, order of protection status, familial status,
marital status, age, military status, sexual orientation, pregnancy or
unfavorable discharge from the military in the area will or may result in the
lowering of property values in the block, neighborhood or area in which the
property is located.
G.   For an owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent or otherwise
deal with such owner's housing accommodations and/or real property with any
limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, gender, creed, ancestry,
national origin, or physical or mental disability, order of protection status,
familial status, marital status, age, military status, sexual orientation,
pregnancy or unfavorable discharge from the military.
H.   For an owner to refuse to sell, rent, or otherwise deal with any housing
accommodation and/or real property because of race, color, religion, gender,
creed, ancestry, national origin, or physical or mental disability, order of
protection status, familial status, marital status, age, military status,
sexual orientation, pregnancy or unfavorable discharge from the military of the
proposed buyer or tenant. (Ord. 612-09, 3-2-2009; amd. 2017 Code)
5-6-4: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be punishable by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day a violation continues
shall constitute a separate violation. This section shall in no way abrogate or
impair the right of the Village to specifically enforce, by any legal means,
any of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 612-09, 3-2-2009; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 7
NOISE CONTROL
SECTION:
5-7-1: Purpose
5-7-2: Definitions
5-7-3: General Prohibition
5-7-4: Noises Prohibited
5-7-5: Exemptions
5-7-6: Penalty
5-7-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect, preserve, and promote the health,
safety, welfare, peace, and quiet of the citizens of the Village of Dieterich,
Illinois, through the reduction, control, and prevention of loud and raucous
noise, or any noise which unreasonably disturbs, injures, or endangers the
comfort, repose, health, peace, or safety of reasonable persons of ordinary
sensitivity. (Ord. 897-18, 5-21-2018)
5-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   EMERGENCY: Shall mean any occurrence or set of circumstances involving
actual or imminent physical trauma or property damage demanding immediate
attention.
   EMERGENCY WORK: Shall mean any work performed for the purpose of preventing
or alleviating physical trauma or property damage, whether actually caused or
threatened by an emergency, or work or private or public utilities when
restoring utility service.
   NOISE SENSITIVE AREA: Shall mean any area, which includes a posted area
where a school, hospital, nursing home, church, court, public library, or
similar institution is located.
   PERSON: Shall mean any individual, firm, corporation, limited liability
company, partnership, society, association or other legal entity, any public or
private institution, the State of Illinois, municipal corporation or political
subdivision of the State, or any other business unit.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY: Shall mean any street, avenue, boulevard, highway,
sidewalk, alley, or similar place normally accessible to the public which is
owned or controlled by a government entity.
   PUBLIC SPACE: Shall mean any real property or structures on real property
owned by a government entity and normally accessible to the public, including
but not limited to parks and other recreational areas.
   RESIDENTIAL AREA: Shall mean any real property which contains a structure or
building in which one or more persons reside, provided that the structure or
building is properly zoned, or is legally nonconforming, for residential use in
accordance with the terms and maps of the Village of Dieterich, Illinois,
zoning ordinance no. 487, as amended from time to time.
   VILLAGE: Shall mean the Village of Dieterich, Illinois. (Ord. 897-18, 5-21-
2018)
5-7-3: GENERAL PROHIBITION:
A.   No person shall make, continue or cause to be made or continued, the
following activities:
   1.   Any unreasonably loud or raucous noise; or
   2.   Any noise which disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose,
health, peace, or safety of reasonable persons of ordinary sensitivity within
the jurisdictional limits of the Village.
B.   Factors in determining whether a sound is unreasonably loud or raucous
include, but are not limited to, the following:
   1.   The proximity of the sound to sleeping facilities, whether residential
or commercial;
   2.   The land use, nature, and zoning of both the area from which the sound
emanates and the area where the sound is received or perceived;
   3.   The time the sound occurs;
   4.   The duration of the sound; and,
   5.   Whether the sound is recurrent, intermittent, or constant. (Ord. 897-
18, 5-21-2018)
5-7-4: NOISES PROHIBITED:
The following acts are declared to be per se violations of this chapter. This
enumeration does not constitute an exclusive list:
A.   Unreasonable Noises: The unreasonable making of, or knowingly and
unreasonably permitting to be made, any unreasonably loud, boisterous or
unusual noise, disturbance, commotion or vibration in any boarding facility,
dwelling, place of business or other structure, or upon any public street,
park, or other place or building. The ordinary and usual sounds, noises,
commotion or vibration incidental to the operation of these places when
conducted in accordance with the usual standards of practice and in a manner
which will not unreasonably disturb the peace and comfort of adjacent
residences or which will not detrimentally affect the operators of adjacent
places of business are exempted from this provision.
B.   Vehicle Horns, Signaling Devices, And Similar Devices: The sounding of any
horn, signaling device, or other similar device on any automobile, motorcycle,
or other vehicle on any right-of- way or in any public space of the Village for
more than ten (10) consecutive seconds. The sounding of any horn, signaling
device, or other similar device as a danger warning is exempt from this
prohibition.
C.   Nonemergency Signaling Devices: Sounding or permitting the sounding of any
amplified signal from any bell, chime, siren, whistle or similar device,
intended primarily for nonemergency purposes, from any place for more than ten
(10) consecutive seconds in an hourly period. The reasonable sounding of such
devices by houses of religious worship, ice cream trucks, and seasonal
contribution solicitors or by the Village for traffic control purposes are
exempt from the operation of this provision.
D.   Emergency Signaling Devices: The intentional sounding or permitting the
sounding outdoors of any emergency signaling device including fire, burglar,
civil defense alarm, siren, whistle, or similar emergency signaling device,
except in an emergency or except as provided in subsections D1 and D2 of this
section:
   1.   Testing of an emergency signaling device shall occur between seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. Any testing shall use the
minimum cycle test time. In no case shall such test time exceed five (5)
minutes. Testing of the emergency signaling system shall not occur more than
once in each calendar month; or,
   2.   Sounding or permitting the sounding of any exterior burglar or fire
alarm or any motor vehicle burglar alarm shall terminate within fifteen (15)
minutes of activation unless an emergency exists. If a false or accidental
activation of an alarm occurs more than twice in a calendar month, the owner or
a person responsible for the alarm shall be in violation of this chapter.
E.   Radios, Televisions, Boom Boxes, Phonographs, Stereos, Musical Instruments
And Similar Devices:
   1.   The use or operation of a radio, televisions, boom boxes, phonographs,
stereos, musical instruments or similar device that produces or reproduces
sound in a manner that is plainly audible to any person other than the player
(s) or operator(s) of the device, and those who are voluntarily listening to
the sound, and which unreasonably disturbs the peace, quiet, and comfort of
neighbors and passersby, or is plainly audible at a distance of fifty feet
(50') from any person in a commercial, industrial area, or public space.
   2.   The use or operation of a radio, televisions, boom boxes, phonographs,
stereos, musical instruments or similar device that produces or reproduces
sound in a manner that is plainly audible to any person other than the player
(s) or operator(s) of the device, and those who are voluntarily listening to
the sound, and unreasonably disturbs the peace, quiet and comfort of neighbors
in residential area or noise-sensitive area, including multifamily or single-
family dwellings.
F.   Loudspeakers, Amplifiers, Public Address Systems, And Similar Devices:
   1.   The unreasonably loud and raucous use or operation of a loudspeaker,
amplifier, public address system, or other device for producing or reproducing
sound between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. on weekdays, and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. on
weekends and holidays in the following areas:
      a.   Within or adjacent to residential area or noise sensitive area;
      b.   Within public space if the sound is plainly audible across the real
property line of the public space from which the sound emanates, and is
unreasonably loud and raucous.
   2.   This shall not apply to any public performance, gathering, or parade
for which prior permission has been obtained from the Village.
G.   Yelling, Shouting, And Similar Activities: Yelling, shouting, hooting,
whistling, or singing in residential area or noise sensitive area or in public
places, between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M., or at any time or place so as to unreasonably disturb the quiet, comfort,
or repose of reasonable persons of ordinary sensitivities.
H.   Animals And Birds: Unreasonably loud and raucous noise emitted by an
animal or bird for which a person is responsible. A person is responsible for
an animal if the person owns, controls or otherwise cares for the animal or
bird. Sounds made by animals or birds in animal shelters, kennels, veterinary
hospitals, pet shops or pet kennels licensed under and in compliance with
licensing and permitting provisions set forth in this Code are exempt from this
subsection H.
I.   Loading Or Unloading Merchandise, Materials, Equipment: The creation of
unreasonably loud, raucous, and excessive noise in connection with the loading
or unloading of any vehicle at a place of business or residence.
J.   Construction Or Repair Of Buildings, Excavations Of Streets And Highways:
The construction, demolition, alteration or repair of any building or the
excavation of streets and highways other than between the hours of seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M., on Monday through Friday,
and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on Saturdays. In
cases of emergency, construction or repair noises are exempt from this
provision. In nonemergency situations, the Village Clerk, or his/her designee,
may grant permission, upon written request, if the Village Clerk, or his/her
designee, determines that the public health and safety, as affected by loud and
raucous noise caused by construction or repair of buildings or excavation of
streets and highways between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. and seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M., will not be impaired, and if the Village Clerk, or his/her
designee, further determine that loss or inconvenience would result to a party
of interest. The permission in nonemergency cases shall be valid for a period
of not more than three (3) days. The permission may be renewed once for a
period of three (3) days or less.
K.   Noise Sensitive Areas (Schools, Courts, Churches, Hospitals, And Similar
Institutions): The creation of any unreasonably loud and raucous noise adjacent
to any noise-sensitive area while it is in use, which unreasonably interferes
with the workings of the institution or which disturbs the persons in these
institutions, provided that conspicuous signs delineating the boundaries of the
noise-sensitive area are displayed in the streets surrounding the noise-
sensitive area.
L.   Grounds Maintenance Equipment, Blowers, And Similar Devices: In
residential area or noise sensitive areas between the hours of nine o'clock (9:
00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., the operation of any noise-creating
blower, power fan, or any internal combustion engine, including, but not
limited to power- driven lawn or garden maintenance equipment, the operation of
which causes noise due to the explosion of operating gases or fluids, provided
that the noise is unreasonably loud and raucous and can be heard across the
property line of the property from which it emanates.
M.   Commercial Establishments Adjacent To Residential Property: Unreasonably
loud and raucous noise from the premises of any commercial establishment,
including any outdoor area which is part of or under the control of the
establishment, between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. which is plainly audible at a distance of five feet (5')
from any residential property.
N.   Amplified Music And Sound Systems; Live Or Recorded Performances:
Amplified music and sound systems of any type or any type of live or recorded
performance.
O.   Sound-Amplifying Device Within A Multiple-Family Structure: It shall be
unlawful to use or operate a sound-amplifying device so that the device
produces loud and raucous sounds within a multiple-family structure from eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) A.M., local time, Sunday through
Saturday. (Ord. 897-18, 5-21-2018)
5-7-5: EXEMPTIONS:
The prohibitions set out in sections
5-7-3 and
 5-7-4 of this chapter, shall not apply to, in addition to the exemptions
specifically set forth within section
 5-7-4 of this chapter, the sounds caused by the following:
A.   Motor vehicles on traffic ways of the Village, provided that the
prohibition of subsection
5-7-4B of this chapter continues to apply.
B.   Repairs of utility structures which pose a clear and immediate danger to
life, health, or significant loss of property.
C.   Sirens, whistles, or bells lawfully used by emergency vehicles, or other
alarm systems used in case of fire, collision, civil defense, police activity,
or imminent danger, provided that the prohibition contained in subsection
5-7-4D of this chapter continues to apply.
D.   The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the existence
of an emergency or the emission of sound in the performance of emergency work.
E.   Repairs or excavations of bridges, streets or highways by or on behalf of
the Village, the State, or the Federal government, between the hours of seven
o'clock (7:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., when public welfare and
convenience renders it impractical to perform the work between seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
F.   Outdoor school and playground activities. Reasonable activities conducted
on public playgrounds and public or private school grounds, which are conducted
in accordance with the manner in which such spaces are generally used,
including but not limited to school athletic and school entertainment events.
G.   Other outdoor events. Authorized sporting events, community events, or
other similar outdoor events. (Ord. 897-18, 5-21-2018)
5-7-6: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter commits a civil ordinance
violation and shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00), nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), for each
offense. Each day a violation of this chapter is allowed to continue shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 897-18, 5-21-2018)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Definitions
6-1-2: Authority To Direct Traffic
6-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title, the terms "streets" and "streets and alleys" include
streets, alleys, sidewalks, and any public drives or ways open to public use.
(1945 Code §16-14; amd. 2017 Code)
6-1-2: AUTHORITY TO DIRECT TRAFFIC:
In the event of fire, storm, public emergency or unusual crowded traffic
conditions, any Village officer is empowered to direct traffic or halt traffic
or close streets to traffic when apparently necessary for safety, and all
persons shall heed and obey the directions of any such officer. Any person
violating this section shall be subject to a fine of not less than two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
(1945 Code §16-15; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Parking To Obstruct Traffic Prohibited
6-2-2: Parking Prohibited In Specified Places
6-2-3: Truck Parking In Residential Districts
6-2-1: PARKING TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC PROHIBITED:
No automobile, truck, trailer, camper or other vehicle shall be so parked or
placed at any place within the Village in such manner or position as to
obstruct the free use of any street, alley, sidewalk or driveway, or in such
manner that it unnecessarily extends into any street, alley or driveway. Any
person violating this section shall be subject to a fine of not less than ten
dollars ($10.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00). (1945 Code §16-
13; amd. 2017 Code)
6-2-2: PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES:
A.   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a Police Officer or official traffic
control device, no person shall:
   1.   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
      a.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street.
      b.   On a sidewalk.
      c.   Within an intersection.
      d.   On a crosswalk.
      e.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless a different length is indicated by signs or markings.
      f.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
      g.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or within
a highway tunnel.
      h.   On any railroad tracks. A violation of this subsection shall result
in a mandatory fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) or fifty (50) hours of
community service.
      i.   On any controlled access highway.
      j.   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers.
      k.   In a public parking area if the vehicle does not display a current
annual registration sticker or current temporary permit pending registration.
      l.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   2.   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except momentarily to
pick up or discharge passengers:
      a.   In front of a public or private driveway.
      b.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
      c.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
      d.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing signal,
stop sign, yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a
roadway.
      e.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any Fire
Station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any Fire Station
within seventy five feet (75') of such entrance (when properly sign-posted).
      f.   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
   3.   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers:
      a.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing.
      b.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
B.   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
C.   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be subject to a
fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (1945 Code § 16-13; amd. 2017 Code)
6-2-3: TRUCK PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
No person operating a motor vehicle in excess of twelve thousand (12,000)
pounds or with more than six (6) tires in contact with the ground or road
surface shall stand or park such vehicle upon any street where the primary use
of the structures fronting upon said street is for residential purposes, except
for the purpose of making a delivery or pick up of merchandise or material, in
which event, such standing or parking shall be permitted for a period not to
exceed one (1) hour; provided, however, that trucks engaged in the transporting
of household possessions of persons moving into or out of a dwelling unit shall
be permitted to park or stand said truck in front of the residence of a person
so moving for a period not to exceed the duration of moving said possessions.
Anyone in violation of this section shall be fined two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) for the first offense and seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each offense thereafter. Each day a violation of this section continues shall
be considered a separate offense. (Ord. 589-08, 4-7-2008; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Traffic Schedules Adopted
6-3-1: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES ADOPTED:
Unless otherwise provided in this title, the ordinances of the Village
establishing driving restrictions and prohibitions on specific streets in the
Village are hereby adopted by reference as if set out at length herein. Copies
of said ordinances are on file in the Office of the Village Clerk for public
use and inspection. (2017 Code)
CHAPTER 4
NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: Operation On Streets And Alleys
6-4-3: Permitted Crossing
6-4-4: Required Equipment
6-4-5: Lights
6-4-6: Required Seating; Passengers
6-4-7: Age Of Operator, License
6-4-8: Speed Limit
6-4-9: Ordinance And Vehicle Code Obeyance
6-4-10: Village License; Annual Fee
6-4-11: Mandatory Insurance
6-4-12: Release Of Liability
6-4-13: License Revocation
6-4-14: Violations; Punishment
6-4-1:    DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning.
 
NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLE: Shall mean a motor vehicle not specifically designed to be
                     used on a public highway, including:
                     A. An All-Terrain Vehicle, as that term is defined in
                    section 1-101.8 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, provided,
                     however, that this shall not include what is commonly
                     known as three-wheelers or four-wheelers;
                    B. A Golf Cart, as that term is defined in section 1-123.9
                     of the Illinois Vehicle Code; or,
                    C. A Recreational Off-Highway Vehicle, as that term is
                     defined in section 1-168.8 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
 
Anything contained in this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, for
purposes of this chapter, the term "Non-Highway Vehicle" shall not include an
Off-Highway Motorcycle, as that term is defined in section 1-153.1 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code. (Ord. 914-2018, 9-5-2018; amd. Ord. 935-2019, 2-18-2019;
Ord. 977-2019, 9-23-2019)
6-4-2:    OPERATION ON STREETS AND ALLEYS:
A.   Non-highway vehicles may be operated on those streets and alleys under the
jurisdiction and control of the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, where the
posted speed limit is thirty five (35) miles per hour or less, subject to the
requirements and regulations of this chapter.
B.   Except as provided in section
 6-4-3 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful to operate a non-highway vehicle
on:
   1.   Illinois Route 33; and,
   2.   Main Street.
C.   Non-highway vehicles shall be operated in the same direction as traffic.
D.   It shall be unlawful to operate a non-highway vehicle on any sidewalks or
other locations within the corporate limits of the Village of Dieterich,
Illinois, except as permitted by this chapter. (Ord. 914-2018, 9-5-2018)
6-4-3: PERMITTED CROSSING:
A.   Non-highway vehicles shall be permitted to make a direct crossing on U.S.
Route 33 (Center Street), but only while traveling on either Pine Street or
Loda Street; and,
B.   Non-highway vehicles shall be permitted to make a direct crossing on Main
Street, but only while traveling on Elm Street or Church Street. (Ord. 935-
2019, 2-18-2019)
December 2019
6-4-4: REQUIRED EQUIPMENT:
No non-highway vehicle shall be operated on any street or roadway under the
jurisdiction and control of the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, unless non-
highway vehicle is equipped with the following equipment, which must be kept in
good working condition at all times:
A.   Brakes;
B.   Steering apparatus;
C.   Tires;
D.   A rear view mirror;
E.   A red reflectorized warning device on the front and rear of the non-
highway vehicle;
F.   A slow moving emblem as required by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-
709 attached to the rear of the non-highway vehicle;
G.   A head light that emits white light visible from at least five hundred
feet (500') to the front of the non-highway vehicle;
H.   A tail lamp that emits red light visible from at least one hundred feet
(100') from the rear of the non-highway vehicle;
I.   Brake lights on the rear of the non-highway vehicle; and,
J.   Turn signals on the front and rear of the non-highway vehicle. (Ord. 914-
2018, 9-5-2018)
6-4-5: LIGHTS:
No non-highway vehicle shall be operated on the streets and alleys under the
jurisdiction and control of the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, unless such
non-highway vehicle has its head lights and tail lights illuminated at all
times. (Ord. 914-2018, 9-5-2018)
6-4-6: REQUIRED SEATING; PASSENGERS:
A non-highway vehicle may transport only the number of passengers for which the
specific non-highway vehicle was designed. Every passenger shall sit in a seat
that was installed by the manufacturer of the non-highway vehicle. It shall be
unlawful for the operator/driver of the non-highway vehicle to transport
passengers unless each passenger is in a seat. The operator/driver of the non-
highway vehicle shall not transport anyone who is sitting on the lap of a
passenger, or in any other location except in a seat. (Ord. 914-2018, 9-5-2018)
6-4-7: AGE OF OPERATOR, LICENSE:
No person shall operate a non-highway vehicle on the streets and alleys under
the jurisdiction and control of the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, unless such
operator is at least sixteen (16) years of age and has a valid driver's
license. (Ord. 914-2018, 9-5-2018)
6-4-8: SPEED LIMIT:
No person shall operate a non-highway vehicle on the streets and alleys under
the jurisdiction and control of the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, in excess
of twenty (20) miles per hour. (Ord. 914-2018, 9-5-2018)
6-4-9: ORDINANCE AND VEHICLE CODE OBEYANCE:
During the operation of a non-highway vehicle on any street under the
jurisdiction and control of the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, the operator of
such non-highway vehicle shall obey all applicable rules, regulations, and
ordinances of the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, all applicable provisions of
this Code, and the provisions of the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-100, et seq., as amended from time to time. (Ord. 914-
2018, 9-5-2018)
6-4-10: VILLAGE LICENSE; ANNUAL FEE:
No Non-Highway Vehicle shall be operated on the streets and alleys under the
jurisdiction and control of the Village of Dieterich, unless said Non-Highway
Vehicle is first licensed by the Village of Dieterich, Illinois. A person
desiring to operate a Non-Highway Vehicle on the streets and alleys under the
jurisdiction and control of the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, shall make
application for a Non-Highway Vehicle license with the Village Clerk of the
Village of Dieterich, Illinois, or his/her designee, on forms provided by the
Village. The license, if issued, shall be valid until December 31 of the same
calendar year of issuance. Thereafter, upon renewal, a license shall be valid
for a period of one year from January 1 in the year of renewal to December 31
of the same calendar year. Prior to the issuance and/or renewal of a Non-
Highway Vehicle license pursuant to this Ordinance, any person applying for a
Non-Highway Vehicle license pursuant to this Ordinance shall pay an annual fee
of $50.00 to the Village Clerk of the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, provided,
however, that if a person applies for an initial license after October 1, the
annual fee shall be reduced to $30.00. Prior to the issuance and/or renewal of
a Non-Highway Vehicle license, an applicant shall also present the Non-Highway
Vehicle to the Village Clerk of the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, or his/her
designee, for an inspection to determine whether the Non-Highway Vehicle
complies with the provisions of this Ordinance and may be operated on the
streets and alleys under the jurisdiction and control of the Village of
Dieterich, Illinois. If the Village Clerk of the Village of Dieterich,
Illinois, or his/her designee determines that the applicant and the Non-Highway
Vehicle comply with the provisions of this Ordinance, then the Village Clerk,
or his/her designee shall issue a license to the applicant. The license shall
be in that form as attached to the ordinance codified herein as Exhibit A and
on file in the Village. (Ord. 990-2019, 11-19-2019)
6-4-11: MANDATORY INSURANCE:
No person shall operate a non-highway vehicle on the streets and alleys under
the jurisdiction and control of the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, unless the
non-highway vehicle is covered by a liability insurance policy as required
under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/7-601. Every operator of a non-highway
vehicle, shall carry with the non-highway vehicle evidence of insurance as
required by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/7-602. (Ord. 914-2018, 9-5-2018)
6-4-12: RELEASE OF LIABILITY:
No person shall operate a non-highway vehicle on the streets and alleys under
the jurisdiction and control of the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, unless that
person has executed an Unconditional and Full General Release of Liability,
Waiver, Discharge, and Covenant Not to Sue and filed the same with the Village
Clerk of the Village of Dieterich, Illinois. The Unconditional and Full General
Release of Liability, Waiver, Discharge, and Covenant Not to Sue shall be in
that form as exhibit B on file in the Village. (Ord. 914-2018, 9-5-2018)
6-4-13: LICENSE REVOCATION:
A.   The license issued pursuant to section
6-4-10 of this chapter may be revoked by Village Clerk of the Village of
Dieterich, Illinois, or his/her designee, if:
   1.   There is any material misrepresentation made by the applicant on the
application;
   2.   The liability insurance required by section
6-4-11 of this chapter is no longer in full force and effect;
   3.   There is evidence, as determined in the sole discretion of the Village
Clerk of the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, or his/her designee, that the
permit holder can no longer safely operate the non-highway vehicle; or,
   4.   There has been a violation of any rules, regulations, and ordinances of
the Village of Dieterich, any applicable provisions of this Code, or any
provision of the Illinois Vehicle Code by the license holder.
B.   The Village Clerk of the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, or his/her
designee, shall issue a notice of revocation of a license in writing and either
hand deliver the notice to the permit holder, or send the notice by certified
mail, return receipt required, to the license holder at the address on the
application. The revocation of the license shall be effective immediately after
personal service, or on the third day after the postmark of the certified mail.
In the event of revocation of a license, the license holder shall not be
entitled to the return of any portion of the annual fee. (Ord. 914-2018, 9-5-
2018)
6-4-14: VIOLATIONS; PUNISHMENT:
A.   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or who aids or abets
the violation of any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a petty
offense punishable by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). In addition to any fine, the
Village may seek injunctive and declaratory relief directing the violator(s) to
cure the violation, and the Village may revoke any license authorized and
issued pursuant to this chapter.
B.   A separate offense shall be deemed to be committed on each day during or
on which a violation of any provision of this chapter occurs or continues.
C.   Any second or subsequent offense of any provision of this chapter shall
result in the revocation of the non-highway vehicle license for a period of not
less than three (3) nor more than five (5) years. (Ord. 914-2018, 9-5-2018)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Supervision
7-1-2: Excavations
7-1-3: Culverts
7-1-4: Encroachments And Obstructions
7-1-5: Moving Buildings
7-1-6: Driving On Streets Under Construction Or Improvement
7-1-7: Use Of Vehicles With Lugs Or Attachments
7-1-8: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
7-1-9: Street Trees
7-1-10: Penalty
7-1-1: SUPERVISION:
The general supervision of the streets, alleys and public sidewalks of the
Village shall be with the person responsible for Village maintenance, under
supervision of the Village Board of Trustees and its Committee on Streets and
Alleys. (1945 Code § 16-1; amd. 2017 Code)
7-1-2: EXCAVATIONS:
A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any excavation in any street
or alley without first obtaining a permit from the Village Clerk so to do. The
person obtaining the permit shall then diligently prosecute any necessary work
of excavation and, upon its completion, restore said street or alley to at
least as good a condition as it was prior to such excavation being made, at his
expense.
B.   No person shall wilfully dig up, excavate, or injure or deface any street
or sidewalk upon the streets or alleys of the Village. (1945 Code § 16-7; amd.
2017 Code)
7-1-3: CULVERTS:
A.   Culverts Required: The public health and safety requires that tubes at
ditch crossings at entrances to lots or tracts located within the Village be
installed under the supervision of the Village.
B.   Application For Permit: Lot owners shall make application to the Village
Clerk for permission to install a tube or culvert at driveway entrances to a
lot.
C.   Installation:
   1.   Lot or tract owners shall pay the cost of the tube and the cost of
installing the same.
   2.   Installation of said tube and crossing shall be made under the
direction and supervision of the proper Village officials.
D.   Maintenance By Village: The tube and entrance crossing shall, after
installation, be maintained by the Village. (Ord. 302, 8-3-1970)
7-1-4: ENCROACHMENTS AND OBSTRUCTIONS:
A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or cause to be erected any
building or part thereof within the limits of any public street or alley, or to
fence off or enclose the same, or deny its free and full use to the public. Any
person violating this subsection shall be subject to a fine as provided in
section
7-1-10 of this chapter for each day he shall permit his encroachment on such
street or alley to remain, after receiving notice from any Village officer to
remove the same. (1945 Code § 16-2; amd. 2017 Code)
B.   While a building adjacent to the street or alley is in the course of
construction or repair, tools and materials necessary in such work may be
placed on the adjacent street or alley on obtaining a written permit from the
Village Clerk so to do. But no more than one-third (1/3) of the street or alley
shall be so obstructed, and in no event shall such obstruction be permitted to
remain longer than is necessary for the diligent prosecution of such work, and
if such obstruction is made without a permit or in violation hereof, the
offender shall be subject to a penalty as provided in section
 7-1-10 of this chapter. (1945 Code § 16-5; amd. 2017 Code)
C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or leave any obstruction in
any public street which may interfere with its free use by the public. Any
person violating this subsection shall be subject to a fine as provided in
section
7-1-10 of this chapter for each day he permits such obstruction to remain,
after being notified by any Village officer to remove the same. (1945 Code §
16-3; amd. 2017 Code)
7-1-5: MOVING BUILDINGS:
No person shall move or cause to be moved through and upon the streets or
alleys of the Village, any building or structure without first obtaining from
the Village Clerk a permit so to do. No such permit shall be construed to
permit an unreasonable or unnecessary obstruction of the street or alley, nor
be in force for a time longer than is necessary to diligently complete such
moving. (1945 Code § 16-6; amd. 2017 Code)
7-1-6: DRIVING ON STREETS UNDER CONSTRUCTION OR IMPROVEMENT:
No vehicle shall be driven on any street while the same is in process of being
oiled, or when construction or improvement work is in progress thereon, and
when the Village officers have, by appropriate signs or barricades, indicated
the temporary closing of said street to traffic. (1945 Code § 16-11; amd. 2017
Code)
7-1-7: USE OF VEHICLES WITH LUGS OR ATTACHMENTS:
No person shall drive any steam engine, tractor or similar vehicle with lugs or
attachments on the wheel liable to damage the street surface on any paved,
graveled, oiled or hard surfaced streets of the Village, unless said vehicle is
equipped with protective devices to prevent damage to the streets, or unless
the driver planks the street or protects the street from damage. (1945 Code §
16-10; amd. 2017 Code)
7-1-8: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
A.   Deposit Of Rubbish Or Trash: It shall be unlawful for any person to throw,
place or deposit any filth, rubbish or trash upon any of the public streets or
alleys of the Village. (1945 Code § 16-4; amd. 2017 Code)
B.   Obstructing Ditches And Drains: It shall be unlawful for any person to
fill up or obstruct or injure or destroy any ditches, sewers or drains of the
Village. (1945 Code § 16-8; amd. 2017 Code)
C.   Riding Or Driving On Sidewalks: It shall be unlawful to ride, drive or
propel any automobiles, motorcycles, side by sides, four-wheelers (except for
snow removal), three- wheelers, golf carts or similar vehicles or conveyances
upon the public sidewalks in the Village. (1945 Code § 16-9; amd. 2017 Code)
7-1-9: STREET TREES:
No person shall plant any tree, bush or shrub on any street or alley, nor cut
or remove any such tree, bush or plant from any public street or alley, without
first obtaining a permit from the Village Clerk so to do. No such permit shall
be issued where such planting would obstruct the usual use of any street, alley
or sidewalk. (1945 Code § 16-16; amd. 2017 Code)
7-1-10: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a
penalty of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (2017 Code)
CHAPTER 2
CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES WITHIN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
SECTION:
7-2-1: Short Title
7-2-2: Purpose; Intent; Scope; Interpretation
7-2-3: Definitions
7-2-4: Annual Registration Required
7-2-5: Permit Requirements
7-2-6: Insurance; Indemnity; Security
7-2-7: Change In Ownership, Identity Or Legal Status
7-2-8: General Construction Standards
7-2-9: Traffic Control
7-2-10: Location Of Facilities
7-2-11: Construction Methods And Materials
7-2-12: Vegetation Control
7-2-13: Removal, Relocation Or Modifications Of Utility Facilities
7-2-14: Cleanup And Restoration
7-2-15: Maintenance And Repairs
7-2-16: Work To Be Timely
7-2-17: Damage To Water Or Sewer Lines Or Lateral Pipes
7-2-18: Variances
7-2-19: Enforcement And Penalties
7-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known, may be cited, and is hereafter designated as the
VILLAGE OF DIETERICH STANDARDS FOR CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE OF
UTILITY FACILITIES WITHIN PUBLIC WAYS ORDINANCE. (Ord. 775-14, 10-6-2014)
7-2-2: PURPOSE; INTENT; SCOPE; INTERPRETATION:
A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards and
procedures for the construction, repair and maintenance of facilities on public
ways within the corporate limits of the Village which shall provide public
benefit consistent with the preservation of the integrity, safe usage and
visual quality of the public ways located within the corporate limits of the
Village.
B.   Intent: By enacting this chapter, the Village intends to exercise its
authority over the public ways within the corporate limits of the Village and
particularly the use of public ways and public property by utility providers by
establishing uniform standards and procedures to address issues presented by
the demand for access to and use of public ways in the Village including, but
not limited to:
   1.   Prevent interference with the use of streets, highways, sidewalks,
alleys, parkways and other public ways and places;
   2.   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions which are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
   3.   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the Village
utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in public ways or public
property;
   4.   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees, from
the installation of facilities;
   5.   Protect against increased stormwater run-off due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
   6.   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
   7.   Preserve open space, particularly within the residential areas of the
Village;
   8.   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in public
ways; and
   9.   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to facilities locations.
C.   Scope: This chapter shall apply to all facilities on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across or within public ways within the corporate limits of the
Village. A facility lawfully established and operated by a utility provider
prior to the effective date hereof may continue to be maintained, repaired and
operated by said utility provider presently constructed and located, so long as
said maintenance, repair and operation is in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter, as amended from time to time, and as otherwise provided in any
applicable franchise, license, permit or similar agreement.
D.   Franchises, Licenses Or Similar Agreements:
   1.   The Village, in its sole discretion and as limited by law, may require
utility providers to enter into a franchise agreement, license or similar
agreement for the privilege of locating their facilities on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across or within the Village public ways. Utility providers
that are not required by law to enter into such an agreement may request the
Village enter into such an agreement. In such an agreement, the Village may
provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with this chapter.
   2.   In the event a utility provider other than a telecommunications
provider has a franchise, license or similar agreement with the Village, such
franchise, license or similar agreement shall govern and control during the
term of such agreement and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   3.   In the event of any conflict with, or inconsistency among, the
provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any franchise, license or
similar agreement between the Village and any telecommunications provider, the
provisions of such franchise, license or similar agreement shall govern and
control during the term of such agreement and any lawful renewal or extension
thereof.
E.   Conflicting Provisions:
   1.   This chapter supersedes all ordinances or parts of ordinances adopted
prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
   2.   In the event applicable Federal laws, State laws, or regulations
conflict with the requirements of this chapter, the utility provider shall
comply with the requirements of this chapter to the maximum extent possible
without violating Federal laws, State laws or regulations. (Ord. 775-14, 10-6-
2014)
7-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning. Any term not defined in this section shall have
the meaning ascribed thereto in 92 Illinois Administrative Code section 530.30,
unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
   AASHTO: The American Association of State Highway and Transportation
Officials.
   ANSI: The American National Standards Institute.
   ASTM: The American Society for Testing and Materials.
   APPLICANT: The person applying for a permit under this chapter.
   BACKFILL: The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a
trench or pit.
   BORE OR BORING: To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the
insertion of a pipe or electrical conductor.
   CABLE OPERATOR: Any person or group of persons who:
   A.   Provides cable service over a cable system and directly, or through one
(1) or more affiliates, owns a significant interest in such cable system; or
   B.   Otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any arrangement, the
management and operation of such a cable system.
   CABLE SERVICE:
   A.   The one way transmission to subscribers of: 1) video programming; or 2)
other programming service; and
   B.   Subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the selection or
use of such video programming or other programming service.
   CABLE SYSTEM: A utility provider's facility, consisting of a set of closed-
transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control
equipment that is designed to provide cable service and/or video service, which
includes video programming and which is provided to multiple subscribers within
the service area.
   CARRIER PIPE: The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be
transported.
   CASING: The structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
   CASING PIPE: A pipe used for bores over six inches (6") in diameter, which
carries the pipe, conduit, wires, or cables being constructed. Casing pipe for
jack and auger boring shall be steel. Casing pipe for other bores may be HDPE,
restrained joint PVC, or other materials as approved by the Village Engineer.
   CLEAR ZONE: The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a non- recoverable slope, and a clear run-out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO Roadside Design
Guide.
   COATING: The protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
   CONDUCTOR: A wire carrying electrical current.
   CONDUIT: A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
   CONSTRUCTION OR CONSTRUCT: The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
   COVER: The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
   CROSSING FACILITY: A facility that crosses one (1) or more public way lines
of a public way.
   DISRUPT THE PUBLIC WAY: Any work that obstructs the public way or causes a
material adverse effect on the use of the public way for its intended use. Such
work may include, but is not limited to, the following: excavating or other
cutting; placement (whether temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment,
devices, or structures; damage to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of
the soil, but does not include the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner
that does not materially obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
   DRILLING FLUID/MUD: A mixture of water and usually bentonite and/or polymer
continuously pumped to a rotating cutting head or rotating backreamer to
facilitate cutting, reduce required torque, facilitate the removal of cuttings,
stabilize the borehole, cool the head, and/or lubricate the installation of a
boring. In suitable soil conditions, the Village Engineer may authorize, in
his/her sole discretion, the use of water alone.
   EMERGENCY: Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety
of the public using or in the vicinity of the public way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
   ENCASEMENT: Any provision of a protective casing.
   EQUIPMENT: Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used
to facilitate construction of facilities.
   EXCAVATION OR EXCAVATING: The making of a hole or cavity by removing
material, or laying bare by digging.
   EXTRA HEAVY PIPE: Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
   FACILITY: Any and all structures, devices, objects, and materials
(including, but not limited to, cables, cabinets, ducts, conduits, converters,
equipment, drains, handholds, manholes, pipes, pipelines, splice boxes, surface
location markers, track and rails, tunnels, utilities, vaults, wires, ducts,
fiber optic cable, antennas, boxes, equipment enclosures, pedestals, poles,
grates, covers, and appurtenances thereto) located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within public ways under this chapter. For purposes of
this chapter, the term "facility" shall not include any facility owned or
operated by the Village of Dieterich, Illinois.
   FREESTANDING FACILITY: A facility that is not a crossing facility or a
parallel facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
   FRONTAGE ROAD: A roadway, usually a parallel roadway, providing access to
land adjacent to the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a
highway.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
Village Engineer to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to the life, health
or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance of the
environment including, but not limited to, explosives, radioactive materials,
petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology (biological)
agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be hazardous or
toxic under any Federal or State law, statute or regulation.
   HIGHWAY: A specific type of public way used for vehicular traffic including
rural or urban roads or streets. "Highway" includes all highway land and
improvements, including roadways, frontage road, ditches and embankments,
bridges, drainage structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and
appurtenances necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
   HIGHWAY CODE: The Illinois Highway Code, 605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-
101 et seq., as amended from time to time.
   HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable service or video service from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois
Cable and Video Competition Law, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
   HORIZONTAL DIRECTIONAL BORING OR DRILLING: A method of trenchless technology
in which a steerable, small diameter (less than 6 inches in diameter) is
drilled from either a pit or the ground surface. For pipes, conduits, wires, or
cables less than six inches (6") in diameter, the pilot bore is pulled back
with or without a rotating backreamer and the pipe, conduit, wire, or cable
attached. For multiple pipes, conduits, wires, or cable or bores greater than
six inches (6") in diameter, a casing pipe shall be pulled back with the
backreamer.
   ICC: The Illinois Commerce Commission.
   IDOT: The Illinois Department of Transportation.
   JULIE: The Joint Utility Locating Information for Excavators Utility
Notification Program.
   JACK AND AUGER BORING: A method of trenchless technology in which a steel
casing pipe is jacked from a bore pit using hydraulic cylinders (jacks),
mechanical jacks, or air jacks with the soil removed from inside the casing
pipe by means of a rotating cutting head with an auger attached to transport
the soil to the rear of the casing pipe where it is removed from the bore pit.
The rotating cutting edge in jack and auger boring shall not be extended so as
to be completely past the leading edge of the casing pipe. A device may be
attached to the leading edge of the casing pipe to provide limited steering
capabilities.
   JACKING: The pushing of a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical
means without boring or augering.
   JETTING: Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to
create a cavity ahead of the pipe.
   JOINT USE: The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two (2) or
more utility providers.
   MAJOR INTERSECTION: The intersection of two (2) or more major arterial
highways.
   OCCUPANCY: The presence of facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under,
across or within a public way.
   PARALLEL FACILITY: A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to
the centerline of a public way.
   PARKWAY: Any portion of a public way not improved by a street or sidewalk.
   PAVEMENT CUT: The removal of an area of pavement for access to a facility or
for the construction of a facility.
   PERMITTEE: That person to which a permit has been issued pursuant to
subsections
7-2-5A, B, C and D of this chapter.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, organization, corporation,
limited liability company, association, proprietorship, governmental entity, or
other legal entity. The term shall also include an executor, administrator,
trustee, receiver or other representative appointed according to law.
   PETROLEUM PRODUCTS: Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid petroleum
products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates, propane, butane,
or coal-slurry.
   PIPE BURSTING/RAMMING: A method of trenchless technology in which a new pipe
is mechanically forced through the ground, or an existing pipe bursting or
breaking and forcing pieces of the old pipe into the adjacent ground.
   PRACTICABLE: That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than
that which is simply convenient.
   PRESSURE: The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
   PROMPTLY: That which is done within a period of time specified by the
Village of Dieterich, Illinois. If no time period is specified, the period
shall be thirty (30) calendar days.
   PUBLIC ENTITY: A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at the local, State or Federal level.
   PUBLIC WAYS OR PUBLIC WAY: The surface of, and the space above and below,
any public street, Highway, boulevard, alley, avenue, Roadway, sidewalk,
Parkway, public parking area, bridge, lane, public way, drive, circle, or other
public right-of-way, including, but not limited to, public utility easements,
dedicated utility strips, or rights-of-way dedicated for compatible use now or
hereafter held by the Village of Dieterich, Illinois. The term “Public Ways or
Public Way” shall not include any real or personal property owned by the
Village of Dieterich, Illinois, that is not specifically described in the
previous two sentences and shall not include buildings, fixtures and other
structures or improvements owned by the Village of Dieterich, Illinois,
regardless of whether they are situated in the Public Way.
   RESTORATION: The removal of the facility and/or repair of a public way,
highway, roadway, or other area disrupted by the construction of a facility.
   ROADWAY: That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for its use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SECURITY FUND: That amount of security required pursuant to subsection
7-2-6C of this chapter.
   SHOULDER: A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS: Messages or information transmitted through use of
local, toll and wide area telephone service, channel services, telegraph
services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange service, private line
services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile telecommunications services,
stationary two-way radio, paging service and any other form of mobile or
portable one-way or two-way communications, and any other transmission of
messages or information by electronic or similar means, between or among points
by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio, satellite, or similar
facilities. "Private line" means a dedicated non-traffic sensitive service for
a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive or priority use of a
communications channel, or a group of such channels, from one (1) or more
specified locations to one (1) or more other specified locations.
"Telecommunications" shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the information for purposes other than transmission. "Telecommunications"
shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications
provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such provider
to the ultimate retail consumer, who originates or terminates the end-to-end
communications. "Telecommunications" shall not include the provision of cable
services through a cable system as defined in the Cable Communications Act of
1984 (47 USC section 521 and following), as now or hereafter amended, or cable
or other programming services subject to an open video system fee payable to
the Village through an open video system as defined in the rules of the Federal
Communications Commission (47 CFR section 76.1500 and following), as now or
hereafter amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in public ways used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER: Every person engaged in making sales of
telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
   TRENCH: A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
   TUNNELLING: A method of trenchless technology in which an opening beneath
the ground is excavated by various means but is not followed by the immediate
installation of pipe, conduit, wire, cable, or casing for pipe, conduit, wire,
and/or cable for other means of support to prevent cave-in or collapse.
   UTILITY PROVIDER: Any person including, but not limited to, a holder and/or
telecommunications provider, owning or operating any facility as defined in
this section, other than the Village of Dieterich, Illinois.
   VENT: A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
   VIDEO SERVICE: Video programming and video subscriber interaction, if any,
that is required for the selection or use of such video programming services,
and that is provided through facilities located at least in part in the public
way without regard to delivery technology, including internet protocol
technology. This definition does not include any video programming provided by
a commercial mobile service provider defined in subsection (d) of 47 USC 332 or
any video programming provided solely as part of and via service that enables
subscribers to access content, information, electronic mail, or other services
offered over the public internet.
   VILLAGE: The Village of Dieterich, Illinois.
   VILLAGE ENGINEER: The Engineer for the Village or his or her designee.
   WATER LINES: Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
   WET BORING: Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material. (Ord. 775-14, 10-
6-2014; amd. Ord. 982, 10-21-2019)
7-2-4: ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Every utility provider occupying public ways within the Village shall register
on January 1 of each year with the Village Clerk, providing the utility
provider's name, address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers,
the name of one (1) or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the
utility provider in connection with emergencies involving the utility provider
facilities in the public way and a twenty four (24) hour telephone number for
each such person, and evidence as required in subsection
7-2-6A of this chapter. (Ord. 775-14, 10-6-2014)
7-2-5: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Permit Required; Exemptions: No person shall construct any facility on,
over, above, along, upon, under, across or within any Village public way which:
1) changes the location of the facility; 2) adds a new facility; 3) disrupts
the public way; or 4) materially increases the amount of area or space occupied
by the facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the
public way, without first filing an application with the Village Clerk and
obtaining a permit from the Village therefor, except as otherwise provided in
this chapter. No permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of
service connections to customer premises where there will be no disruption of
the public way.
B.   Application For Permit:
   1.   All applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall be filed on
a form provided by the Village, and shall be filed in such number of duplicate
copies as the Village may designate. The applicant may designate those portions
of its application materials it reasonably believes contain proprietary or
confidential information as "proprietary" or "confidential" by clearly marking
each page of such materials accordingly.
   2.   The application shall be made by the utility provider, or its duly
authorized representative, and shall contain, at minimum, the following:
      a.   The utility provider's name and address and telephone and telecopy
numbers;
      b.   The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility
provider, its telephone and telecopy numbers, e-mail address and its interest
in the work;
      c.   The names, addresses, telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      d.   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      e.   Evidence that the utility provider has placed on file with the
Village the following items:
         (1)   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed by the utility provider consistent
with the Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, to prevent injury
or damage to persons or property and to minimize disruptions to efficient
pedestrian and vehicular traffic;
         (2)   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies and the intended response by the utility
provider. The intended response shall include notification to the Village and
shall promote protection of the safety and convenience of the public.
Compliance with ICC regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes
compliance with this section unless the Village finds that additional
information or assurances are needed;
      f.   Drawings, plans, and specifications showing the existing facilities
and work proposed, including the certification of an Illinois professional
engineer that such drawings, plans, and specifications comply with applicable
rules and regulations and are located within the surveyed public way(s);
      g.   Evidence that the applicant is a member of Joint Utility Locating
Information for Excavators (JULIE);
      h.   Evidence of insurance as required in subsection
7-2-6A of this chapter;
      i.   Evidence of posting of the Security Fund as required in subsection
7-2-6C of this chapter;
      j.   Any request for a variance from one (1) or more provisions of this
chapter pursuant to section
7-2-18 of this chapter; and
      k.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
Village.
   3.   In addition to the requirements of subsection B2 of this section, the
permit application shall include the following items, as applicable to the
specific utility provider subject to the permit application:
      a.   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable service, video service or natural gas
distribution system, evidence of any "Certificate of Public Convenience and
Necessity" or other regulatory authorization the applicant is required by law
to obtain, or evidence the applicant has elected to obtain, has been issued by
the ICC, IDOT, or other jurisdictional authority;
      b.   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
      c.   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies,
have been satisfied, and attach a copy of any permit required by the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency;
      d.   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Public Water Supplies have been satisfied, and attach a copy of any
permit required by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency; or
      e.   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or types
of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure and the design
standard to be followed.
   4.   Throughout the entire permit application review period and the
construction period authorized by the permit, any amendments to information
contained in a permit application shall be submitted by the utility provider in
writing to the Village within thirty (30) calendar days after the change
necessitating the amendment.
C.   Fee; Exemptions: Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be accompanied by a fee in the amount of one thousand five hundred dollars
($1,500.00). No application fee is required to be paid by any electricity
utility that is paying the municipal electricity infrastructure maintenance fee
pursuant to the Electricity Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Law, 35 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 645/5-1, et seq. (Ord. 775-14, 10-6-2014)
D.   Action On Applications:
   1.   Review Of Application; Grant Or Denial Of Permit: Completed permit
applications, containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the
Village Engineer within forty five (45) calendar days after filing. If the
application does not conform to the requirements of all applicable ordinances,
laws, rules and regulations, the Village Engineer shall reject such application
in writing, stating the reasons therefor. Furthermore, if the Village Engineer
requests additional information and/or documentation as part of the permit
application, and the applicant fails to provide said information and/or
documentation in a timely manner, said permit application shall be rejected and
said applicant shall be required to resubmit a new permit application. If the
Village Engineer is satisfied the proposed work conforms to the requirements of
this chapter and all other applicable ordinances, laws, rules and regulations,
the Village Clerk shall issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable. In all
instances, it shall be the duty of the applicant to demonstrate, to the
satisfaction of the Village Clerk, in his/her sole discretion, that the
construction proposed under the application shall be in full compliance with
the requirements of this chapter.
   2.   Additional Review Requirements Of Telecommunications Retailers'
Applications:
      a.   Pursuant to section 4 of the Telephone Company Act, 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 65/4, a telecommunications retailer shall provide written
notice to the Village that it intends to commence work governed by this chapter
for facilities for the provision of telecommunications services. Such written
notice shall consist of plans, specifications and other documentation
sufficient to demonstrate the purpose and intent of the facilities, and shall
be provided by the telecommunications retailer to the Village not less than ten
(10) calendar days prior to the commencement of work requiring no excavation
and not less than thirty (30) calendar days prior to the commencement of work
requiring excavation. The Village Engineer shall specify the portion of the
public way upon which the facility may be placed, used and constructed.
      b.   In the event the Village Engineer fails to provide such
specification of location to the telecommunications retailer within either: 1)
ten (10) calendar days after service of notice to the Village by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for
new construction; or 2) thirty (30) calendar days after service of notice by
the telecommunications retailer in the case of work involving excavation for
new construction, the telecommunications retailer may commence work without
obtaining a permit under this chapter; provided, however, that the
telecommunications retailer shall provide written notice to the Village Clerk
of the date in which the telecommunications retailer will commence work and
provide evidence of the payment of the application fee as required in
subsection C of this section, posting of the Security Fund as required in
subsection
7-2-6C of this chapter, and evidence of insurance as required in subsection
7-2-6A of this chapter.
      c.   Upon the provision of such specification by the Village where a
permit is required for work pursuant to section
7-2-8 of this chapter, the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the
Village an application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of subsection A of this
section.
   3.   Additional Review Of Applications Of Holders Of State Authorization
Under The Cable And Video Competition Law Of 2007: Applications by a utility
provider that is a holder of a State issued authorization under the Cable and
Video Competition Law of 2007 shall be deemed granted forty five (45) days
after submission to the Village unless otherwise acted upon by the Village,
provided the holder has complied with all applicable Village ordinances and
regulations and has provided evidence of the payment of the application fee as
required in subsection C of this section, posting of the Security Fund as
required in subsection
7-2-6C of this chapter, and evidence of insurance as required in subsection
7-2-6A of this chapter.
E.   Effect Of Permit:
   1.   Authority Granted: A permit from the Village authorizes a permittee to
undertake only certain activities in accordance with this chapter on the public
ways within the Village, and does not create a property right or grant
authority to the permittee to impinge upon the rights of others who may have an
interest in the public way.
   2.   Term Of Permit: No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for
a period longer than six (6) months, unless construction has begun within that
period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, any permit issued under this chapter shall expire two (2) years
after issuance.
   3.   Pre-Construction Meeting Required: No construction shall begin pursuant
to a permit issued under this chapter prior to attendance by the permittee and
all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any work under the
permit at a pre-construction meeting. The pre-construction meeting shall be
held at a date, time and place designated by the Village, with such Village
representatives in attendance as the Village Clerk deems necessary. The meeting
shall be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit and reviewing
special considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur including,
but not limited to, presence or absence of other utility facilities in the area
and their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other utilities, use of
public ways by the public during construction and ingress and egress by
adjacent property owners, and methods of construction.
   4.   Compliance With Laws Required: The issuance of a permit under this
chapter by the Village does not excuse the permittee from complying with other
requirements of the Village and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations.
F.   Revised Permit Drawings: In the event the actual location of any
facilities deviate in any material respect from the locations identified in the
plans, drawings and specifications submitted with the permit application, the
permittee shall submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the Village within
ninety (90) calendar days after the completion of the permitted work. The
revised drawings or plans shall specifically identify where and how the
locations of the actual facilities deviate from the locations approved in the
permit. If any deviation from the permit also deviates from the requirements of
this chapter, it shall be treated as a request for variance in accordance with
section
7-2-18 of this chapter. If the Village denies the request for a variance, then
the permittee shall either remove the facility from the public way or modify
the facility so it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or plans
therefor. If the permittee fails to remove or modify the facility promptly, as
required by the Village, then the Village may remove said facility at the
permittee's expense.
G.   Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit:
   1.   Grounds: The Village may revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to
this chapter for one (1) or more of the following reasons:
      a.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting or materially incomplete
statements contained in the permit application;
      b.   Non-compliance with the requirements of this chapter or any other
applicable law;
      c.   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the public way presenting
a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety or welfare; or
      d.   Permittee's failure to construct facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   2.   Notice Requirements: The Village shall send written notice of its
intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this chapter stating
the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the alternatives
available to the permittee under this subsection G.
   3.   Options Of Permittee:
      a.   Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the Village, the permittee shall have the following options:
         (1)   Immediately provide the Village with evidence that no cause
exists for the revocation or suspension;
         (2)   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the Village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the Village within five (5) business days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation; or
         (3)   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across or within the public way and restore the public way
to the satisfaction of the Village, providing written proof of such removal to
the Village, within ten (10) calendar days, after receipt of the written notice
of revocation.
      b.   The Village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the
time periods provided in subsection G3a of this section.
   4.   Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the Village may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth in subsection G1 of
this section.
   5.   Failure Or Refusal Of Permittee To Comply: If the permittee fails to
comply with the provisions of subsection G3a of this section, the Village or
its designee may, at its option: a) correct the deficiencies; b) upon not less
than twenty (20) calendar days' written notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment; or c) after not less than thirty (30) calendar
days' written notice to the permittee of failure to cure the non-compliance,
deem them abandoned and property of the Village. The permittee shall be liable
in all events to the Village for all costs and expenses associated with the
removal. (Ord. 775-14, 10-6-2014)
7-2-6: INSURANCE; INDEMNITY; SECURITY:
A.   Insurance Requirements:
   1.   Coverages And Limits:
      a.   Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license or similar
agreement, each utility provider occupying a public way or constructing any
facility in the public way shall secure and maintain the following liability
insurance policies insuring the utility provider as named insured and naming
the Village and its elected and appointed officers, officials, agents, and
employees as additional insureds, on a primary, non-contributory basis, on the
policies listed in subsections A1a(1) and A1a(2) of this section.
         (1)   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse and underground hazard (commonly referred to as
"X", "C", and "U" coverages) and products- completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
            (A)   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or
death to each person;
            (B)   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one (1) accident; and
            (C)   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability;
         (2)   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles
with a combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for
personal injury and property damage for each accident;
         (3)   Workers' compensation insurance with the prescribed statutory
limits; and
         (4)   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee and per accident.
      b.   If the utility provider is not providing such insurance to protect
contractors and subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and
subcontractors of the utility provider shall comply with the requirements of
this subsection A.
   2.   Excess Or Umbrella Policies: The coverages required by this section may
be in any combination of primary excess and umbrella policies. Any excess or
umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following-form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   3.   Copies Required: The utility provider shall provide copies of any of
the policies required by this subsection A to the Village within ten (10)
calendar days following receipt of a written request therefor from the Village.
   4.   Maintenance And Renewal Of Required Coverages:
      a.   The insurance policies required by this subsection A shall contain
the following endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor the
intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) calendar days after receipt
by the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, by registered mail or certified mail,
return receipt requested, of a written notice addressed to the Village Clerk of
the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, of such intent to cancel or not to renew.
      b.   Within ten (10) calendar days after receipt by the Village of said
notice, and in no event later than ten (10) calendar days prior to said
cancellation, the utility provider shall obtain and furnish to the Village
evidence of replacement insurance policies meeting the requirements of this
subsection A.
   5.   Self-Insurance: A utility provider may self-insure all or a portion of
the insurance coverage and limit requirements required by subsection A1a of
this section. A utility provider that self- insures is not required, to the
extent of such self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of
additional insured's under said subsection A1a of this section, or the
requirements of subsections A1b, A2 and A3 of this section. A utility provider
that elects to self-insure shall provide to the Village evidence sufficient to
demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the insurance coverage and
limit requirements required under subsection A1a of this section, such as
evidence that the utility provider is a "private self-insurer" under the
Illinois Workers' Compensation Act.
   6.   Effect Of Insurance And Self-Insurance On Utility's Liability: The
legal liability of the utility provider to the Village and any person for any
of the matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this subsection A shall not be limited by such insurance policies
or self- insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   7.   Insurance Companies: All insurance provided pursuant to this subsection
A shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the State of Illinois.
All insurance carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated A- or better
and of a Class Size X or higher by A.M. Best Company.
B.   Indemnification: By occupying or constructing facilities in public ways, a
utility provider shall be deemed to agree to indemnify, defend and hold
harmless the Village and its elected and appointed officials, officers,
employees, agents and representatives, from and against any and all injuries,
claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses, causes of action, liabilities,
settlement payments, costs, interest, awards and expenses, including reasonable
attorney fees and costs of suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or
in relation to the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility provider or its affiliates, officers,
employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors, as said conduct relates to
any action required or contemplated pursuant to this chapter, whether such acts
or omissions are authorized, allowed or prohibited by this chapter or by a
franchise, license or similar agreement; provided, however, the utility
provider's indemnity obligations hereunder shall not apply to any injuries,
claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses directly caused by the
wilful negligence or wilful misconduct by the Village and its officials,
officers, employees, agents or representatives.
C.   Security:
   1.   Purpose: The permittee shall establish a Security Fund in a form and in
an amount as set forth in this subsection C. The Security Fund shall be
continuously maintained in accordance with this subsection C at the permittee's
sole cost and expense until the completion of the work authorized under the
permit. The Security Fund shall serve as security for:
      a.   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements of
this chapter;
      b.   Any expenditure, damage or loss incurred by the Village due to the
permittee's failure to comply with any ordinances, rules, regulations, orders,
permits and other directives of the Village issued pursuant to this chapter;
and
      c.   The payment by the permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs or expenses the Village may pay or incur by reason of any action or non-
performance by the permittee in violation of this chapter including, but not
limited to, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform which the Village must perform itself or
have completed as a consequence of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the Village from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter or any other applicable law.
   2.   Form: The permittee shall provide the Security Fund to the Village in
the form, at the permittee's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the Village, or an unconditional irrevocable letter of credit in
a form acceptable to the Village. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided
pursuant to this subsection shall, at a minimum:
      a.   Provide it will not be canceled without prior written notice to the
Village and the permittee;
      b.   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the Village of any amounts covered thereby; and
      c.   Provide a location convenient to the Village and within the State of
Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   3.   Amount: The dollar amount of the Security Fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the public way to at least
as good a condition as existing prior to the construction under the permit, as
determined by the Village Engineer, in his/her sole discretion, and may also
include reasonable, directly related costs the Village estimates are likely to
be incurred if the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where the
construction of facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in
phases in multiple locations within the Village, with each phase consisting of
construction of facilities in one (1) location or a related group of locations
and where construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to
substantial completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the
Village Engineer may, in the exercise of his/her sole discretion, allow the
permittee to post a single amount of security which shall be applicable to each
individual phase of the construction allowed under the permit. The amount of
the Security Fund for individual phases of construction shall be equal to the
greatest amount which would have been required under the provisions of this
subsection for any single phase.
   4.   Withdrawals: The Village, upon fourteen (14) calendar days' advance
written notice clearly stating the reason for and its intention to exercise
withdrawal rights under this subsection, may withdraw an amount from the
Security Fund, provided the permittee has not reimbursed the Village for such
amount within the fourteen (14) calendar day notice period. Withdrawals may be
made if the permittee:
      a.   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      b.   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities which are due and
unpaid;
      c.   Fails to reimburse the Village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the Village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or non-performance by the permittee; or
      d.   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter which the Village
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount sufficient from the
Security Fund.
   5.   Replenishment: Within fourteen (14) calendar days after receipt of
written notice from the Village that any amount has been withdrawn from the
Security Fund, the permittee shall restore the Security Fund to the amount
specified in subsection C3 of this section.
   6.   Interest: The permittee may request any and all interest accrued on the
amount in the Security Fund be returned to the permittee by the Village upon
written request for said withdrawal to the Village, provided any such
withdrawal does not reduce the Security Fund below the minimum balance required
in subsection C3 of this section.
   7.   Closing And Return Of Security Fund: Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the Security Fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the Village for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the Security Fund, and any and all accrued interest thereon, shall become the
property of the Village to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
losses or damages incurred by the Village as a result of the revocation;
provided, that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be
refunded to the permittee.
   8.   Rights Not Limited: The rights reserved to the Village with respect to
the Security Fund are in addition to all other rights of the Village, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said Security Fund shall affect
any other right the Village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
Village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated. (Ord. 775-14, 10-6-
2014)
7-2-7: CHANGE IN OWNERSHIP, IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS:
A.   Notification Of Change: A utility provider shall provide written notice to
the Village not less than thirty (30) calendar days prior to the transfer of
ownership of any facility in the public way or change in identity or legal
status of the utility provider. The new owner of the utility or the facility
shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the former owner under
the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules and regulations,
including this chapter, with respect to the work and facilities in the public
way.
B.   Amended Permit: A new owner shall request any current permit be amended to
show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or amended permit
issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have accepted, and
agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit and this chapter,
including, but not limited to, the indemnification provisions contained in
subsection
7-2-6B of this chapter if the new owner uses the facility or allows it to
remain on the public way of the Village.
C.   Insurance And Bonding: All required insurance coverage or bonding must be
changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer. (Ord. 775-14, 10-6-
2014)
7-2-8: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
A.   Standards And Principles: All construction in the public way shall be
consistent and in accordance with the Village management of the Village right-
of-way, applicable ordinances, laws, rules and regulations, and, where
applicable, the principles and standards set forth in the following IDOT
publications, as amended from time to time:
   1.   Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction;
   2.   Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions;
   3.   Highway Design Manual;
   4.   Highway Standards Manual;
   5.   Standard Specifications for Traffic Control Items; (Ord. 775-14, 10-6-
2014)
   6.   Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (92 Ill. Adm. Code
part 546); (Ord. 775-14, 10-6-2014; amd. 2017 Code)
   7.   Flagger's Handbook; and
   8.   Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations.
B.   Interpretation Of Municipal Standards And Principles: If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the Village Engineer shall determine, in the exercise of his/her sole
discretion, in accordance with the Village management of the public ways, which
principles apply, and such decision shall be final. If requested, the Village
Engineer shall state which standard or principle will apply to the
construction, maintenance or operation of a facility in the future. (Ord. 775-
14, 10-6-2014)
7-2-9: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
A.   Minimum Requirements: The Village's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices, IDOT's Highway Standards Manual, and this chapter.
B.   Warning Signs, Protective Devices And Flaggers: The utility provider is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable Federal, State and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility provider's workers
when performing any work on the public way.
C.   Interference With Traffic: All work shall be phased and conducted in a
manner so there is minimal interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
D.   Notice When Access Is Blocked: At least forty eight (48) hours prior to
beginning work which will partially or completely block access to any
residence, business or institution, the utility provider shall provide written
notice to the Village as well as to the resident, business or institution of
the approximate beginning time and duration of such work; provided, however, in
cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to section
7-2-15 of this chapter, the utility provider shall provide such notice as is
reasonable and practicable under the circumstances.
E.   Compliance: The utility provider shall take immediate action to correct
any deficiencies in traffic protection requirements brought to the utility
provider's attention by the Village. (Ord. 775-14, 10-6-2014)
7-2-10: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
A.   General Requirements: In addition to location requirements applicable to
specific types of facilities, all facilities, regardless of type, shall be
subject to the general location requirements of this subsection.
   1.   No facilities shall be placed in any location if the Village Engineer
determines that the location will require the relocation or displacement of any
of the Village facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation or
maintenance of any of the Village facilities.
   2.   The proposed location shall cause only minimal interference with the
use of the public way and shall cause only minimal impact upon, and
interference with, the rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who
adjoin said public way.
   3.   No facility shall be placed in any location that in any way interferes
with the usual travel on such public way.
   4.   No facility shall be placed in any location so as to limit visibility
of or by users of the public way.
   5.   The proposed installation shall use the smallest suitable vaults,
boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals and/or cabinets then in use by the
facility owner, regardless of location, for the particular application.
B.   Parallel Facilities Located Within Highways.
   1.   Overhead Parallel Facilities. Subject to the regulations contained in
Paragraph F of this Section
7-2-10, an overhead Parallel Facility may be located within the Public Way
lines of a Highway, only if:
      a.   Lines are located as near as Practicable to the Public Way line and
as nearly parallel to the Public Way line as reasonable pole alignment will
permit;
      b.   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as Practicable from
the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (0.6 m) behind the face of the
curb, or two feet (0.6 m) behind any concrete or asphalt areas of the Public
Way (whichever is greater), where available;
      c.   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement edge
and/or gutter as Practicable with minimum distance of four feet (1.2 m) outside
the outer Shoulder line or gutter of the Roadway and are not within the Clear
Zone, or four feet (1.2 m) behind any concrete or asphalt areas of the Public
Way (whichever is greater);
      d.   No pole is located in the ditch line of a Highway; and,
      e.   Any ground-mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (0.3 m)
of the Public Way line or as near as possible to the Public Way line.
C.   Facilities Crossing Highways:
   1.   No Future Disruption: The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of the highways of
the Village may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as
encasement or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the
roadbed resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
   2.   Culverts Or Drainage Facilities: Crossing facilities shall not be
located in culverts, storm sewers, sanitary sewers, water lines, or drainage
facilities.
   3.   Ninety Degree Crossing Required: Crossing facilities shall cross at or
as near to a ninety degree (90°) angle to the centerline as possible.
   4.   Overhead Power Or Communication Facility: An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
      a.   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC's rules
entitled "Construction of Electric Power and Communication Lines" (83 Ill. Adm.
Code 305);
      b.   Poles are located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the public way
line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
      c.   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
   5.   Underground Power Or Communication Facility: An underground power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
      a.   The design materials and construction methods will provide maximum
maintenance-free service life; and
      b.   Capacity for the utility provider's foreseeable future expansion
needs is provided in the initial installation.
   6.   Markers: The Village may require the utility provider to provide a
marker at each public way line where an underground facility other than a power
or communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the
type of facility, the utility provider's name, and an emergency phone number.
Markers may also be eliminated as provided in current Federal regulations found
at 49 CFR section 192.707 (1989).
D.   Location Within Particular Public Way: The Village may require, in its
sole discretion, utility providers to locate facilities within particular
public ways that are not highways, rather than within particular highways.
E.   Freestanding Facilities:
   1.   The Village may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a public way.
   2.   The Village may require any freestanding facility located within a
public way to be screened from view.
F.   Aboveground Facilities: Aboveground facilities may only be installed if:
   1.   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground; and
   2.   New underground installation is not technically feasible, as determined
by the Village Engineer, in his/her sole discretion; and
   3.   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will employ
suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of aesthetic
qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting safety.
Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting, armless,
single-pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and cable.
Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever practicable.
The installation of additional utility poles is strongly discouraged.
G.   Facility Attachments To Bridges Or Roadway Structures:
   1.   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility provider has demonstrated all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk, and such installations are not
permitted.
   2.   A utility provider shall include in its request to accommodate a
facility installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data
demonstrating the impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or
disapproval of all application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway
structure will be based upon the following considerations:
      a.   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
      b.   The type, length, value and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
      c.   The alternative routings available to the utility provider and their
comparative practicability;
      d.   The proposed method of attachment;
      e.   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
      f.   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
      g.   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
      h.   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared to
the risk involved.
H.   Appearance Standards:
   1.   The Village may prohibit the installation of facilities in particular
locations in order to preserve the aesthetic and visual qualities of the area.
   2.   A facility may only be constructed if its construction does not require
extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to the
public way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it does
not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed. (Ord. 775-14,
10-6-2014; amd. Ord. 982-2019, 10-21-2019)
7-2-11: CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS:
A.   General Standards And Safety Requirements: The construction, operation and
maintenance of facilities located in the public way shall be performed in an
orderly and workmanlike manner, and shall further be performed in such a manner
to maintain customer service. All such work shall be performed in substantial
accordance with generally applicable Federal, State, and local regulations, as
well as the National Electrical Safety Code.
B.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Construction Methods:
   1.   No borings or trenches will be allowed in the public way within ten
feet (10') of culverts, storm sewers, drainage structures, water mains,
sanitary sewer mains, sanitary force mains or any other underground utility
unless prior approval has been obtained from the Village Engineer.
   2.   Jacking, jetting, tunneling and pipe bursting/ramming for a pipe,
conduit, wire or cable greater than two inches (2") in diameter for a roadway
crossing shall not be allowed.
   3.   The Village Engineer shall, in his/her sole discretion, approve any
roadway crossing by bore or open trench of a pipe, conduit, wire or cable six
inches (6") in diameter or larger or multiple pipes, conduits, wires or cables.
A separate plan sheet showing the plan and profile of a roadway crossing shall
be included in the plans. The plan view shall show dimensions from the proposed
crossing to such visible features as to reasonably locate the location of the
proposed crossing. The profile view shall show the existing surface at the
proposed crossing with elevations at but not limited to ditch flowlines, each
edge of right of way and/or easement, each edge of pavement, each center of
lane(s), each edge of lane(s), centerline of pavement and depths of existing
utilities. The benchmark from which the elevations were derived shall be
included on sheets in the plans.
   4.   A pipe, conduit, wire or cable six inches (6") in diameter or larger
installed by boring shall be in a casing pipe.
   5.   Multiple pipes, conduits, wires or cables may be laid in the same open
trench unless other regulations, rules or requirements prohibit placement in
the same trench. Multiple pipes, conduits, wires or cables placed by boring
will require casing pipe. If more than one (1) bore is required, the minimum
width between the bores shall be the width of the largest pipe but no less than
three feet (3').
   6.   A record of any bore six inches (6") in diameter or larger shall be
submitted to the Village Clerk within one (1) business day after completion of
the bore. Elevations shall be taken at each edge of the pavement, each center
of lane(s), each edge of lane(s) and centerline of pavement and recorded on the
plan and profile sheet in the plans.
   7.   Any damage to the roadway by boring including, but not limited to,
raising or cracking the pavement shall be repaired or replaced.
   8.   Jack and auger boring may be utilized for installation, repair, or
maintenance of a facility on the public way if authorized and/or required by
the Village Engineer, in his/her sole discretion, but is typically utilized for
larger borings under roadways, railroads, streams and similar areas where open
cut/trenches are not practical or allowed. If jack and auger boring is
authorized and/or required, the jack and auger boring shall be completed in
compliance with the following requirements:
      a.   Pits And Shoring: Pits shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') from the
back of curb, edge of gutter, edge of pavement shoulder or edge of pavement.
Pits shall be excavated no more than forty eight (48) hours in advance of the
operations and shall be backfilled within forty eight (48) hours after
operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly marked and
protected by barricades and temporary fencing. Shoring shall be designed,
erected, supported, braced and maintained so that it will safely support all
vertical and lateral loads that may be imposed upon it until backfill
operations are completed.
      b.   Drilling Fluid/Mud: Water or a mixture of water and bentonite and/or
polymer may be pumped to the rotating cutting head to ease cutting of soil
material and auger to the back of the casing pipe.
      c.   Rotating Cutting Edge: The rotating cutting edge shall not be
extended so as to be completely past the leading edge of the pipe casing.
   9.   Horizontal directional boring or drilling may be utilized for
installation, repair, or maintenance of a facility on the public way if
authorized and/or required by the Village Engineer, in his/her sole discretion.
If horizontal directional boring or drilling is authorized and/or required, the
horizontal directional boring or drilling shall be completed in compliance with
the following requirements:
      a.   Pits And Shoring: Pits shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') from the
back of curb, edge of gutter, edge of pavement shoulder or edge of pavement.
Pits shall be excavated no more than forty eight (48) hours in advance of the
operations and shall be backfilled within forty eight (48) hours after
operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly marked and
protected by barricades and temporary fencing. Shoring shall be designed,
erected, supported, braced and maintained so that it will safely support all
vertical and lateral loads that may be imposed upon it until backfill
operations are completed.
      b.   Surface Launch Bore: A horizontal directional boring or drilling may
be launched from the existing ground surface if sufficient easement and/or
right of way is available. A surface launch bore shall be such that the
required depth is achieved at the right of way or easement line.
      c.   Drilling Fluid/Mud: Water or a mixture of water and bentonite and/or
polymer may be pumped to the backreamer to ease cutting of soil material,
consolidating the materials, and lubrication of the pipe or casing following
the backreamer. Drilling fluid/mud that has escaped the bore, bore pit or is
otherwise not contained shall be cleaned up. Under no circumstances is the
fluid/mud to be washed into a drain, storm sewer, ditch, creek, stream, river
or other bodies of water.
      d.   Cutting Diameter Of Backreamer: The cutting diameter of the
backreamer shall not exceed the greatest outside diameter of the casing pipe by
more than two inches (2").
      e.   Casing Pipe: Under no circumstances shall a backreamer with a
diameter of six inches (6") or more be pulled back without the casing pipe.
   10.   Trenching for facility installation, repair or maintenance on the
public way shall be done in accordance with the applicable portions of section
603 of IDOT's "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction".
      a.   Length: The length of open trench shall be kept to the practicable
minimum, consistent with requirements for pipe-line testing. Only one-half (1/
2) of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless special
permission is obtained from the Village Engineer.
      b.   Open Trench And Excavated Material: Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by chapter 6 of the Illinois
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where public way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off road location.
      c.   Drip Line Of Trees: The utility provider shall not trench within the
drip line of any tree designated by the Village to be preserved.
   11.   a. Any pit, trench or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's "Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction". When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used. If the
utility provider utilizes an open trench, the trench shall be backfilled and
compacted with CA-6 gradation, and the surface of public ways shall be replaced
with the same depth and material as previously existed.
      b.   For a period of three (3) years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility provider shall be responsible to remove and
restore any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the
facility. If so ordered by the Village Engineer, the utility provider, at its
expense, shall remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the
installed facility, place and properly compact new backfill material, and
restore new pavement, sidewalk, curbs and driveways to the proper grades, as
determined by the Village Engineer.
   12.   Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair shall be permitted
on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed to traffic. If a
variance to the limitation set forth in this subsection B12 is permitted under
section
7-2-18 of this chapter, the following requirements shall apply:
      a.   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted by
mechanical means as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10
gradation, as designated by the Village Engineer.
      b.   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon as
practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the Village.
      c.   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
      d.   For all public ways which have been reconstructed with a concrete
surface/base in the last seven (7) years, or resurfaced in the last five (5)
years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to be an
emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before the
time of the reconstruction or unless pavement cut is necessary for a JULIE
locate.
   13.   a. Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the highway
and any other superimposed loads. The casing pipe shall be continuous either by
one (1) piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
Village.
      b.   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one foot
(1') (0.3 m) of the public way line. No above-ground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as a clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
      c.   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall be
furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or jointed pipe approved by
the Village is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is
installed prior to highway construction and is continuous or mechanical joints
are of a type approved by the Village. Bell and spigot type pipe shall be
encased regardless of installation method.
      d.   In the case of gas pipelines of sixty (60) psig or less, encasement
may be eliminated.
      e.   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than sixty (60) psig, encasement may be eliminated only
if: 1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair;
and 2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
      f.   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the public way.
   14.   Cover shall be provided and maintained at least in the amount
specified in the following table for minimum cover for the type of facility:
 
Type Of Facility                        Minimum Cover (Inches)
Electric lines                          30
Communication, cable or video service   24
lines
Gas or petroleum products               30
Water lines                             Sufficient to provide freeze protection
                                        per IEPA requirements
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer or drainage Sufficient to provide freeze protection
lines                                   per IEPA requirements
 
C.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Facilities:
   1.   Electric Power Or Communication Lines:
      a.   Code Compliance: Electric power or communications facilities along
any public way in the Village shall be constructed, operated and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Ill. Adm. Code part 305 (formerly General
Order 160 of the Illinois Commerce Commission) entitled "Rules for Construction
of Electric Power and Communications Lines" and the National Electrical Safety
Code.
      b.   Overhead Facilities: Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utility providers shall make every reasonable effort to design
the installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be
allowed if there is no feasible alternative and if guy wires are equipped with
guy guards for maximum visibility.
      c.   Underground Facilities:
         (1)   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing; provided, that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
         (2)   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if: a) the crossing is installed by the use of "moles", "whip augers", or
other approved method which compresses the earth to make the opening for cable
installation; or b) the installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any
cable or group of cables measuring six inches (6") or more in diameter must be
encased.
         (3)   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the National
Electrical Safety Code.
      d.   Burial Of Drops: All temporary service drops placed between November
1 of the prior year and March 31 of the current year, also known as snowdrops,
shall be buried by May 1 of the current year, weather permitting, unless
otherwise permitted by the Village. Weather permitting, utility providers shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snowdrops, within ten (10) business days
after placement.
   2.   Underground Facilities Other Than Electric Power Or Communication
Lines: Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
      a.   The use of "moles", "whip augers", or other approved methods which
compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
      b.   Jacking, boring, or horizontal directional drilling with vented
encasement provided between the ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
or
      c.   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines or
toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction.
   3.   Gas Transmission, Distribution And Service: Gas pipelines within a
public way shall be constructed, maintained and operated in a manner approved
by the Village and in conformance with the Federal Code of the Office of
Pipeline Safety Operations, Department of Transportation, Part 192 -
Transportation of Natural and Other Gas by Pipeline: Minimum Federal Safety
Standards (49 CFR section 192), IDOT's "Standard Specifications for Road and
Bridge Construction", and all other applicable laws, rules and regulations.
   4.   Petroleum Products Pipelines: Petroleum products pipelines within a
public way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI Standard Code for
Pressure Piping. (Liquid Petroleum Transportation Piping Systems ANSI-B 31.4.)
   5.   Water Lines, Sanitary Sewer Lines, Stormwater Sewer Lines Or Drainage
Lines: Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, stormwater sewer lines and drainage
lines within a public way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of the
current "Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois" and any applicable IEPA requirements.
   6.   Ground Mounted Appurtenances: Ground mounted appurtenances to overhead
or underground facilities, when permitted within a public way, shall be
provided with a vegetation-free area extending one foot (1') in width beyond
the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation-free area may be provided by
an extension of the mounting pad or by heavy duty plastic or similar material
approved by the Village Engineer. With the approval of the Village Engineer,
shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be used in place of vegetation-free
area. The housing for ground mounted appurtenances shall be painted a neutral
color to blend with the surroundings.
D.   Materials:
   1.   General Standards: The materials used in constructing facilities within
public ways shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the appropriate
industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's "Standards Specifications for Road
and Bridge Construction", the requirements of the Illinois Commerce Commission
or the standards established by other official regulatory agencies for the
appropriate industry.
   2.   Material Storage On Public Way: No material shall be stored on the
public way without the prior written approval of the Village Clerk. When such
storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles, crossarms or other
materials shall be distributed along the public way prior to and during
installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an obstacle to
public way maintenance or damage to the public way and other property. If
material is to be stored on a public way, prior approval must be obtained from
the Village.
   3.   Hazardous Materials: The plans submitted by the utility provider to the
Village shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the
construction of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
E.   Operational Restrictions:
   1.   Construction operations on a public way may, at the discretion of the
Village, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the public way or other
property.
   2.   These restrictions may be waived by the Village Clerk if emergency work
is required to restore vital utility services.
   3.   Unless otherwise permitted or required by the Village, the days and
hours of construction shall be Monday through Friday from seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
F.   Location Of Existing Facilities: Any utility provider proposing to
construct facilities in the Village shall contact JULIE and ascertain the
presence and location of existing aboveground and underground facilities within
public ways to be occupied by its proposed facilities. When notified of an
excavation or when requested by the Village or by JULIE, a utility provider
shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities within forty eight
(48) hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance with the Illinois
Underground Facilities Damage Prevention Act 1 . (Ord. 775-14, 10-6-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.
7-2-12: VEGETATION CONTROL:
A.   Electric Utilities: An electric utility provider shall conduct all tree
trimming and vegetation control activities in the public way in accordance with
applicable Illinois laws and regulations and, additionally, with such local
franchise or other agreement with the Village as permitted by law.
B.   Other Utilities:
   1.   Permit Requirements:
      a.   Permit Required: Tree trimming that is done by any other utility
provider with facilities in public ways and is not performed pursuant to
applicable Illinois laws and regulations specifically governing the same, shall
not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but shall require the
application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition to any other permit
required under this chapter.
      b.   Application For Permit: Applications for tree trimming or removal
permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by competent
workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning or
removal practices. Tree trimming or removal permits shall designate an
expiration date in the interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously
accomplished.
   2.   Damage To Trees: Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The Village will
require compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed
without authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The Village may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   3.   Removal Of Tree Stumps: The utility provider shall remove all tree
stumps resulting from tree trimming or removal at the expense of the utility
provider. Such removal shall include removal of the tree stump by excavating
and/or grinding the tree stump not less than eighteen inches (18") below the
surface of the ground. All tree stumps shall be removed no later than thirty
(30) calendar days following the tree trimming or removal.
   4.   Trimming Or Pruning Standards: All tree trimming and/or tree pruning
shall meet the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) pruning standards
and pruning methods, as endorsed by the International Society of Arborists
(ISA). All crew foremen shall be certified line clearance tree trimmers, and
all general foremen shall be arborists certified by the ISA. Evidence that the
crew foreman and/or general foreman is properly certified shall be provided to
the Village prior to commencement of any tree trimming and/or tree pruning
activities.
C.   Specimen Trees Or Trees Of Special Significance: The Village may require
special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of special
significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side arm
extensions, covered wire or other means.
D.   Chemical Use:
   1.   Except as provided in subsection D2 of this section, no utility
provider shall spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs
or vegetation in the Village for any purpose, including the control of growth,
insects or disease.
   2.   Spraying of any type of brush-killing chemicals will not be permitted
on public ways unless the utility provider demonstrates to the satisfaction and
sole discretion of the Village Clerk such spraying is the only practicable
method of vegetation control. If the Village Clerk authorizes such spraying,
the utility provider must provide a copy of its applicable Department of
Agriculture applicator license.
E.   Repair Of Landscaping: If any utility provider disturbs any landscaping or
surface area in constructing any facility on a public way, said utility
provider shall be obligated, at the utility provider's expense, to repair any
and all landscaping and lime, seed and mulch any damaged surface area within
the public way in accordance with Class 1 or 1A temporary and final landscaping
requirements contained within IDOT's Standard Specifications for Road and
Bridge Construction, unless otherwise approved by the Village Clerk. All
landscaping and/or seeding shall be completed no later than thirty (30)
calendar days following completion of the work on the public way. All materials
utilized to repair landscaping and/or surface area shall be as designated by
the Village Clerk at his/her sole discretion. (Ord. 775-14, 10-6-2014)
7-2-13: REMOVAL, RELOCATION OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES:
A.   Approval Of Relocation Required: In the event a utility provider must
relocate utilities owned by the Village, the utility provider's plans must be
approved by the Village Engineer. The proposed relocation shall meet all
applicable standards of the Village for water, sewers and streets.
B.   Compliance with Notice: Within sixty (60) calendar days following written
notice from the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, a Utility Provider shall, at
its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or permanently disconnect,
remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any utility Facilities within
Public Ways whenever the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, has determined, in its
sole discretion, such removal, relocation, change, or alteration, is reasonably
necessary for the Construction, location, repair, maintenance, replacement, or
installation of any Village of Dieterich, Illinois, improvement in or upon, or
the operations of the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, in or upon, the Public
Way.
C.   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) calendar days
following written notice from the Village, any utility provider that owns,
controls or maintains any unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within
the public way shall, at its own expense, remove all or any part of such
facilities or appurtenances from the public way. A facility is unauthorized and
subject to removal by the Village in the following circumstances:
   1.   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or franchise,
unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
   2.   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior grant of
a license or franchise, if required;
   3.   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance of
a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
   4.   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
D.   Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities: The Village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the public
ways of the Village as deemed necessary, appropriate or useful in response to
any public health or safety emergency. If circumstances permit, the Village
shall attempt to notify the utility provider, if known, prior to cutting or
removing a facility and shall notify the utility provider, if known, after
cutting or removing a facility.
E.   Abandonment Of Facilities: Upon abandonment of or useful life of a
facility within the public ways of the Village, the utility provider shall
provide written notice to the Village within ninety (90) calendar days.
Following receipt of such notice, the Village may direct the utility provider
to remove all or any portion of the facility if the Village Engineer
determines, in his/her sole discretion, such removal will be in the best
interest of the public health, safety and welfare. In the event that the
Village does not direct the utility provider which abandoned the facility to
remove it, by giving notice of abandonment to the Village, the abandoning
utility provider shall be deemed to consent to the alteration or removal of all
or any portion of the facility by another utility provider or person. (Ord.
775-14, 10-6-2014; amd. Ord. 982-2019, 10-21-2019)
7-2-14: CLEANUP AND RESTORATION:
The utility provider shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and
terrain and other property within ten (10) calendar days after any portion of
the public ways is disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or
maintenance by the utility provider. This shall be done to the satisfaction of
the Village. This includes restoration of entrances and side roads. Restoration
of roadway surfaces shall be made using materials and methods approved by the
Village Clerk. Such cleanup and repair may be required to consist of
backfilling, rough grading, final regrading, reseeding, resodding or any other
requirement to restore the public way to a condition substantially equivalent
to that which existed prior to the commencement of the project. Under no
circumstances shall a utility provider dispose of any material into a storm or
sanitary sewer line within the Village without the prior approval of the
Village Clerk. The time period provided in this section may be extended, in
his/her sole discretion, by the Village Clerk for good cause shown. (Ord. 775-
14, 10-6-2014)
7-2-15: MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS:
A.   General Maintenance Requirements: Facilities on, over, above, along, upon,
under, across or within public ways are to be maintained by or for the utility
provider in a manner satisfactory to the Village at the utility provider's
expense.
B.   Emergency Maintenance Procedures: Emergencies may justify non- compliance
with normal procedures for securing a permit:
   1.   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of public
ways, the utility provider shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the public way,
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled portion of the public way, but the nature of the
emergency is such as to require the parking on the shoulder of equipment
required in repair operations, adequate signs and lights shall be provided.
Parking on the shoulder in such an emergency will only be permitted when no
other means of access to the facility is available.
   2.   In an emergency, the utility provider shall, as soon as possible,
notify the Village Clerk or his/her duly authorized agents of the emergency,
informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection of the
traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary repairs. If
the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free movement of
traffic, the Effingham County Sheriff's Department shall be notified
immediately.
   3.   In an emergency, the utility provider shall use all means at hand to
complete repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to
the traveling public.
C.   Emergency Repairs: The utility provider must file in writing with the
Village a description of the repairs undertaken in the public way within forty
eight (48) hours after an emergency repair. (Ord. 775-14, 10-6-2014)
7-2-16: WORK TO BE TIMELY:
A utility provider shall conduct all construction, relocation and repairs to
facilities in a timely fashion so as not to delay any project undertaken by the
Village. All work shall be commenced and completed promptly as defined in
section
7-2-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 775-14, 10-6-2014)
7-2-17: DAMAGE TO WATER OR SEWER LINES OR LATERAL PIPES:
In the event a utility provider damages a water line, sewer line or lateral
pipe and causes the Village or any other person to incur expenses associated
with repairing the damage to the line caused by the utility provider, the
utility provider shall be liable for the costs of all repairs and damages
incurred by the Village or private party as a result of the utility provider's
damage to a water line, sewer line or lateral pipe. (Ord. 775-14, 10-6-2014)
7-2-18: VARIANCES:
A.   Authority: The Village, in administrating this chapter, may vary the
standards, methods, conditions, and requirements expressed in this chapter when
the Village, in its sole discretion, so determines. Nothing herein shall be
construed to limit the ability of the Village to regulate its public ways for
the protection of the public health, safety and welfare.
B.   Request For Variance: A utility provider requesting a variance from one
(1) or more of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the
Village Clerk as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify
each provision of this chapter from which a variance is requested and the
reasons why a variance should be granted.
C.   Granting Variances: The Village Clerk shall decide whether a variance is
authorized for each provision of this chapter identified in the variance
request on an individual basis.
D.   Conditions:
   1.   The Village Clerk may authorize a variance only if the utility provider
requesting the variance has demonstrated that:
      a.   One (1) or more conditions not under the control of the utility
provider (such as terrain features or an irregular public way line) create a
special hardship that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable,
given the public purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      b.   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform to the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   2.   As a condition for authorizing a variance, the Village Clerk may
require the utility provider requesting the variance to meet reasonable
standards and conditions that may or may not be expressly contained within this
chapter but which carry out the purposes of this chapter.
E.   Right To Appeal: Any utility provider aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the Village
Clerk under the provisions of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to
the Village President. The application for appeal shall be submitted in writing
to the Village Clerk within thirty (30) calendar days after the date of such
order, requirement, decision or determination. The Village President shall
issue a decision on the appeal within fourteen (14) calendar days after the
filing of the appeal. (Ord. 775-14, 10-6-2014)
7-2-19: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
A.   Any person, permittee, utility provider or entity which violates,
disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses to comply with any of the provisions of
this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of a civil
ordinance violation and shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed to be committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues. In addition to any fine, the Village may seek
injunctive and declaratory relief directing the violator(s) to cure the
violation, and the Village may revoke any permit authorized and issued pursuant
to this chapter.
B.   There may be times when the Village will incur delay or other costs,
including third party claims, because the person, permittee, or utility
provider will not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and this
chapter. Unless the person, permittee, or utility provider shows another
allocation of the cost of undertaking the requested action is appropriate, the
person, permittee, or utility provider shall bear the Village costs of damages
and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying, relocating or removing the
facility that is the subject of the permit. No other administrative agency or
commission may review or overrule a permit related cost apportionment of the
Village. Sanctions may be imposed upon a utility provider which does not pay
the costs apportioned thereto.
C.   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
provision of this chapter, by any officer, director, manager or other agent or
employee of any person, permittee, or utility provider, shall be deemed and
held to be the act of such person, permittee, or utility provider, and the
person, permittee, or utility provider shall be punishable in the same manner
as if the act or omission had been done or omitted by him personally.
D.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the Village may have for enforcement of this chapter.
Furthermore, nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the Village's
ability to correct and require compliance with matters inadvertently excluded
during any application and/or permit review process. (Ord. 775-14, 10-6-2014)
CHAPTER 3
VILLAGE PARKS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Closing Hours
7-3-1: CLOSING HOURS:
Village parks shall be closed daily from eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. until six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following day unless there is an approved scheduled
event in progress. (Ord. 473, 12-4-2000; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 4
VILLAGE CEMETERY
SECTION:
7-4-1: Supervision
7-4-2: Burial Lots
7-4-3: Burial Permits
7-4-4: Indigent Persons
7-4-1: SUPERVISION:
The Village Cemetery shall be in the charge of the Cemetery Committee of the
Village Board of Trustees. (1945 Code § 3-1; amd. 2017 Code)
7-4-2: BURIAL LOTS:
A.   Purchase Price: Two (2) person lots in the Village for burial purposes
shall be sold at three hundred dollars ($300.00) for residents and four hundred
dollars ($400.00) for nonresidents. (1945 Code § 3-2; amd. 2017 Code)
B.   Application For Purchase; Issuance Of Deed Of Conveyance: Any person
desiring to purchase a lot shall apply to the Village Clerk and pay the usual
purchase price of such lot. Upon payment of the purchase price, a deed of
conveyance shall be issued to the purchaser, in the name of the Village, signed
by the Village President and attested by the Village Clerk, conveying said lot
for burial purposes only.
C.   Recordkeeping: The Village Clerk shall keep a record of all lots sold, the
date, price paid, and purchaser, which shall be kept as a part of the permanent
records of his office.
D.   Use Regulations: The use of burial lots shall be subject to all laws, and
ordinances and rules of the Village. (1945 Code § 3-2)
7-4-3: BURIAL PERMITS:
A.   No burial or interment shall be lawful in the Village or Village Cemetery,
nor shall any dead body be removed from the Village without first obtaining
permission from the Village. (1945 Code § 3-3; amd. 2017 Code)
B.   The Village Clerk shall keep a permanent record of all such certificates
issued, showing the name of the deceased, date of death, and where buried.
(1945 Code § 3-3)
7-4-4: INDIGENT PERSONS:
Poor or destitute persons may be buried in the Village Cemetery, at such part
thereof as may be set off for such purpose by the Village Board, without charge
for the burial lot. (1945 Code § 3-4)
CHAPTER 5
CULVERTS WITHIN PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAYS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Definitions
7-5-2: Permit Required
7-5-3: Construction Requirements
7-5-4: Penalties
7-5-5: Enforcement
7-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   FOREMAN: Shall mean the Village of Dieterich Street Department Foreman, or
his or her designee.
   PERMITTEE: Shall mean that person to which a culvert permit has been issued
pursuant to section
7-5-2 of this chapter.
   PERSON: Shall mean any natural person, firm, partnership, joint venture,
club, company, association, syndicate, society, business trust, organization,
institution, agency, government corporation, Municipal corporation, district or
other political subdivision, corporation, limited liability company,
proprietorship, contractor, supplier, vendor, vendee, operator, or other legal
entity. It shall also include an executor, administrator, trustee, receiver or
other representative appointed according to law. Whenever the word "person"
appears in any section of this chapter prescribing a penalty or fine, as to
partnerships or associations, the word shall include the partners or members
thereof, and as to corporations or limited liability company, shall include the
officers, agents or members thereof who are responsible for any violation of
this chapter.
   PUBLIC WAYS OR PUBLIC WAY: Shall mean the surface of, and the space above
and below, any public street, highway, boulevard, alley, roadway, sidewalk,
lane, public way, drive, circle, or other public right-of-way, including, but
not limited to, public utility easements, dedicated utility strips, or right-
of-ways dedicated for compatible use now or hereafter held by the Village of
Dieterich, Illinois.
   VILLAGE: Shall mean the Village of Dieterich, Illinois. (Ord. 909-2018, 8-6-
2018)
7-5-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
A.   Permit Requirement: No person shall install, construct, extend, or alter a
driveway culvert within a public way located within the corporate limits of the
Village, unless such person, shall have first obtained a duly issued and
authorized permit issued by the Village, authorizing such culvert, as provided
for herein (hereinafter referred to as the "culvert permit").
B.   Other Requirements: The standards, procedures, and approvals required by
this chapter are minimum standards of the Village. Any culvert located on a
township, county, State, or Federal highway may be subject to additional
standards, procedures, and approvals of other governmental bodies. Where more
than one governmental body has authority or jurisdiction over the placement of
a driveway access or culvert, the driveway access and/or culvert shall comply
with the most restrictive requirements. A permit authorized under this chapter
only constitutes approval under this chapter. The applicant for a culvert
permit is solely responsible for obtaining any other required approvals.
C.   Application: An application for a culvert permit shall be submitted in
such form as the Village may prescribe, from time to time. Such application
shall be in writing upon forms prepared and furnished by the Village. Each
application for a culvert permit shall be signed by the applicant and shall be
filed with the Village Clerk. In case the applicant is a partnership, all
partners must sign the application. In case the applicant is a limited
partnership, all general partners and any limited partner owning more than a
five percent (5%) interest in such limited partnership must sign the
application. In case the applicant is a corporation, all officers, directors
and any stockholders owning more than five percent (5%) of the stock of such
corporation must sign the application and indicate their official position. In
case the applicant is a limited liability company, all members owning more than
five percent (5%) of the interest of such company must sign the application and
indicate their official position. In case the applicant is a club or
association, all officers and directors shall sign the application. Such
application shall contain, at a minimum, the following:
   1.   Full names and addresses of the applicant and/or the owner of the
subject property;
   2.   Drawing, drawn to scale, showing the proposed location, placement,
dimensions, size and type of access and culvert, building setback lines, and
utilities, if applicable, as the foreman may require;
   3.   The application shall also include a legal description of the subject
property;
   4.   Any additional information and/or documentation as may be required by
the foreman, to determine compliance with all applicable ordinances, laws,
rules and regulations of the Village.
D.   Application Fee: To partially defray expenses of administering this
chapter, a non-refundable fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) shall be charged for
each culvert permit application filed, and shall be paid by the applicant to
the Village Clerk upon filing the culvert permit application.
E.   Application Review: Completed culvert permit applications, containing all
required information and/or documentation, shall be examined by the foreman,
within thirty (30) calendar days after filing. If the application does not
conform to the requirements of all applicable ordinances, laws, rules and
regulations of the Village, the foreman shall reject such application in
writing, stating the reasons therefor. Furthermore, if the foreman requests
additional information and/or documentation as part of the permit application,
and the applicant fails to provide said information and/or documentation in a
timely manner, said permit application shall be rejected and said applicant
shall be required to resubmit a new application for a culvert permit. If the
foreman is satisfied the proposed work conforms to the requirements of this
chapter and all other applicable ordinances, laws, rules and regulations, the
Village Clerk shall issue a culvert permit therefor. In all instances, it shall
be the duty of the applicant to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the
foreman, in his/her sole discretion, that the work proposed under the
application shall be in full compliance with the requirements of this chapter,
as well as all other applicable ordinances, laws, rules and regulations of the
Village. (Ord. 909-2018, 8-6-2018)
7-5-3: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Driveway Culvert Access: Unless otherwise determined by the Village Board
of Trustees, there shall only be one driveway culvert per parcel of record.
B.   New Culverts:
   1.   Payment For Installation: The cost of purchasing and installing the
initial driveway culvert will be the responsibility of the permittee. The
Village will estimate the material and installation costs and invoice the
permittee. Once payment in full has been received, for the estimated cost of
the material and installation, the Village will schedule a time to install the
driveway culvert. If during the installation process, any additional costs are
incurred by the Village, which are in excess of the original estimated amount,
the Village will invoice the permittee for the additional costs, and permittee
must pay the additional costs within fifteen (15) calendar days after the
mailing of the invoice. If the original invoiced amount is less than the actual
costs to install, the Village will reimburse the permittee for the overpayment.
   2.   Construction Standards: The location of the driveway culvert shall be
as approved by the foreman, in his/her sole discretion. Once location of the
driveway culvert is approved, the foreman will determine what size and length
of culvert needs to be installed. All culverts shall be a minimum of twenty
four feet (24') and a maximum of thirty six feet (36'), unless specific written
approval to do otherwise is obtained from the foreman. All culverts shall also
be a minimum of eight inches (8") in diameter, provided, however, that the
foreman may require a larger diameter culvert to be installed if the foreman,
in his or her sole discretion, deems a larger diameter culvert necessary. All
culverts need to be set in gravel of good quality, and designed so as to allow
the free flow of water through them. The area around the mouths of the culvert
should be rocked-up or graded such as to prevent soil erosion. The culvert
shall be an aluminized corrugated metal pipe. Either Village personnel, or a
private contractor that has been approved by the foreman shall install the
driveway culvert. After installation, the permittee shall convey the culvert to
the Village, by appropriate bill of sale, dedication or other conveyance
acceptable by the Village.
C.   Extending Existing Culverts:
   1.   Payment For Installation Of Extension: If a permittee desires to
lengthen an existing culvert (to a maximum of 36 feet, unless specific written
approval to do otherwise is obtained from the Street Department Foreman), the
cost of the material and installation of the extension to the driveway culvert
will be the responsibility of the permittee. The Village will estimate the
material and installation costs and invoice the permittee. Once payment in full
has been received, for the estimated cost of the material and installation, the
Village will schedule a time to install the driveway culvert. If during the
installation process, any additional costs are incurred by the Village, which
are in excess of the original estimated amount, the Village will invoice the
permittee for the additional costs, and permittee must pay the additional costs
within fifteen (15) calendar days after the mailing of the invoice. If the
original invoiced amount is less than the actual costs to install, the Village
will reimburse the permittee for the overpayment.
   2.   Construction Standards: The size and length of the extension shall be
approved by the foreman, in his or her sole discretion. All culverts shall be a
minimum of twenty four feet (24') and a maximum of thirty six feet (36'),
unless specific written approval to do otherwise is obtained from the foreman.
All extensions to driveway culverts shall also be a minimum of eight inches
(8") in diameter, provided, however, that the foreman may require a larger
diameter culvert to be installed if the foreman, in his or her sole discretion,
deems a larger diameter culvert necessary. All culverts need to be set in
gravel of good quality, and designed so as to allow the free flow of water
through them. The area around the mouths of the culvert should be rocked-up or
graded such as to prevent soil erosion. The extension to any culvert shall be
an aluminized corrugated metal pipe. Either Village personnel, or a private
contractor that has been approved by the foreman, shall install the extension
of the driveway culvert. After installation, the permittee shall convey the
extension to the driveway culvert, as well as any existing driveway culvert to
the Village, by appropriate bill of sale, dedication or other conveyance
acceptable by the Village.
D.   Replacing/Resetting Existing Culverts:
   1.   Payment For Installation Of Extension: The cost of replacing or
resetting an existing driveway culvert will be the responsibility of the
Village, only to the extent provided in this paragraph. The foreman shall
determine the necessity of installing, replacing, or resetting a culvert. If
the foreman determines, in his or her sole discretion, that a culvert does not
need to be installed, replaced, or reset, the Village will not be responsible
for performing the work. Furthermore, the Village will not be responsible for
installing, replacing or resetting a culvert if the property owner causes the
condition or damage which necessitates that a culvert be replaced or reset. The
intent of this paragraph is to place responsibility on the homeowner if they
cause the need for work to be performed, and to place responsibility on the
Village, only when environmental or other uncontrollable factors cause the need
for work to be performed. By way of example, and not limitation, a homeowner
would be responsible for repairing or replacing a culvert if they ran over the
end of it with a vehicle and closed off the end, or if they paved a large area
and directed the run-off toward a culvert that was too small. The Village would
be only responsible in such cases as rusted out culverts, or culverts that had
risen due to frost action. The Village will replace existing culverts, up to
the maximum of thirty six feet (36') and the property owner, at existing market
rates for such culvert and materials, shall pay for any footage beyond the
length or size of the existing culvert, up to a maximum of thirty six feet
(36'). The Village will estimate the material and installation costs and
invoice the landowner for the footage over the length or size of the existing
culvert. Once payment in full has been received, for the estimated cost of the
material and installation, the Village will schedule a time to replace and/or
reset the driveway culvert. If during the installation process, any additional
costs are incurred by the Village, which are in excess of the original
estimated amount, the Village will invoice the permittee for the additional
costs, and permittee must pay the additional costs within fifteen (15) calendar
days after the mailing of the invoice. If the original invoiced amount is less
than the actual costs to replace and/or reset the culvert, the Village will
reimburse the permittee for the overpayment.
   2.   Construction Standards: The size and length of any replacement or reset
culvert shall be approved by the foreman, in his or her sole discretion. Either
Village personnel, or a private contractor that has been approved by the
foreman, shall do all culvert replacements and/or resetting. After
installation, the permittee shall convey the replacement or reset driveway
culvert, as well as any existing driveway culvert to the Village, by
appropriate bill of sale, dedication or other conveyance acceptable by the
Village.
E.   Driveway Surface: A permittee, at the permittee's sole expense, may use
concrete or hot mix on the surface of the driveway over the culvert so long as
such concrete or hot mix does not damage or interfere with the Village's use or
maintenance of the public way. Should the Village need to thereafter replace
that culvert after it has been covered over by concrete or hot mix, it shall be
the property owner's responsibility, at the property owner's expense, to repair
and/or replace the concrete or hot mix. (Ord. 909-2018, 8-6-2018)
7-5-4: PENALTIES:
Any person which violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be deemed
guilty of a civil ordinance violation and shall be fined not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed to be committed on each
day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. In addition to any
fine, the Village may seek injunctive and declaratory relief directing the
violator(s) to cure the violation, and the Village may revoke any permit
authorized and issued pursuant to this chapter. Every act or omission of
whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any provision of this chapter, by
any officer, director, manager or other agent or employee of any person, shall
be deemed and held to be the act of such person, and the person shall be
punishable in the same manner as if the act or omission had been done or
omitted by him personally. (Ord. 909-2018, 8-6-2018)
7-5-5: ENFORCEMENT:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, may have for
enforcement of this chapter. Furthermore, nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to limit the Village's ability to correct and require compliance with
matters inadvertently excluded during any application and/or permit review
process. (Ord. 909-2018, 8-6-2018)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC SERVICES
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC SERVICES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Definitions
8-1-2: Identity Protection Policy
8-1-3: Tampering With, Damage To Water Or Sewer System
8-1-4: Notice Of Violation; Duty To Remedy
8-1-5: Civil Ordinance Violation; Penalties
8-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this title, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
   APPLICANT: Any person, corporation or entity that applies for water, sewer
or garbage service with the Village of Dieterich and shall include those
persons, corporations, or entities presently or prospectively receiving any of
such services.
   SUPERINTENDENT, VILLAGE CLERK AND VILLAGE TREASURER: Those persons duly
appointed by the President of the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 742-13, 8-5-2013)
8-1-2: IDENTITY PROTECTION POLICY:
A.   Policy Adopted: Effective June 1, 2011, the Written Identity Protection
Policy of the Village, a copy of which is on file in the Village as Exhibit A
and incorporated herein by this reference as if fully set forth, is hereby
adopted and approved.
B.   Amendments To Policy: The Village Clerk is hereby authorized to amend the
Policy, as may be required from time to time, to maintain compliance with the
provisions of the Illinois Identity Protection Act. (Ord. 672-11, 7-5-2011)
8-1-3: TAMPERING WITH, DAMAGE TO WATER OR SEWER SYSTEM:
It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, association, company, owner,
occupant, or agent not authorized by the Village Board of Trustees to tamper
with, alter or injure any part of the Village waterworks or supply system,
sewerage system, or any meter. (Ord. 742-13, 8-5-2013)
8-1-4: NOTICE OF VIOLATION; DUTY TO REMEDY:
Upon discovery of any violation of this title by the Corporate Authorities of
the Village, or personnel/agency charged with the enforcement of this title,
the person, corporation, association, company, owner, occupant, or agent
causing, allowing or permitting such violation shall be issued a notice to
abate stating the date, place, and condition complained of, and shall direct
the person, corporation, association, company, owner, occupant or agent
causing, allowing or permitting such violation to rectify the violation within
ten (10) days. In the event the person, corporation, association, company,
owner, occupant or agent fails to rectify the violation within said ten (10)
day period, then the Corporate Authorities of the Village or enforcement
personnel/agency shall issue a citation to or file a complaint against the
violator ordering the violator to appear in the Effingham County Circuit Court,
and charging the violator with a violation(s) of this title. Said citation or
complaint shall describe the violation and the part of this title violated.
(Ord. 742-13, 8-5-2013)
8-1-5: CIVIL ORDINANCE VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person, corporation, association, company, owner, occupant, or agent who
violates any provision of this title commits a civil ordinance violation and
shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00),
nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each day
a violation of this title is allowed to continue shall constitute a separate
offense. In addition to any fine, the Village may seek injunctive and
declaratory relief directing the violator(s) to cure the violation. (Ord. 742-
13, 8-5-2013; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 2
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-2-1: Application For Service; Deposit Required
8-2-2: Connection Fees
8-2-3: Meters Required
8-2-4: Village Water Lines
8-2-5: Water Taps
8-2-6: Access To Private Property By Village
8-2-7: User Rates
8-2-8: Bills For Service; Delinquencies
8-2-9: Water Leak; Sewer Rate Adjustment
8-2-1: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE; DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
A.   Any person located within the corporate limits of the Village, requesting
water services from the Village, shall complete a water service application
(Form 1 on file in the Village) and deposit with the Village Treasurer the sum
of:
   1.   Property owners: No deposit required.
   2.   Renters/tenants: One hundred dollars ($100.00).
B.   Upon receipt of the water service application and deposit, the Village
Treasurer shall issue a water service work order to the Superintendent (Form 2
on file in the Village). The Superintendent shall proceed to connect water
service to the applicant's premises. The Superintendent shall not connect water
service to any premises unless so directed by the Village Treasurer. Water
service shall not be connected to any premises if the applicant fails to fully
complete the application and/or fails to fully pay the deposit to the Village
Treasurer.
C.   The Village Treasurer shall place all deposits received in the appropriate
Water Department Fund. Said deposit shall be refunded to the applicant upon
termination of the supply of water services to the applicant's premises;
provided, that any and all charges for water service supplied to said applicant
have been paid in full according to the records of the Village Treasurer. The
Village Treasurer may, with or without notice to the applicant, apply any
applicant's deposit to any delinquency or unpaid amount charged to such
applicant for water service incurred by said applicant. Upon a customer's
request, and if such customer is the owner of the property served, the Village
Treasurer shall refund all deposit paid pursuant to this section if such
customer has not been delinquent in paying all water service bills for the
previous consecutive twelve (12) months. (Ord. 742-13, 8-5-2013)
8-2-2: CONNECTION FEES:
A.   In addition to the deposit required in Section
8-2-1 above, the following fees shall be imposed for water service connection
services:
   1.   Water Connection Fee for Existing Service: zero dollars ($0.00).
   2.   Disconnection Fee for Non-Payment: twenty-five dollars ($25.00).
   3.   Reconnection Fee: twenty-five dollars ($25.00).
   4.   Percent inch normal new Service Fee: Tap fee of nine hundred dollars
($900.00), plus applicant/customer shall be responsible for all costs and
expenses for materials and labor to install new water service and meter onto
Village water system.
   5.   One (1) inch normal new Service Fee: Tap fee of nine hundred dollars
($900.00), plus applicant/customer shall be responsible for all costs and
expenses for materials and labor to install new water service and meter onto
Village water system.
   6.   Turn On/Off Charge for After Hours (any time outside of Monday through
Friday, seven o’clock (7:00) a.m. to three o’clock (3:00) p.m.): fifty dollars
($50.00) each time.
B.   The fees stated in subsection 1. through 6. above shall be collected by
the Village Treasurer. The Village Treasurer shall deposit the collected fees
in the appropriate account. The Superintendent shall not perform connect,
disconnect, reconnect or provide for new water service to any premises or
applicant without the written direction of the Village Treasurer. (Ord. 866-17,
11-20-2017; amd. Ord. 1077-2021, 9-20-2021)
8-2-3: METERS REQUIRED:
All premises connected to the Village water system shall be equipped with a
water meter furnished by the Village. No water service shall be furnished to a
premises which is not supplied with a water meter. (Ord. 742-13, 8-5-2013)
8-2-4: VILLAGE WATER LINES:
A.   No Village water line shall be located on private property unless
easements are first obtained.
B.   No Village water line shall be improved, repaired or extended without the
approval of the Board of Trustees, except in the event of a bona fide
emergency. In the event of a bona fide emergency, the Village President shall
have the authority to improve, repair, or extend a Village water line.
C.   The Village shall not accept or assume responsibility for lines improved,
repaired or extended in violation of this chapter. The Village shall not accept
or assume responsibility for that portion of a service line located on the
applicant's side of the meter; the Village's responsibility shall be limited to
that portion of the water system from the meter to the water main only. (Ord.
742-13, 8-5-2013)
8-2-5: WATER TAPS:
A.   No connection or tap shall be made to a Village water line unless such
connection or tap is made in a manner consistent with this chapter.
B.   Not more than one building or structure shall be served by any single
connection or tap to the Village water system. (Ord. 742-13, 8-5-2013)
8-2-6: ACCESS TO PRIVATE PROPERTY BY VILLAGE:
Village officials and employees shall have the right of ingress and egress at
reasonable times over, in, under and across the property of an applicant for
purposes of reading water meters and testing, operating, repairing, and
maintaining the Village water system. (Ord. 742-13, 8-5-2013)
8-2-7: USER RATES:
A.   The following rates are hereby imposed for the sale of water for customers
living inside the incorporated limits supplied by the Village:
   1.   Minimum Monthly Water Service Fee Per Customer (Includes first one
thousand five hundred (1,500) gallons): $15.80.
   2.   Rate Per one thousand (1,000) Gallons Used Per Month After First one
thousand five hundred (1,500) Gallons: $4.02.
   3.   Automatic Rate Increase: Beginning the 1 day of January, 2022, on the
first billing period of each calendar year for the next five (5) calendar years
after the adoption of this chapter, both the Minimum Monthly rate and the rate
established for each one thousand (1,000) Gallons used per month after the
First one thousand five hundred (1,500) Gallons shall be increased on an annual
basis in accordance with the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and
Clerical Workers (1967 = 100) for All Items of All Cities, issued by the United
States Department of Labor (hereinafter referred to as the "CPI") for that
year. If the adjusted rates for any calendar year, as calculated by the CPI, is
lower than the rates for the prior year, then the rates shall not be adjusted
for that calendar year. Notwithstanding the foregoing, before any automatic
rate increase is imposed, the Village Board can vote to not adjust the rate to
the full calculated CPI for any calendar year.
B.   The following rates are hereby imposed for the sale of water for customers
living outside the incorporated limits supplied by the Village:
   1.   Minimum Monthly Water Service Fee Per Customer (Includes first one
thousand five hundred (1,500) gallons): $20.15.
   2.   Rate Per one thousand (1,000) Gallons Used Per Month After First one
thousand five hundred (1,500) Gallons: $4.02.
   3.   Automatic Rate Increase: Beginning the 1 day of January, 2022, on the
first billing period of each calendar year for the next five (5) calendar years
after the adoption of this chapter, both the Minimum Monthly rate and the rate
established for each one thousand (1,000) Gallons used per month after the
First one thousand five hundred (1,500) Gallons shall be increased on an annual
basis in accordance with the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and
Clerical Workers (1967 = 100) for All Items of All Cities, issued by the United
States Department of Labor (hereinafter referred to as the "CPI") for that
year. If the adjusted rates for any calendar year, as calculated by the CPI, is
lower than the rates for the prior year, then the rates shall not be adjusted
for that calendar year. Notwithstanding the foregoing, before any automatic
rate increase is imposed, the Village Board can vote to not adjust the rate to
the full calculated CPI for any calendar year.
C.   The following rates are hereby imposed for the sale of water for bulk
water customers obtaining water through a Village hydrant located at the
Village Maintenance Building:
   1.   Bulk Water Rate Per one thousand (1,000) Gallons, or any portion
thereof: $8.74.
   2.   Automatic Rate Increase: Beginning the 1st day of January, 2022, on the
first billing period of each calendar year for the next five (5) calendar years
after the adoption of this chapter, the Bulk Water Rate shall be increased on
an annual basis in accordance with the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage
Earners and Clerical Workers (1967 = 100) for All Items of All Cities, issued
by the United States Department of Labor (hereinafter referred to as the "CPI")
for that year. If the adjusted rates for any calendar year, as calculated by
the CPI, is lower than the rates for the prior year, then the rate shall not be
adjusted for that calendar year. Notwithstanding the foregoing, before any
automatic rate increase is imposed, the Village Board can vote to not adjust
the rate to the full calculated CPI for any calendar year. (Ord. 810-16, 1-4-
2016; amd. 2017 Code; Ord. 1027-2020, 5-18-2020; Ord. 8-5-2022)
8-2-8: BILLS FOR SERVICE; DELINQUENCIES:
A.   The water meters of the Village water system shall be read not later than
the twentieth (20th) day of each month by the Superintendent.
B.   The Superintendent shall provide the Village Treasurer with all water
meter readings not later than the twenty-first (21st) day of each month.
C.   The Village Treasurer shall prepare and mail (by regular U.S. mail) all
water service bills to the applicants’ addresses (as stated on the water
service applications) not later than the first (1st) day of each month.
D.   All water service bills shall be due and payable by the applicant not
later than the twentieth (20th) day of each month.
E.   If a water service bill is not paid by the applicant by the twenty-first
day of the month, the Village Treasurer shall assess a late fee, in the amount
of ten percent (10%) per month (with a minimum late fee of five dollars ($5.00)
per month), on any delinquency, to such applicant, and shall mail (by regular
U.S. mail) to the applicants’ addresses (as stated on the water service
applications) a final delinquency notice prior to disconnection (Form 3).
F.   If a water service bill is not paid by the applicant by the last day of
the month (or on the following business day if the last day of the month falls
on a Friday or a holiday) after mailing the final delinquency notice prior to
disconnection, then:
   1.   The Village Treasurer shall immediately inform the Board President, in
writing (Form 4) of the name and address of the applicant responsible for the
delinquent water service bill.
   2.   The Village Treasurer shall immediately issue a disconnect service
order (Form 5) to the Superintendent, and the Superintendent shall immediately
cause the disconnection of such applicant's water service. A lock will be
placed on the meter. In order to have the lock removed, the applicant shall
contact the Village Hall to have the service turned back on, after payment of
all past due fees and reconnection fees.
   3.   The Village Treasurer shall immediately apply the applicant's deposit
to the amount due and owing by the applicant as follows:
         a.   Ten percent (10%) late payment fee (with a minimum of five
dollars ($5.00) per month late fee);
         b.    Amount of delinquent water service bill; and,
         c.    Disconnection fee.
G.   The Village may pursue to enforce its collection and/or lien rights
applicable by Illinois law.
(Ord. 1078-2021, 10-1-2021)
8-2-9: WATER LEAK; SEWER RATE ADJUSTMENT:
A.   A Village water utility consumer may apply in writing to the Village for a
sewer rate adjustment for only a non-sewer affected water leak. For purposes of
this Section, "Non-Sewer Affected Leak" shall mean water loss from a water leak
that does not enter the Village sewer system. Making such a request does not
extend the period for payment of the water and/or sewer bill. Requests for
adjustments on delinquent accounts will not be acted upon until paid in full.
B.   A sewer rate adjustment is permitted once in a twelve (12) month period
and can only be applied to one (1) billing period. There will be no adjustment
in any amount billed for water usage. To be eligible for this sewer rate
adjustment the following must apply:
   1.   The affected water line, plumbing fixture, or pipe must be owned by or
be subject to the exclusive control of the consumer; and,
   2.   The increase of water usage for which an adjustment is sought must be
due to a verifiable qualifies as a Non-Sewer Affected Water Leak on the
consumer's side of the water meter or the consumer's residence or structure;
and,
   3.   The water usage sought for which a sewer rate adjustment is sought must
exceed two (2) times the consumer's highest usage in any single billing period
during the twelve (12) months prior to the billing period sought for sewer rate
adjustment; and,
   4.   The consumer must apply for a sewer rate adjustment within thirty (30)
days of the Village's issuance of the water and sewer bill sought for
adjustment; and,
   5.   The consumer must provide proof that the affected water line has been
repaired, such as photos of repair or a receipt from a licensed plumber.
C.   Following a request for a water leak sewer rate adjustment, the Village
Clerk, or his/her designee, shall review the request and determine whether or
not to approve a water leak sewer rate adjustment. In order to make a proper
determination, Village staff shall be entitled to access, inspect, and approve
the consumer's water line repair prior to granting a water leak sewer rate
adjustment.
D.   If approved, the Village shall make a sewer rate adjustment by issuing a
credit to the consumer's account. The adjustment shall not exceed the total
sewer usage for the billing period sought for adjustment minus the consumer's
average sewer usage. For purposes of this subsection, the "average sewer usage"
shall be computed by determining the average sewer bill during the preceding
twelve (12) month period. For consumers who have been receiving service for
less than twelve (12) months, the average sewer usage shall be based on average
usage during the months of service.
(Ord. 1188-2025, 3-3-2025)
ARTICLE A. WATER USERS OUTSIDE VILLAGE LIMITS
SECTION:
8-2A-1: Service Agreement Required; Waivers
8-2A-2: User Rates
8-2A-3: Water Tap Fee And Deposit
8-2A-4: Village Powers, Responsibilities And Nonliability
8-2A-5: User Responsibilities; Damage To System; Cross Connection Control
8-2A-6: Extension Of Mains
8-2A-7: Change In Occupancy
8-2A-1: SERVICE AGREEMENT REQUIRED; WAIVERS:
A.   All persons located outside the Village limits desiring to connect to, or
otherwise be a customer of, the waterworks system of the Village after the
effective date hereof shall, prior to being connected to said system, execute a
certain water service agreement in that form on file in the Village and hereby
incorporated by reference as though fully stated herein. The Village Clerk and
the Village President are hereby authorized to execute said water service
agreement on behalf of the Village. Said water service agreement shall be
recorded in the Office of the Effingham County Recorder upon execution. (Ord.
438, 6-1-1998; amd. 2017 Code)
B.   The Village Board may, by resolution passed by the affirmative vote of
three-fourths (3/4) of the members of the Village Board then holding office,
waive all or a portion of the requirements contained in the Water Service
Agreement. (Ord. 438, 6-1-1998)
8-2A-2: USER RATES:
A.   Rates Established: The following rates are hereby imposed for the use of
water from the Village system for customers living outside the incorporated
limits of the Village: (Ord. 810-16, 1-4-2016; amd. 2017 Code)
   1.   The minimum monthly water service fee per customer is eighteen dollars
($18.00) (includes the first 1,500 gallons).
   2.   The rate per one thousand (1,000) gallons used per month after the
first one thousand five hundred (1,500) gallons is three dollars forty cents
($3.40).
B.   Automatic Rate Increase: Beginning January 1, 2017, on the first billing
period of each calendar year for the next five (5) calendar years after the
effective date hereof, both the minimum monthly rate and the rate established
for each one thousand (1,000) gallons used per month after the first one
thousand five hundred (1,500) gallons shall be increased on an annual basis in
accordance with the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical
Workers (1967 = 100) for All Items of All Cities, issued by the United States
Department of Labor (hereinafter referred to as the "CPI") for that year. If
the adjusted rates for any calendar year, as calculated by the CPI, is lower
than the rates for the prior year, then the rates shall not be adjusted for
that calendar year. (Ord. 810-16, 1-4-2016)
8-2A-3: WATER TAP FEE AND DEPOSIT:
A.   There shall be tap-on fee of three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) for
installation of standard service to each residential or commercial structure
located on the property in which an application for service has been filed.
Installation of a non-standard service may result in a higher tap-on fee. (Ord.
437, 6-1-1998)
B.   In addition to the above charges, a deposit of one hundred dollars
($100.00) shall be made by the user, if the user is a renter, to guarantee
payment of water bills. The deposit shall be returned to the user without
interest upon termination of water service and all accounts of that user being
paid. (Ord. 437, 6-1-1998; amd. 2017 Code)
8-2A-4: VILLAGE POWERS, RESPONSIBILITIES AND NONLIABILITY:
A.   Ownership, Installation And Maintenance: The Village shall install, own
and maintain the complete water system, water mains, and service lines to the
property lines or a mutually agreed upon point subject to the Village Board's
determination that a particular service is economically feasible to install.
The Village shall furnish, install and maintain a meter and appurtenances
including a shutoff valve. The shutoff valve shall be installed on the user's
property line or such other point determined by a duly authorized
representative of the Village. The meter may be located near the shutoff valve
or within the users premises as determined by the Village representative. The
meter and shutoff valve must be located at a point where it is readily
accessible.
B.   Refusal Of Service: The Village may at any time refuse additional service
(s) to any applicant if, in the judgment of the Village Board, the capacity of
the system will not permit such use or is not economically feasible. The
Village may refuse to extend water service when, in its discretion, such
extension is determined to not be economically feasible.
C.   Nonliability: All water service supplied by the Village shall be upon the
express condition that the Village shall not be liable nor shall any claim be
made against it for damages or injury caused by reason of shutting off water
for repair, relocation, or expansion of any part of the system, or failure of
any part of the system or for concentration of water for such purposes as
firefighting or restricted use of water.
D.   Village Use Of User's Water: The Village shall reserve the right to use
the water from the user's facilities at any time deemed necessary. No charge
shall be made by the user for the use of his facilities, and no charge shall be
made by the Village for the water used by the Village. (Ord. 437, 6-1-1998)
8-2A-5: USER RESPONSIBILITIES; DAMAGE TO SYSTEM; CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL:
A.   Installing And Maintaining Service Lines: The user shall be responsible
for installation and maintenance of service lines between the curb stop and the
residence or business. Such service lines must be at least three-fourths inch
(3/4") in diameter and must be installed at a minimum depth of thirty six
inches (36"). Service lines must have a minimum working pressure rating of one
hundred sixty (160) psi and must be constructed of one (1) of the following
types of materials: copper (Type K), polyvinyl chloride (PVC), polyethylene or
polybutylene. Service lines shall not be covered until they are inspected and
approved by a duly authorized Village representative. The user shall not
connect any service line or any plumbing connected with the service line to any
other water source. The service line must meet any requirements of the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency.
B.   Authorize Location Of Meter: The user shall permit the meter to be located
upon his property.
C.   Easements: The user shall convey to the Village, upon request, such
easements and rights-of-way as necessary to the Village and allow access for
the purposes of construction, repair, maintenance, meter reading, relocation or
expansion of the water system. The necessity shall be determined by the Village
Board. (Ord. 437, 6-1-1998)
D.   Damage To Village Property: No user shall tamper, adjust, damage, or in
any manner interfere with the components or operation of the water system owned
by the Village. The shutoff valve shall be opened only by a duly authorized
representative of the Village. Penalty for tampering, damaging, adjusting, or
in any manner interfering with the components or operation of the system shall
be seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), payable to the Village. If the
penalty is not paid within thirty (30) days after the amount is determined, the
Village shall discontinue the water service. In addition to the penalty, the
user responsible shall reimburse the Village for the actual cost of repairing
any damage arising from the user's act. Users shall report any known evidence
of tampering, adjusting, damaging, or interference with operation of the
system, owned by the Village, to the Village President. Any malicious act or
damage to the system that is not appropriately punishable by this subsection
shall be prosecuted through a court of law. (Ord. 437, 6-1-1998; amd. 2017
Code)
E.   Specified Uses Of Water: Water purchased from the Village may be used for
ordinary domestic, industrial or farm use upon the premises of the user,
provided:
   1.   No user shall resell or permit the resale of water purchased from the
Village.
   2.   Each dwelling, apartment, business, and farm located outside and
separate from a single-family living unit is a separate unit. The user must
make application for service for each unit, and each unit shall have a separate
cutoff valve, meter and service line, and the user shall pay the minimum
monthly rate and other rates and fees herein established for each unit. There
shall be only one (1) water service per living unit.
F.   Cross-Connections:
   1.   Definitions: For the purpose of this subsection, the following
definitions shall apply:
   BACKFLOW: Water of questionable quality, wastes or other contaminants
entering a public water supply system due to a reversal of flow.
   CROSS-CONNECTION: A connection or arrangement of piping or appurtenance
through which a backflow could occur.
   SAFE AIR GAP: The minimum distance of a water inlet or opening above the
maximum high water level or overflow rim in a fixture, device or container to
which public water is furnished which shall be at least two (2) times the
inside diameter of the water inlet pipe; but shall not be less than one inch
(1") and need not be more than twelve inches (12").
   SECONDARY WATER SUPPLY: A water supply system maintained in addition to a
public water supply including, but not limited to, water systems from ground or
surface sources not meeting the requirements of Act 98 of the Public Acts of
1913, as amended, being sections 325.201 to 325.214 of the Compiled Laws of
1948, or water from a public water supply which in any way has been treated,
processed or exposed to any possible contaminant or stored in other than an
approved storage facility.
   SUBMERGED INLET: A water pipe or extension thereto from a public water
supply terminating in a tank, vessel, fixture or appliance which may contain
water of questionable quality, wastes or other contaminants and which is
unprotected against backflow.
   WATER UTILITY: The Village.
   2.   Cross-Connections Prohibited: Cross-connection of public water supply
systems and any other water supply system or source including, but not limited
to, the following are prohibited:
      a.   Between a public water supply system and a secondary water supply.
      b.   By submerged inlet.
      c.   Between a lawn sprinkler system and the public water system.
      d.   Between a public water supply and piping which contains sanitary
waste or a chemical contaminant.
      e.   Between a public water supply system and piping immersed in a tank
or vessel which may contain a contaminant.
   3.   Cross-Connection Control Program: The water utility shall develop a
comprehensive control program for the elimination and prevention of all cross-
connections and removal of all existing cross-connections and prevention of all
future cross- connections.
   4.   Corrections And Protection Devices: Any user of the water utility water
shall obtain written approval from the water utility of any proposed corrective
action or protective device before using or installing it. The total time
allowed for completion of the necessary corrections shall be contingent upon
the degree of hazard involved and includes the time required to obtain and
install equipment. If the cross- connection has not been removed within the
time as hereinafter specified, the water utility shall physically separate the
water system from the on site piping system in such manner that the two (2)
systems cannot be connected by any unauthorized person.
   5.   Piping Identification: When a secondary water source is used in
addition to the water supply, exposed water utility water and secondary water
piping shall be identified by distinguishing colors or tags and so maintained
that each pipe may be traced readily in its entirety. It will be necessary to
protect the water utility water supply at the service connection in a manner
acceptable to the water utility.
   6.   Private Water Storage Tanks: A private water storage tank supplied from
the water utility water supply system shall be deemed a secondary water supply
unless it is designed and approved for potable water usage.
   7.   Elimination Of Existing Cross-Connections: Within one (1) year from the
effective date hereof, all existing cross- connections to the water utility
water supply system shall be eliminated. The expense of such elimination shall
be that of the owner of the property on which such cross-connection exists.
   8.   Inspections: The water utility or any representative thereof shall have
the authority to inspect any premises to determine the presence of any existing
cross-connection and to order the elimination of such cross-connection.
   9.   Violations; Disconnection Of Water Service: The water utility shall
discontinue water service after a reasonable notice to any person owning any
property where a cross- connection in violation of this subsection F exists or
where the user refuses to allow an inspection to determine the presence of a
cross-connection. The water utility may take such other precautionary measures
as necessary to eliminate any danger of the contamination of the water utility
water supply system. Water service to such property shall not be restored until
such cross-connection has been eliminated. (Ord. 437, 6-1-1998)
8-2A-6: EXTENSION OF MAINS:
A.   Determination Of Necessity: The Village Board shall first determine if an
extension of a water main is economically feasible based on the estimated cost
of the extension and the number of existing potential users that will use water
along the extension. If the extension is economically feasible, then the
Village may install and pay the cost of the extension at the discretion of the
Village Board. If the Village elects not to pay the cost of extending the water
main, then the person or persons desiring water service shall install the
extension at their own personal expense upon written consent by the Village
Board.
B.   Extension Installed By Other Than Village:
   1.   The Village must approve all plans and specifications for any
construction of such extensions.
   2.   Before any extensions are installed, the plans and specifications must
be reviewed and approved by the State of Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency.
   3.   Ownership, rights-of-way, and title must be conveyed to the Village for
all extensions installed by anyone other than the Village. The Village shall
accept maintenance responsibility upon the expiration of one (1) year
thereafter.
   4.   No extension will be permitted if, in the opinion of the Village Board,
the system does not have the necessary capacity to serve the proposed
extension.
   5.   The Village shall inspect the extension and approve same before the
excavation is backfilled. (Ord. 437, 6-1-1998)
8-2A-7: CHANGE IN OCCUPANCY:
A.   Notice To Village: Any user requesting a termination of service shall give
written notice to the Village ten (10) days prior to the time such termination
of service is desired. The meter shall be read by the Village, and the user
will be billed.
B.   Responsibility For Payment Of Services Consumed: Responsibility for
payment for water consumed prior to the date of termination shall be with the
property owners as well as the user. (Ord. 437, 6-1-1998)
C.   No Charge For Change: There shall be no charge for transferring the water
service to the subsequent user; however, the standard deposit shall be required
for users that are renters. (Ord. 437, 6-1-1998; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER SYSTEM
ARTICLE A. SEWER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-3A-1: Definitions
8-3A-2: Use Of Public Sewers Required
8-3A-3: Building Sewers And Connections
8-3A-4: Use Of The Sanitary Sewer System
8-3A-4-1: Discharges Into System
8-3A-4-2: Interceptors
8-3A-4-3: Preliminary Treatment
8-3A-4-4: Control Manhole
8-3A-4-5: Measurements, Tests And Analyses
8-3A-4-6: Special Agreements
8-3A-5: Prohibited Discharges Into Stormwater Drains
8-3A-6: Tampering With, Damage To System
8-3A-7: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
8-3A-8: Access To Records
8-3A-9: Violations; Penalties
8-3A-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this article shall be as follows:
   BOD (Denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C), expressed in parts per
million by weight or milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer that
begins five feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food,
and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL USER: Any nongovernmental user of the publicly owned treatment
works identified in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, Office
of Management and Budget, as amended and supplemented, under the following
divisions:
   A.   Division A - Agriculture, Forestry, and Fishing.
   B.   Division B - Mining.
   C.   Division D - Manufacturing.
   D.   Division E - Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and Sanitary
Services.
   E.   Division I - Services.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The liquid wastes from industrial processes as distinct
from sanitary sewage.
   INSTITUTIONAL USER: Any school, hospital, nursing home, or shelter care home
using the treatment works.
   NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface water or groundwater.
   ppm: Parts per million.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER: An interceptor or lateral sewer tributary to the sewage
treatment works.
   RESIDENTIAL OR COMMERCIAL USER: Any user of the treatment works not
classified as an industrial user or institutional user as defined in this
section.
   SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which stormwater,
surface water, and groundwater are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE: A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL; MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
   SUPERINTENDENT: The Superintendent or Manager of the Village Sewage Works,
or his authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering with procedures set forth in "Standard Methods".
   VILLAGE: The Village of Dieterich, and any reference to "within the Village"
shall mean all territory within the perimeter of the Village limit boundaries.
   WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently. (Ord. 323, 9-12-1975; amd. Ord. 329, 2-2-1976)
8-3A-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
A.   Discharge Of Human And Animal Wastes: It shall be unlawful for any person
to place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in an insanitary manner upon
public or private property within the Village, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the Village, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other
objectionable waste.
B.   Discharge To Natural Outlets: It shall be unlawful to discharge to any
natural outlet within the Village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
Village, any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, or other polluted waters,
except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with this
article.
C.   Private Systems: Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to
construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other
facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage. (Ord. 323, 9-12-1975)
D.   Connection To Sewer System Required: The owner of all dwellings,
buildings, or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or
other human purpose, situated within the Village and abutting on any street,
alley or right- of-way in which there is now located or may in the future be
located a public sanitary sewer owned by the Village is hereby required at his
expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such
facilities with the proper public sewer of the Village in accordance with the
provisions of this article, within ninety (90) days after the date of official
notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is within one hundred feet
(100') of the property line. (Ord. 323, 9-12-1975; amd. 2017 Code)
8-3A-3: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
A.   Permit To Connect; Tap On Fee:
   1.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the
Superintendent.
   2.   Classes Of Permits; Applications: There shall be the following classes
of building sewer permits: a) for residential and commercial service; and b)
for service to establishments producing industrial wastes. In either case, the
owner or his agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the
Village. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the Superintendent.
   3.   Tap On Fee: A tap on fee of three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) shall
be paid to the Village Treasurer at the time the application is filed. Said fee
shall apply after the system is placed in operation.
B.   Separate Building Sewers: A separate and independent building sewer shall
be provided for every building; except, where one building stands at the rear
of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
C.   Use Of Existing Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in connection with
new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test by the
Superintendent, to meet all requirements of this article.
D.   Installation And Connection Requirements And Specifications:
   1.   The building sewer shall be PVC pipe, ASTM Specification A74-42 or
equal; vitrified clay sewer pipe, ASTM Specification C-13-59T or equal; or
other suitable material approved by the Superintendent. Joints shall be tight
and waterproof.
   2.   a. All joints and connections shall be gastight and watertight.
      b.   Other jointing materials and methods may be used only by approval of
the Superintendent.
   3.   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the
approval of the Superintendent, but in no event shall the diameter be less than
four inches (4"). The slope of such four inch (4") pipe shall be not less than
one-half inch (1/2") per foot. For larger sizes of pipe, the minimum slopes
shall be according to all State and local regulations.
   4.   No basement, half basement or any other portion of a building having a
floor elevation beneath the ground surface over the public sewer at the point
of connection may be connected into the public sewer by gravity. In areas where
the ground line over the public sewer is to be altered, the proposed final
ground elevation shall be used. The maximum depth to the top of the building
sewer shall be forty two inches (42") below finished grade at the point where
it enters such building. No building sewer shall be laid parallel to any
bearing wall if within three feet (3') of any said wall, which might thereby be
weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. The
building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade and in straight alignment insofar
as possible. Changes in direction or grade shall be allowed only when a proper
manhole is constructed at the location of the change.
   5.   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain shall
be lifted by approved artificial means, with said means to be approved by the
Village Engineer, and discharged to the building sewer.
   6.   a. All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the Superintendent. Pipe
laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM Specification
C12-58-T; except, that no backfill shall be placed until the work has been
inspected.
      b.   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the Village and any
other governmental agency affected.
   7.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the Y-branch, if such branch is available, at a suitable location. If
the public sewer is twelve inches (12") in diameter or less and no properly
located Y-branch is available, the owner shall, at his expense, install a Y-
branch in the public sewer at the location specified by the Superintendent.
Where the public sewer is greater than twelve inches (12") in diameter, and no
properly located Y-branch is available, a neat hole may be cut into the public
sewer to receive the building sewer, with entry in the downstream direction at
an angle of about forty five degrees (45°). A forty five degree (45°) ell may
be used to make such connection, with the spigot end cut so as not to extend
past the inner surface of the public sewer. The invert of the building sewer at
the point of connection shall be at the same or at a higher elevation than the
invert of the public sewer, but no higher than a point one-half (1/2) the
vertical distance between the invert and the crown of the sewer. A smooth, neat
joint shall be made and the connection made secure and watertight by encasement
in concrete. Special fittings may be used for the connection only when approved
by the Superintendent. Manholes shall be constructed at any junction of a ten
inch (10") diameter line or larger into a public sewer.
   8.   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sewer.
E.   Inspections: The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or his representative.
F.   Liability For Costs And Expenses: All costs and expenses incident to the
installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
The owner shall indemnify the Village from any loss or damage that may directly
or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer and the
maintenance of said sewer. (Ord. 902-18, 6-18-2018)
8-3A-4: USE OF THE SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM:
8-3A-4-1: DISCHARGES INTO SYSTEM:
A.   Stormwater, Surface Waters, Etc.: No person shall discharge, or cause to
be discharged, any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff,
subsurface drainage, cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters into
any sanitary sewer.
B.   Prohibited Discharges: Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall
discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following described waters or
wastes to any public sewer:
   1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred eighty
degrees Fahrenheit (180°F).
   2.   Any water or waste which may contain more than one hundred (100) parts
per million, by weight, of fat, oil or grease.
   3.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
   4.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded.
   5.   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works.
   6.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 4.0 or higher than 9.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
   7.   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in the receiving
waters of the sewage treatment plant.
   8.   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character and
quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such materials
at the sewage treatment plant.
   9.   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a public
nuisance. (Ord. 323, 9-12-1975)
   10.   Any of the following additional contaminants:
Pollutant Maximum Concentration (ppm)
Pollutant             Maximum Concentration (ppm)
Aluminum              800.00
Cadmium               0.15
Chlorides             7,000.0
Chromium (hexavalent) 0.0
Copper                1.0
Cyanide               0.0
Fluorides             15.0
Nickel                1.0
Phenols               0.3
Zinc                  0.5
 
(Ord. 323, 9-12-1975; amd. Ord. 329, 2-2-1976; 2017 Code)
C.   Restricted Discharges:
   1.   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes having:
      a.   A five (5) day biochemical oxygen demand greater than three hundred
(300) parts per million by weight; or
      b.   Containing more than three hundred fifty (350) parts per million by
weight of suspended solids; or
      c.   Containing any quantity of substances having the characteristics
described in subsection B of this section; or
      d.   Having an average daily flow greater than ten percent (10%) of the
average daily sewage flow of eighty thousand (80,000) gallons;
shall be subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent.
   2.   Where necessary, in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner shall
provide, at his expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary to:
      a.   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to three hundred (300) parts
per million and the suspended solids to three hundred fifty (350) parts per
million by weight; or
      b.   Reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents to within the
maximum limits provided in subsection B of this section; or
      c.   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes. (Ord. 323, 9-12-1975)
   3.   Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the Superintendent and the Village Engineer, and no construction of such
facilities shall be commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing.
(Ord. 323, 9-12-1975; amd. 2017 Code)
8-3A-4-2: INTERCEPTORS:
A.   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors or retainers shall be provided when, in
the opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling
of the liquid wastes containing grease, oils, or sand in excessive amounts, or
any flammable wastes, or other harmful ingredients; except, that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units.
B.   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
Superintendent and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection.
C.   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious materials
capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall
be of substantial construction, watertight, and equipped with easily removable
covers which, when bolted in place, shall be gastight and watertight.
D.   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be maintained
by the owner, at his expense, in continuously efficient operation at all times.
(Ord. 323, 9-12-1975)
8-3A-4-3: PRELIMINARY TREATMENT:
Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or wastes,
they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation
by the owner at his expense. (Ord. 323, 9-12-1975)
8-3A-4-4: CONTROL MANHOLE:
When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property served by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense,
and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible to the
Superintendent at all times. (Ord. 323, 9-12-1975)
8-3A-4-5: MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES:
All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in subsections
 8-3A-4-1B and C of this article shall be determined in accordance with
"Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Sewage", or a method
approved by the Superintendent, and shall be determined at the control manhole
provided for in section
8-3A-4-4 of this article, or upon suitable samples taken at said control
manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected, provided the
Superintendent shall be permitted to take samples within the premises of the
user, including lagoons, ponds and other places. (Ord. 323, 9-12-1975)
8-3A-4-6: SPECIAL AGREEMENTS:
No statement contained in this section
8-3A-4 shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement
between the Village and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of
unusual strength or character may be accepted by the Village for treatment,
subject to a surcharge or payment therefor by the industrial concern determined
as follows:
A.   For all BOD5 concentrations exceeding the normal concentration of BOD5
(204 milligrams per liter), the surcharge shall be one cent ($0.01) per one
thousand (1,000) gallons of wastewater discharge per month times the difference
between the concentration of BOD in the discharged water and the normal
concentration of BOD. This charge shall be made in addition to the regular
monthly wastewater service charge.
B.   For all SS concentrations exceeding the normal concentration of SS (264
milligrams per liter), the surcharge shall be one cent ($0.01) per one thousand
(1,000) gallons of wastewater discharged per month times the difference between
the water and the normal concentration of SS. This charge shall be made in
addition to the regular monthly wastewater service charge. (Ord. 329, 2-2-1976)
8-3A-5: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES INTO STORMWATER DRAINS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to connect or cause
to be connected any drain carrying, or to carry, any toilet, sink, septic tank,
cesspool, or industrial waste, or any fixture or device discharging polluting
substances to any stormwater drain in the Village. (Ord. 294, 4-7-1969; amd.
2017 Code)
8-3A-6: TAMPERING WITH, DAMAGE TO SYSTEM:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person violating
this section shall be subject to immediate arrest under the charge of
disorderly conduct. (Ord. 323, 9-12-1975)
8-3A-7: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the Village, bearing
proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter upon all
properties subject to this article for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing, in accordance with the provisions of this
article. (Ord. 323, 9-12-1975)
8-3A-8: ACCESS TO RECORDS:
The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency or its authorized representative
shall have access to any books, documents, papers and records of the Village
which are applicable to the Village system of user charges or industrial cost
recovery for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts and
transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of the special and
general conditions to any State grant. (Ord. 329, 2-2-1976)
8-3A-9: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
A.   Notice Of Violation: Any person found to be violating any provision of
this article, except section
8-3A-6 of this article, shall be served by the Village with written notice
stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for
the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of
time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations. (Ord. 323, 9-12-
1975)
B.   Misdemeanor Violation; Penalty: Any person who shall continue any
violation beyond the time limit provided in subsection A of this section shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an
amount not exceeding seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation.
Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate
offense. (Ord. 323, 9-12-1975; amd. 2017 Code)
C.   Liability For Expenses And Damages: Any person violating any of the
provisions of this article shall become liable to the Village for any expense,
loss or damage occasioned the Village by reason of such violation, whether the
same was caused before or after notice.
D.   Disconnection Of Service: In case any violation of the provisions of this
article continues beyond the time given the user under subsection A of this
section, the Superintendent may cut off the user's connection into the public
sewer. (Ord. 323, 9-12-1975)
ARTICLE B. SEWER RATES AND CHARGES; MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-3B-1: Connection Fees
8-3B-2: Village Sewer Lines
8-3B-3: Sewer Taps
8-3B-4: Access To Private Property By Village
8-3B-5: Sewer Rates
8-3B-1: CONNECTION FEES:
A.   Established: The following fees shall be imposed for sewer service
connection services:
   1.   Sewer connection fee for existing service: No fee.
   2.   Reconnection fee: Twenty five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 742-13, 8-5-2013)
   3.   New service fee: A cost of three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00),
however, if costs to install new service is in excess of three hundred fifty
dollars ($350.00), then the applicant/customer shall be responsible for all
costs and expenses for materials and labor to install new service. (Ord. 742-
13, 8-5-2013; amd. 2017 Code)
B.   Collection And Disposition Of Fees: The fees stated in subsection A of
this section shall be collected by the Village Treasurer who shall deposit all
collected fees in the appropriate account. The Superintendent shall not perform
a connect, disconnect, or reconnect or provide for new sewer service to any
premises or applicant without the written direction of the Village Treasurer.
(Ord. 742-13, 8-5-2013)
8-3B-2: VILLAGE SEWER LINES:
A.   No Village sewer line shall be located on private property unless
easements are first obtained.
B.   No Village sewer line shall be improved, repaired or extended without the
approval of the Board of Trustees, except in the event of a bona fide
emergency. In the event of a bona fide emergency, the President shall have the
authority to improve, repair, or extend a Village sewer line.
C.   The Village shall not accept or assume responsibility for lines improved,
repaired or extended in violation of this article. The Village shall not accept
or assume responsibility for that portion of a sewer service line located on
the applicant's side of the sewer main. (Ord. 742-13, 8-5-2013)
8-3B-3: SEWER TAPS:
A.   No connection or tap shall be made to a Village sewer line unless such
connection or tap is made in a manner consistent with this article.
B.   Not more than one (1) building or structure shall be served by any single
connection or tap to the Village sewer system. (Ord. 742-13, 8-5-2013)
8-3B-4: ACCESS TO PRIVATE PROPERTY BY VILLAGE:
Village officials and employees shall have the right of ingress and egress at
reasonable times over, in, under and across the property of an applicant for
purposes of reading water meters and testing, operating, repairing, and
maintaining the Village sewer system. (Ord. 742-13, 8-5-2013)
8-3B-5: SEWER RATES:
The following rates are hereby imposed for sewer services:
A.   Minimum Monthly Sewer Service Fee Per Customer (Includes first one
thousand five hundred (1,500) gallons): $11.70.
B.   Rate Per one thousand (1,000) Gallons Used Per Month After First one
thousand five hundred (1,500) Gallons: $2.79.
C.   Automatic Rate Increase: Beginning the 1st day of January, 2025, on the
first billing period of each calendar year for the next three (3) calendar
years after the adoption of this Ordinance, both the Minimum Monthly rate and
the rate established for each 1,000 Gallons used per month after the First
1,500 Gallons shall be increased on an annual basis in accordance with the
Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (1967 = 100)
for All Items of All Cities, issued by the United States Department of Labor
(hereinafter referred to as the “CPI”) for that year. If the adjusted rates for
any calendar year, as calculated by the CPI, are lower than the rates for the
prior year, then the rates shall not be adjusted for that calendar year.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, before any automatic rate increase is imposed,
the Village Board can vote to not adjust the rate to the full calculated CPI
for any calendar year. (Ord. 742-13, 8-5-2013; amd. Ord. 841-17, 3-6-2017; Ord.
1155-2024, 2-5-2024)
CHAPTER 4
GARBAGE SERVICE
SECTION:
8-4-1: Garbage Service Fees
8-4-2: Bills For Service; Delinquencies
8-4-1: GARBAGE SERVICE FEES:
   A.   The following fees shall be imposed for garbage service:
 
Effective Date:                   2/1/2023 2/1/2024 2/1/2025 2/1/2026 2/1/2027
Monthly fee                       $14.50   $14.92   $15.35   $15.80   $16.26
Extra toter fee (if customer
requests contractor provide an    $8.00    $8.00    $8.00    $8.00    $8.00
additional tote for collection of
garbage)
 
   B.   The fees stated above shall be collected by the Village Treasurer. The
Village Treasurer shall deposit all collected fees in the appropriate account.
(Ord. 870-17, 11-20-2017; amd. Ord. 1128-2023, 1-16-2023)
8-4-2: BILLS FOR SERVICE; DELINQUENCIES:
Payment for garbage services shall be made in the manner as prescribed in
section
 8-2-8 of this title. (Ord. 742-13, 8-5-2013)
TITLE 9
BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING PERMITS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Definitions
9-1-2: Permit Required; Exemptions
9-1-3: Application For Permit; Fee
9-1-4: Issuance Or Denial Of Permit; Compliance Required
9-1-5: Amendments To Application
9-1-6: Posting Permit
9-1-7: JULIE To Be Notified
9-1-8: Commencement Of Construction
9-1-9: Revocation Of Permit
9-1-10: Violations; Penalties
9-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   ACCESSORY BUILDING: A subordinate building, or a portion of the main
building, the use of which is incidental to that of the main building or to the
main use of the premises. For example, a detached garage is an accessory
building to a residence.
   BUILDING: Any structure designed or intended to provide support, enclosure,
shelter, or protection of persons, animals, chattels, or property. The word
building shall include a mobile, modular, manufactured or pre-fabricated home.
   CONSTRUCTED: Set, erect, build, raise, or move into place.
   MANUFACTURED HOME OR MOBILE HOME: A structure, designed for permanent
habitation and so constructed so as to permit its transportation on wheels,
temporarily or permanently attached to its frame, and is designated for use
with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION: A closed perimeter formation consisting of materials
such as concrete, mortared concrete block, or mortared brick extending into the
ground below the frost line which shall include, but not necessarily be limited
to, cellars, basements, or crawl spaces, but does not exclude the use of piers.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, limited partnership,
organization, corporation, limited liability company, association,
proprietorship or other legal entity. The term shall also include an executor,
administrator, trustee, receiver or other representative appointed according to
law. Whenever the word "person" appears in any section of this chapter
prescribing a penalty or fine, as to partnerships or associations, the word
shall include the partners or members thereof, and as to corporations or
limited liability companies, shall include the officers, agents or members
thereof who are responsible for any violation of this chapter.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any substantial change or the addition of square
footage in the roof or the exterior walls of a building or structure.
   STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
permanent location on or in the ground or attached to something having
permanent location on or in the ground including, but not limited to, a fence,
swimming pool, porch, gazebo, and/or deck.
   SWIMMING POOL: A receptacle for water, or artificial basin of water, either
aboveground, belowground, or partly aboveground and partly belowground, and
having a depth at any point in excess of two feet (2') or a surface area
exceeding one hundred fifty (150) square feet, which is intended for the use of
persons for the purpose of immersion, partial immersion, or swimming. (Ord.
811-16, 1-4-2016; amd. 2017 Code)
9-1-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:
A.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any
person:
   1.   To construct, place, or erect, or to commence the construction,
placement, or erection, of a new building, accessory structure, or structure,
or part thereof, within the corporate limits of the Village without first
obtaining a written building permit from the Village;
   2.   To construct, place, erect, alter, remove, rebuild, structurally alter,
add to, or relocate, or to commence the construction, placement, erection,
alteration, removal, rebuilding, structural alteration, addition, or
relocation, of any building, accessory structure, or structure, or part
thereof, without first obtaining a written building permit from the Village; or
   3.   To set, erect, build, raise, move into place, or otherwise construct,
or commence the setting, erection, building, raising, moving into place, or
construction, of a mobile home, manufactured home, modular home, prefabricated
home, or any similar structure for use for permanent habitation on an
individual lot or lots within the corporate limits of the Village without first
obtaining a written building permit from the Village.
B.   The following activities are exempt from the application of subsection A
of this section, and no building permit shall be required for the following:
   1.   Routine maintenance or repair of buildings, accessory structures, or
structures such as painting, re-roofing, replacement siding, soffits, gutters,
replacement windows and shutters;
   2.   Installation of sidewalks or replacement sidewalks;
   3.   Construction of service connections to a Municipally owned and operated
utility; and
   4.   Placement of a mobile home on pads in a licensed mobile home park.
(Ord. 811-16, 1-4-2016; amd. 2017 Code)
9-1-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEE:
A.   An application for a building permit shall be submitted in such form as
the Village may prescribe from time to time. Such application shall be in
writing upon forms prepared and furnished by the Village. Each application for
a building permit shall be signed by the applicant and shall be filed with the
Village Clerk. In case the applicant is a partnership, all partners must sign
the application. In case the applicant is a limited partnership, all general
partners and any limited partner owning more than a five percent (5%) interest
in such limited partnership must sign the application. In case the applicant is
a corporation, all officers, directors and any stockholders owning more than
five percent (5%) of the stock of such corporation must sign the application
and indicate their official position. In case the applicant is a limited
liability company, all members owning more than five percent (5%) of the
interest of such company must sign the application and indicate their official
position. In case the applicant is a club or association, all officers and
directors shall sign the application. The application shall contain, at a
minimum, the following:
   1.   Full names and addresses of the applicant and/or the owner of the
subject property;
   2.   Drawing(s) of the proposed work to be completed, drawn to scale,
showing, when necessary, floor plans, sections, elevations, structural details,
computations, and stress diagrams, lot area to be used, building setback lines,
and utilities, if applicable, as the Chair of the Village Board of Zoning
Appeals and Planning, or his/her designee, may require;
   3.   The application shall also describe a legal description of the subject
property;
   4.   Any proposed work that requires a new or reconstructed entrance,
driveway, filed entrance, roadway, and/or access point onto Village, State,
County, or Township right-of-way shall include the location, dimensions, size
and type of entrance, driveway, filed entrance, roadway, and/or access point;
and
   5.   Any additional information and/or documentation as may be required by
the Chair of the Village Board of Zoning Appeals and Planning, or his/her
designee, to determine compliance with all applicable ordinances, laws, rules
and regulations of the Village.
B.   To partially defray expenses of administering this chapter, a
nonrefundable fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) shall be charged for each building
permit application filed, and said fee shall be paid to the Chair of the
Village Board of Zoning Appeals and Planning, or his/her designee. The
application fee shall be in addition to any fee charged by the Village Engineer
to review a site plan as may be required by the Village pursuant to this Code.
(Ord. 811-16, 1-4-2016; amd. 2017 Code)
9-1-4: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF PERMIT; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
Completed building permit applications, containing all required information
and/or documentation, shall be examined by the Chair of the Village Board of
Zoning Appeals and Planning, or his/her designee, within thirty (30) calendar
days after filing. If the application does not conform to the requirements of
all applicable ordinances, laws, rules and regulations of the Village, the
Chair of the Village Board of Zoning Appeals and Planning, or his/her designee,
shall reject such application in writing, stating the reasons therefor.
Furthermore, if the Chair of the Village Board of Zoning Appeals and Planning,
or his/her designee, requests additional information and/or documentation as
part of the permit application, and the applicant fails to provide said
information and/or documentation in a timely manner, the permit application
shall be rejected, and the applicant shall be required to resubmit a new
application for a building permit. If the Chair of the Village Board of Zoning
Appeals and Planning, or his/her designee, is satisfied the proposed work
conforms to the requirements of this chapter and all other applicable
ordinances, laws, rules and regulations, the Village Clerk shall issue a
building permit therefor. In all instances, it shall be the duty of the
applicant to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Chair of the Village Board
of Zoning Appeals and Planning, or his/her designee, in his/her sole
discretion, that the work proposed under the application shall be in full
compliance with the requirements of this chapter, as well all other applicable
ordinances, laws, rules and regulations of the Village, and all work performed
under a building permit issued by the Village shall strictly conform to the
approved application and plans. (Ord. 811-16, 1-4-2016; amd. 2017 Code)
9-1-5: AMENDMENTS TO APPLICATION:
Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the filing of amendments to a building
permit application or to a plan or other information accompanying the
application for a building permit at any time before the completion of the work
for which the permit was issued. Any amendment, however, shall be subject to
further and additional review that could result in additional requirements,
additional permit fees, or denial of the original building permit. If the
changes and/or additions to the original building permit warrant it, the
Village may require the filing of a new application and payment of a new
application fee. (Ord. 811-16, 1-4-2016; amd. 2017 Code)
9-1-6: POSTING PERMIT:
Any building permit issued shall be posted in plain view on the premises for
which said permit was issued, and shall remain until completion of the
construction, placement, erection, alteration, removal, rebuilding, structural
alteration, addition or relocation of any building, accessory structure, or
structure, or part thereof, authorized by the building permit. (Ord. 811-16, 1-
4-2016; amd. 2017 Code)
9-1-7: JULIE TO BE NOTIFIED:
All applicants for a building permit are expected to contact Joint Utility
Locating Information for Excavators (JULIE) prior to commencing any
construction, placement, erection, alteration, removal, rebuilding, structural
alteration, addition or relocation of any building, accessory structure, or
structure, or part thereof. (Ord. 811-16, 1-4-2016; amd. 2017 Code)
9-1-8: COMMENCEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION:
The construction, placement, erection, alteration, removal, rebuilding,
structural alteration, addition or relocation of any building, accessory
structure, or structure, or part thereof, authorized by a building permit shall
commence within three (3) months of the date of the issuance of the permit. A
permit under which work has not commenced within three (3) months of the date
of issuance shall expire, and a new permit in accordance with the regulations
of this chapter shall be secured before work is started on said building,
accessory structure, or structure. The construction, placement, erection,
alteration, removal, rebuilding, structural alteration, addition or relocation
of any building, accessory structure, or structure, or part thereof, authorized
by a building permit shall be completed within one year of the date of the
issuance of the permit. (Ord. 811-16, 1-4-2016; amd. 2017 Code)
9-1-9: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The Village may revoke a permit or approval issued in case it is determined
that there has been any false statement or misrepresentation as to a material
fact in the application or plans on which a building permit or approval was
based. Furthermore, any changes to the scope, size, or location of a building,
accessory structure, or structure, or any part thereof, without resubmitting an
application or an amendment to an application for the original building permit,
shall be considered a misrepresentation as to a material fact. Furthermore, a
permit may be revoked by the Village when any official, agent, or contractor of
the Village determines, from personal inspection or from competent evidence,
that the rules and regulations under which it has been issued are being
violated. (Ord. 811-16, 1-4-2016; amd. 2017 Code)
9-1-10: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
A.   Any person which violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses to comply
with any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be
deemed guilty of a civil ordinance violation and shall be fined not less than
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed to be
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
B.   In addition to any fine, the Village may seek injunctive and declaratory
relief directing the violator(s) to cure the violation, and the Village may
revoke any permit authorized and issued pursuant to this chapter.
C.   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
provision of this chapter by any officer, director, manager or other agent or
employee of any person shall be deemed and held to be the act of such person,
and the person shall be punishable in the same manner as if the act or omission
had been done or omitted by him personally.
D.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the Village may have for enforcement of this chapter.
Furthermore, nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the Village's
ability to correct and require compliance with matters inadvertently excluded
during any application and/or permit review process. (Ord. 811-16, 1-4-2016;
amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 2
LIFE SAFETY CODE
SECTION:
9-2-1: Adoption Of Code
9-2-1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
The Village hereby adopts the 2000 edition of the National Fire Protection
Association's Life Safety Code described in Attachment A on file in the
Village. (Res. 364-09, 1-5-2009; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 3
MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Definitions
9-3-2: Mobile Home Parks Prohibited
9-3-3: Mobile Homes
9-3-4: Violation; Penalties
9-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms, when used in this chapter, shall have the following
meanings:
   MOBILE HOME: A structure designed for permanent habitation and so
constructed as to permit its transport on wheels temporarily or permanently
attached to its frame from the place of its construction to the location or
subsequent locations at which it is intended to be a permanent habitation and
designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one (1) or
more persons.
   MOBILE HOME PARK: A tract of land or two (2) or more contiguous tracts or
lots of land, whether owned by one (1) or more persons or entities, which
contain sites with the necessary utilities for the installation of two (2) or
more independent mobile homes, or which otherwise is intended for the
installation of two (2) or more independent mobile homes, or which actually has
two (2) or more independent mobile homes installed thereon. (Ord. 431, 9-2-
1997)
9-3-2: MOBILE HOME PARKS PROHIBITED:
After the effective date hereof, it shall be unlawful to establish a mobile
home park within the corporate limits of the Village. (Ord. 431, 9-2-1997)
9-3-3: MOBILE HOMES:
A.   Permit Required; Scope: After the effective date hereof, mobile homes
shall not be placed, constructed, installed or otherwise located within the
corporate limits of the Village unless a permit is issued by the Village Board
of Trustees to the person or entity seeking to place or install a mobile home
allowing the placement and installation of a mobile home pursuant to
subsections B, C and D of this section. Said permit must be issued before
placement or installation activities may begin. This limitation shall apply
with equal force and effect to those mobile homes presently existing within the
corporate limits of the Village but which are moved subsequent to the effective
date hereof to a different location.
B.   Application For Permit; Fee: In order to receive a permit for the
placement and installation of a mobile home within the corporate limits of the
Village, the person or entity (applicant) seeking to place and install the
mobile home shall file with the Village Clerk a completed mobile home permit
application (permit application) and a two hundred dollar ($200.00)
nonrefundable permit application processing fee. The Village Clerk shall not
accept partially completed permit applications.
C.   Inspections; Approval Or Denial Of Permit: The Village Board of Trustees
may request the applicant to appear before the Village Board for additional
questioning. The Board of Trustees may inspect the mobile home and the lot. The
Board shall grant all permit applications which comply with subsection D1 of
this section and shall deny all permit applications which fail to comply with
the restrictions stated in subsection D1 of this section; provided, that:
   1.   The Board of Trustees shall notify the applicant of the grant or denial
of the permit application in writing served on the applicant by certified mail
within sixty (60) days of filing the permit application with the Village Clerk.
   2.   Said notice shall inform the applicant of the reason(s) for the grant
or denial of the permit application.
D.   Restrictions:
   1.   All mobile homes proposed for placement and installation pursuant to
subsections B and C of this section shall comply with the following
restrictions: (Ord. 431, 9-2-1997)
      a.   Lot Size: The proposed mobile home shall be placed and installed on
a lot of not less than five thousand (5,000) square feet. (Ord. 431, 9-2-1997;
amd. 2017 Code)
      b.   Age Of Mobile Home: The proposed mobile home shall not be over three
(3) years old. No mobile home that is older than three (3) years shall be
permitted to be placed and installed within the corporate limits of the
Village. (Ord. 431, 9-2-1997)
      c.   Setbacks From Lot Boundaries: The proposed mobile home shall be
placed and installed with the following minimum setbacks:
         (1)   Front yard: Twenty feet (20').
         (2)   Side yards: Ten feet (10') for each.
         (3)   Rear yard: Twenty feet (20'). (Ord. 431, 9-2-1997; amd. 2017
Code)
      d.   Placement On Concrete Pad: The proposed mobile home shall be placed
and installed on a concrete surface four inches (4") above ground level.
      e.   Off Street Parking: The lot for the proposed mobile home shall
provide off street parking for the applicant's vehicles. The parking area shall
be constructed of concrete with a suitable grade to provide for adequate
drainage. (Ord. 431, 9-2-1997)
      f.   Utilities: There shall be electric, water, sewer, and gas (if
needed) utility hookup service provided at the lot on which the proposed mobile
home is to be placed and installed. (Ord. 431, 9-2-1997; amd. 2017 Code)
      g.   Compliance With Federal, State And Local Laws: The proposed mobile
home and the lot on which the proposed mobile home is to be placed and
installed shall comply with all Federal, State, and local laws and regulations
including, but not limited to, the Village nuisance ordinance, as from time to
time amended.
      h.   Payment Of Processing Fee: A two hundred dollar ($200.00) permit
processing fee shall be paid, in advance, to the Village.
      i.   Permit Application: A completed permit application.
   2.   All mobile homes which are allowed to be placed and installed within
the corporate limits of the Village pursuant to this chapter shall, as of the
date of their placement and installation, comply with the following additional
restrictions:
      a.   Removal Of Wheels: All wheels on the mobile home shall be removed.
(Ord. 431, 9-2-1997)
      b.   Connection To Utilities: The mobile home shall be connected to the
Village electric, water, sewer, and gas (if needed) utilities. (Ord. 431, 9-2-
1997; amd. 2017 Code)
      c.   Single-Family Use Only: The mobile home shall only be used for
single-family residential purposes. A mobile home shall not be used for any
business purpose of any kind.
      d.   Underpinning Required: The mobile home shall be underpinned so as to
withstand a wind pressure of at least fifteen (15) pounds per square inch.
      e.   Compliance: The mobile home shall continue to comply with all
restrictions contained in subsection D1 of this section. (Ord. 431, 9-2-1997)
9-3-4: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
A.   Petty Offense Violation: Any violation of this chapter shall be a petty
offense.
B.   Village Ticket: For any violation of this chapter, the violator(s) shall
be ticketed by the law enforcement agency then serving the Village, and the
violator shall be given a notice to appear in the County Circuit Court. The
ticket shall be filed in said court and prosecuted by the Village Attorney.
(Ord. 431, 9-2-1997)
C.   Fine: Upon conviction, the violator(s) shall be fined seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each violation. Each day that this chapter is violated
shall constitute a separate and distinct violation for which the violator(s)
shall be fined. (Ord. 431, 9-2-1997; amd. 2017 Code)
D.   Remedy Of Violation: In addition to any fine, the Board of Trustees may
request the County Circuit Court to issue an order directing the violator(s) to
cure the violation within fifteen (15) days from the entry of such order, or
issue an order directing the removal of the mobile home from the corporate
limits of the Village within twenty (20) days from the entry of such order.
E.   Responsibility For Costs: Upon conviction, the Court shall order the
violator to pay all costs of enforcement, including attorney fees, of this
chapter incurred by the Village. (Ord. 431, 9-2-1997)
CHAPTER 4
DEVELOPMENT IN FLOODPLAIN AREAS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Purpose
9-4-2: Definitions
9-4-3: Base Flood Elevation
9-4-4: Duties Of The Village Clerk
9-4-5: Development Permit
9-4-6: Preventing Increased Flood Heights And Results Damages
9-4-7: Protecting Buildings
9-4-8: Subdivision Requirements
9-4-9: Public Health And Other Standards
9-4-10: Carrying Capacity And Notification
9-4-11: Variances
9-4-12:    Disclaimer Of Liability
9-4-13:    Penalty
9-4-14:    Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
9-4-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the Village of
Dieterich, Illinois, by the Illinois Municipal Code including, but not limited
to, 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8 and 5/11-31-2. The
purpose of this chapter is to maintain this village's eligibility in the
National Flood Insurance Program; to minimize potential losses due to periodic
flooding including loss of life, loss of property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare;
and to preserve and enhance the quality of surface waters, conserve economic
and natural values and provide for the wise utilization of water and related
land resources. This chapter is adopted in order to accomplish the following
purposes:
A.   To meet the requirements of 615 ILCS 5/18(g) Rivers, Lakes and Streams
Act;
B.   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage hazards
to others;
C.   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
D.   To protect human life and health from the hazards of flooding;
E.   To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare of
the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
F.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to public
facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
G.   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
H.   To comply with the rules and regulations of the national flood insurance
program codified as 44 CFR 59-79, as amended;
I.   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available by fulfilling the
requirements of the national flood insurance program, and
J.   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses and
floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve water
quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat, provide
recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits, and enhance community
and economic development.
(Ord. 1197-2024, 11-4-2024)
9-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, all words used in this chapter shall have
their common meanings. The word "shall" means the action is mandatory.
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are adopted:
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A non-habitable building, used only for parking of
vehicles or storage, that is on the same parcel of property as the principal
building and which is incidental to the use of the principal building.
AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed structure used exclusively for
agricultural purposes or uses in connection with the production, harvesting,
storage, raising, or drying of agricultural commodities and livestock,
including aquatic organisms. Structures that house tools or equipment used in
connection with these purposes or uses are also considered to have agricultural
purposes or uses.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood is often referred to as the one
hundred (100) year flood. The base flood elevation at any location is as
defined in section
9-4-3 of this chapter.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The height in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where specified) of the crest of
the base flood.
BASEMENT: Any portion of the building, including any sunken room or sunken
portion of a room, having its floor below ground level (subgrade) on all sides.
BUILDING: A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage tank,
that is principally above ground including manufactured homes and prefabricated
buildings. The term also includes recreational vehicles and travel trailers
installed on a site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days per year.
CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR): A letter providing FEMA's comment
on a proposed project that would, upon construction, affect the hydrologic or
hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and thus result in the
modification of the existing floodway, the effective BFEs, or the SFHA.
CRITICAL FACILITY: Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare of
the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital
services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can
put special populations at risk.
DAM: All obstructions, wall embankments or barriers, together with their
abutments and appurtenant works, if any, constructed for the purpose of storing
or diverting water or creating a pool. Dams may also include weirs, restrictive
culverts, or impoundment Structures. Underground water storage tanks are not
included.
DEVELOPMENT: Any man-made change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
   A.   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building;
   B.   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
   C.   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year;
   D.   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges, culverts or
similar projects;
   E.   Redevelopment of a site, clearing of land as an adjunct of construction
   F.   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls, or fences;
   G.   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving, or
other alterations of the ground surface;
   H.   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid storage
tanks, and channel modifications or any other activity that might change the
direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
DEVELOPMENT: Does not include resurfacing of pavement when there is no increase
in elevation; construction of farm fencing; or gardening, plowing, and similar
practices that do not involve filing, grading, or construction of levees.
ELEVATION CERTIFICATE: A form published by FEMA that is used to certify the
elevation to which a Building has been constructed.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEMA: Federal Emergency Management Agency and its regulations at 44 CFR 59-79,
as amended.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from overflow of inland or tidal waters, or from the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
Flood also includes the collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a
lake or other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by
waves or currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly
caused by an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied
by a severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood
or an abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable
event which results in a general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal
waters.
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: A map prepared by the FEMA that depicts the
floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a community. This map
includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict floodways and show
BFEs.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
FLOODPLAIN AND SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): These two terms are
synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction of the Village of Dieterich,
Illinois, the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Village of Dieterich,
Illinois, or that may be annexed into the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, that
are subject to inundation by the base flood. The floodplains of the Village of
Dieterich, Illinois, are generally identified as such on panel number(s)
17049CIND1A, 17049C0217D, and 17049C0225D of the countywide FIRM of Effingham
County prepared by the FEMA and dated January 17, 2025. Floodplain also
includes those areas of known flooding as identified by the community.
The floodplains of those parts of unincorporated Effingham County that are
within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Village of Dieterich, Illinois,
or that may be annexed into the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, are generally
identified as such on the FIRM prepared for Effingham County by the FEMA and
dated January 17, 2025.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE: A form published by the FEMA that is used to certify
that a building has been designed and constructed to be structurally dry flood
proofed to the flood protection elevation.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The elevation of the base flood plus one foot
of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
FLOODWAY: That portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the base
flood. The floodway for the floodplains of Bishop Creek and Dieterich Creek
shall be as delineated on the countywide FIRM of Effingham County prepared by
FEMA and dated January 17, 2025. The floodways for each of the remaining
floodplains of the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, shall be according to the
best data available from the federal, state, or other sources.
FREEBOARD: An increment of elevation added to the BFE to provide a factor of
safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed development, unknown
localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable effects such as those
caused by ice or debris jams.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the national register.
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily determined
by the secretary to qualify as a registered historic district.
   C.   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by the
Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that has
been certified by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
IDNR/OWR: Illinois department of natural resources/office of water resources:
IDNR /OWR JURISDICTIONAL STREAM: IDNR/OWR has jurisdiction over any stream
serving a tributary area of six hundred forty (640) acres or more in an urban
area, or in the floodway of any stream serving a tributary area of six thousand
four hundred (6,400) acres or more in a rural area. Construction on these
streams requires a permit from the IDNR/OWR. (Ill Admin. Code tit. 17, pt.
3700.30). The IDNR/OWR may grant approval for specific types of activities by
issuance of a statewide permit which meets the standards defined in
9-4-6 of this chapter.
LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA): Official determination by FEMA that a specific
building, defined area of land, or a parcel of land, where there has not been
any alteration of the topography since the date of the first NFIP map showing
the property within the floodplain, was inadvertently included within the
floodplain and that the building, defined area of land, or a parcel of land is
removed from the floodplain.
LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR): Letter that revises BFEs, floodplains or
floodways as shown on an effective FIRM.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor. Provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of
9-4-7 of this chapter.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A building, transportable in one or more sections that is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more lots for rent or sale.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the start of construction commenced or
after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
NFIP: National Flood Insurance Program.
NAVD 88: North American Vertical Datum of 1988. NAVD 88 supersedes the National
Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929 (NGVD).
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less in size, when measured at the
largest horizontal projection;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
REPETITIVE LOSS: Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two separate
occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs at the
time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds twenty-five
percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
SFHA: See definition of floodplain.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and means the date the
building permit was issued. This, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or other
improvement, was within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The
actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation
of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of
excavation or placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a
substantial improvement, actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE (SEE "BUILDING"): The results of a man-made change to the land
constructed on or below the ground, including a building, as defined in
9-4-2, any addition to a building; installing utilities, construction of roads
or similar projects; construction or erection of levees, walls, fences, bridges
or culverts.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
percentage of damage during a ten (10) year period equals or exceeds fifty
percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred
regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and materials must
be included in this determination. The term includes "Repetitive Loss
Buildings" (see definition).
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
improvement of a structure taking place during a ten (10) year period in which
the percentage of improvements equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure before the improvement or repair is started.
Substantial improvement is considered to occur when the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
structure. This term includes structures which have incurred repetitive loss or
substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done.
The term does not include:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
   B.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter.
(Ord. 1197-2024, 11-4-2024)
9-4-3: BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:
This chapter’s protection standard is the base flood. The best available base
flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best available
data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace
the existing data with better data and submit it to the FEMA and IDNR/OWR for
approval prior to any development of the site.
A.   The BFE for the floodplains of Bishop Creek and Dieterich Creek shall be
as delineated on the base flood profiles in the countywide flood insurance
study of Effingham County prepared by the FEMA and dated January 17, 2025.
B.   The BFE for each floodplain delineated as an "AH Zone" or AO Zone" shall
be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the countywide FIRM of Effingham
County.
C.   The BFE for each of the remaining floodplains delineated as an "A Zone" on
the countywide FIRM of Effingham County shall be according to the best data
available from federal, state, or other sources. Should no other data exist, an
engineering study must be financed by the applicant to determine BFEs.
D.   The BFE for the floodplains of those parts of unincorporated Effingham
County that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Village of
Dieterich, Illinois, or that may be annexed into the Village of Dieterich,
Illinois, shall be as delineated on the base flood profiles in the flood
insurance study of Effingham County prepared by the FEMA and dated January 17,
2025.
(Ord. 1197-2024, 11-4-2024)
9-4-4: DUTIES OF THE VILLAGE CLERK:
The village clerk, and/or his or her designee, shall be responsible for the
general administration of this chapter and ensure that all development
activities within the floodplains under the jurisdiction of the Village of
Dieterich, Illinois, meet the requirements of this chapter. Specifically, the
village clerk shall:
A.   Check all new development sites to determine if they are in the floodplain
using the criteria listed in section
9-4-3, Base Flood Elevation or for critical facilities, using the zero point
two percent (0.2%) annual chance flood elevation, if defined.
B.   Process development permits and any permit extensions in accordance with
section
9-4-5 and ensure all development activities happen in a timely manner.
C.   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of section
9-4-6.
D.   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings subject
to section
9-4-7 are met and maintain a record of the "as-built" elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement), elevation certificate, or floodproofing
certificate.
E.   Review Elevation Certificates for accuracy and require incomplete or
deficient certificates to be corrected.
F.   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements of
section 8 and notify FEMA in writing whenever the corporate boundaries have
been modified by annexation.
G.   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public health
standards of section
9-4-9.
H.   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of section 9-4-11
are met and maintain documentation of any variances granted.
I.   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty actions
outlined in section 9-4-13 as a necessary to ensure compliance with this
chapter.
J.   Ensure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other required
local, state, and federal permits; including permits pertaining to IDNR/OWR
floodway and dam safety rules, Clean Water Act, Public Water Supply, Endangered
Species Act, Illinois Endangered and Species Protection Act.
K.   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any alteration or
relocation of a watercourse.
L.   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about permit
procedures and floodplain construction techniques.
M.   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter.
N.   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps, copies of
state and federal permits, and any other documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter.
O.   Notify FEMA and IDNR/OWR of any proposed amendments to this chapter.
P.   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter and make
substantial damage determinations for structures within the floodplain.
Q.   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/OWR and/
or submitting information to FEMA within six (6) months whenever a modification
of the floodplain may change the BFE or result in a change to the floodplain
map.
R.   Schedule an annual inspection of the floodplain and document the results
of the inspection.
S.   Establish, procedures for administering and documenting determinations, as
outlined below, of substantial improvement and substantial damage:
   1.   Determine the market value or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building before the start of construction of the proposed work. In the case
of repair, the market value of the building shall be the market value before
the damage occurred and before any repairs are made.
   2.   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building.
   3.   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or substantial damage.
   4.   Notify property owner of all determinations and responsibilities for
permitting and mitigation.
(Ord. 1197-2024, 11-4-2024)
9-4-5: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A.   Development permits:
   1.   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body, not exempted by
law, shall commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the village clerk.
   2.   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body shall commence any
development of a critical facility on land below the zero point two percent
(0.2%) annual chance flood elevation without first obtaining a development
permit from the village clerk.
   3.   The village clerk shall only issue a permit for development activities,
including new construction and substantial improvements, which meet the
requirements of this chapter.
B.   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
   1.   A site plan or drawings, drawn to scale using NAVD 88, showing:
      a.   Property lines and dimensions,
      b.   Existing grade elevations,
      c.   All changes in grade resulting from excavation or filling,
      d.   Description of the benchmark or source of survey elevation control
      e.   Sewage disposal facilities,
      f.   Water supply facilities,
      g.   Floodplain limits based on elevation or depth, as applicable;
      h.   Floodway limits, as applicable;
      i.   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      j.   The location and dimensions of all structures, including but not
limited to fences, culverts, decks, gazebos, agricultural structures, and
accessory structures;
      k.   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of section 9-4-7 of this
chapter.
   2.   Cost of project or improvements, including all materials and labor, as
estimated by a licensed engineer or architect. A signed estimate by a
contractor may also meet this requirement.
C.   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the village clerk
shall compare the elevation of the site to the BFE.
   1.   Any development located on land that is shown by survey elevation to be
below the current BFE is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   2.   Any development located on land shown to be below the BFE and
hydraulically connected to a flood source, but not identified as floodplain on
the current FIRM, is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   3.   Any development located on land that can be shown by survey data to be
higher than the current BFE and which has not been filled after the date of the
site's first flood map showing the site in the floodplain, is not located in a
mapped floodway, or located in a Zone A, is not in the floodplain and therefore
not subject to the provisions of this chapter. A LOMR-Floodway is required
before developing land inadvertently included in a mapped floodway. Unless a
LOMR is obtained, all chapter provisions apply if the land is located in a Zone
A.
   4.   Any development located on land that is above the current BFE but will
be graded to an elevation below the BFE, is subject to the provisions of this
chapter.
   5.   The village clerk shall maintain documentation of the existing ground
elevation at the development site and certification that this ground elevation
existed prior to the date of the site's first FIRM identification.
   6.   The village clerk shall be responsible for obtaining from the applicant
copies of all other federal, state, and local permits, approvals or permit-not-
required letters that may be required for this type of activity. The village
clerk shall not issue a permit unless all other federal, state, and local
permits have been obtained.
D.   Upon receipt of an application for a critical facility, the village clerk
shall compare the elevation of the site to the zero point two percent (0.2%)
annual chance flood elevation, if available. Refer to section 9.A.5. for
critical facility site requirements.
E.   A development permit or approval shall become invalid unless the actual
start of construction, as defined, for work authorized by such permit, is
commenced within one hundred eighty (180) days after its issuance, or if the
work authorized is suspended or abandoned for a period of one hundred eighty
(180) days after the work commences. All permitted work shall be completed
within a local permit expiration period after the date of issuance of the
permit or the permit shall expire. Time extensions, of not more than one
hundred eighty (180) days each, may be granted, in writing, by the village
clerk. Time extensions shall be granted only if the original permit is
compliant with this chapter and the FIRM and FIS in effect at the time the
extension is granted.
F.   Certification and As-Built Documentation. The applicant is required to
submit certification by a licensed professional engineer or registered land
surveyor that the finished fill and building elevations were accomplished in
compliance with section
9-4-7 of this chapter. Floodproofing measures must be certified by a registered
professional engineer or registered architect as being compliant with
applicable floodproofing standards. Accessory structures designed in accordance
with section
9-4-7 of this chapter are exempt from certification, provided sufficient
compliance with the development permit are documented. FEMA elevation
certificate and floodproofing certificate forms are required as documentation
of compliance.
   An as-built grading plan, prepared by a registered professional engineer is
required to certify that any development in floodplain, such as grading or the
construction of bridges or culverts, are in substantial conformance with the
development permit.
   No building, land or structure may be occupied or used in any manner until a
letter or certificate has been issued by the village clerk stating that the use
of the building or land conforms to the requirements of this chapter.
   The village clerk must maintain records in perpetuity documenting compliance
with this chapter, including the elevation to which structures and alterations
to structures are constructed or floodproofed.
G.   Application Fees And Engineering Review Fee. A non-refundable application
fee of one hundred dollars ($100) shall be paid to the village clerk. An
additional fee may be charged if the village clerk requires the assistance of a
professional engineer or other expert. The applicant will be contacted in
writing before any outside review begins with the estimated engineering or
expert review fee. The applicant must consent in writing before the outside
review begins. The engineering review fee shall be paid in full by the
applicant within thirty (30) days after the applicant receives the bill.
(Ord. 1197-2024, 11-4-2024)
9-4-6: PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES:
Within any floodway identified on the countywide FIRM, and within all other
floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the following standards
shall apply:
A.   Except as provided in section 9-4-6B. of this chapter, no development
shall be allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated
development will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to
public health and safety. The following specific development activities shall
be considered as meeting this requirement:
   1.   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
conditions of the IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 2.
   2.   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide
permit number 3.
   3.   Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide
permit number 4.
   4.   Minor boat docks meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide
permit number 5.
   5.   Minor, non-obstructive activities such as underground utility lines,
light poles, sign posts, driveways, athletic fields, patios, playground
equipment, minor storage buildings not exceeding seventy (70) square feet and
raising buildings on the same footprint which does not involve fill and any
other activity meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 6.
   6.   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 7.
   7.   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 8.
   8.   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 9.
   9.   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential buildings
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 10.
   10.   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 11.
   11.   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening meeting
the following conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 12.
   12.   Temporary construction activities meeting the following conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 13.
   13.   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely within a
flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit requirements.
B.   Other development activities not listed in 6(A) may be permitted only if:
   1.   Permit has been issued for the work in an IDNR/OWR Jurisdictional
Streams by IDNR/OWR (or written documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR
permit is not required), or
   2.   Aufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and approval
obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and BFE.
(Ord. 1197-2024, 11-4-2024)
9-4-7: PROTECTING BUILDINGS:
A.   In addition to the state permit and damage prevention requirements of
section 6 of this chapter, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be
protected from flood damage below the FPE. This building protection requirement
applies to the following situations:
   1.   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or addition
to an existing building.
   2.   Value of improvements equals or exceeds the market value by fifty
percent (50%). If substantially improved, the existing structure and the
addition must meet the flood protection standards of this section.
   3.   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. If substantially
damaged, the entire structure must meet the flood protection standards of this
section within twenty-four (24) months of the date the damage occurred.
   4.   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured home
on an existing site.
   5.   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for more
than one hundred eighty (180) days per year.
   6.   Repetitive loss to an existing building as defined in section 2.
B.   Residential or non-residential buildings can meet the building protection
requirements by one of the following methods:
   1.   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill with the lowest
floor including basement at or above the FPE in accordance with the following
conditions:
      a.   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the FPE.
      b.   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six (6) inches
before compaction and should extend at least twenty (20) feet beyond the
foundation before sloping below the FPE in lieu of a geotechnical report.
      c.   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure.
      d.   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse material.
      e.   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties and when necessary stormwater management
techniques, such as swales or basins, shall be incorporated.
   2.   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following:
      a.   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawlspace, or other foundation that is permanently open to flood
waters.
      b.   All components located below the FPE shall be constructed of
materials resistant to flood damage.
      c.   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating, plumbing,
and air conditioning equipment shall be located at or above the FPE.
      d.   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the FPE shall provide
for equalization of hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters. At least two (2) walls must have a minimum of one (1)
permanent opening that is below the BFE and no more than one (1) foot above
finished grade. The openings shall provide a total net area of not less than
one (1) square inch for every one (1) square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding below the BFE, or the design must be certified by a registered P.E, as
providing the equivalent performance in accordance with accepted standards of
practice. Refer to FEMA TB 1, Openings in Foundation Walls and Walls of
Enclosures, for additional guidance.
      e.   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored, designed,
and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such as
current, waves, ice, and floating debris.
         (1)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the FPE
provided they are waterproofed.
         (2)   The area below the FPE shall be used solely for parking or
building access and not later modified or occupied as habitable space.
         (3)   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply with
these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
   3.   The building may be constructed with a crawlspace located below the FPE
provided that the following conditions and requirements of FEMA TB 11,
Crawlspace Construction for Buildings Located in Special Flood Hazard Areas,
which ever are more restrictive, are met:
      a.   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
      b.   All enclosed areas below the FPE shall provide for equalization of
hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
A minimum of one (1) permanent opening shall be provided on at least two (2)
walls that is below the BFE and no more than one (1) foot above finished grade.
The openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one (1) square
inch for every one (1) square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below
the BFE, or the design must be certified by a registered P.E. as providing the
equivalent performance in accordance with accepted standards of practice. Refer
to FEMA TB 1, Openings in Foundation Walls and Walls of Enclosures, for
additional guidance.
      c.   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundations wall must not exceed four (4)
feet at any point.
      d.   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove floodwaters
from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period of time
after a flood event.
      e.   Portions of the building below the FPE must be constructed with
materials resistant to flood damage, and
      f.   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
FPE.
C.   Non-residential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed (in lieu of
elevation) provided a licensed professional engineer or architect certifies
that:
   1.   Below the FPE the structure and attendant utility facilities are
watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the base flood.
   2.   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate of
rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice.
   3.   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building design
and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity.
   4.   Levees, berms, floodwalls, and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this subsection.
D.   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on site
shall be:
   1.   Elevated to or above the FPE in accordance with section
9-4-7. B, and
   2.   anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by being
tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the Illinois Mobile
Home Tie-Down Act issued pursuant to 77 Ill. Adm. Code § 870.
E.   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of
section
9-4-7. D unless the following conditions are met:
   1.   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light duty
truck.
   2.   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times.
   3.   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as decks
and porches
   4.   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping, travel, or
seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling.
   5.   The vehicles having a total area not exceeding four hundred (400)
square feet measured when measured at the largest horizontal projection.
   6.   The vehicle's wheels must remain on axles and inflated.
   7.   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be safe
for movement of the floodplain.
   8.   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick-disconnect.
   9.   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle or
park model, and must either:
      a.   Entirely be supported by jacks, or
      b.   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching the
ground and be supported by block in a manner that will allow the block to be
easily removed by used of the hitch jack.
F.   Detached accessory structures may be permitted provided the following
conditions are met:
   1.   The structure must be non-habitable.
   2.   The structure must be used only for the parking and storage and cannot
be modified later into another use.
   3.   The structure must be located outside of the floodway or have the
appropriate state and/or federal permits.
   4.   The exterior and interior building components and elements (i.e.,
foundation, wall framing, exterior and interior finishes, flooring, etc.) below
the BFE, must be built with flood-resistant materials in accordance section
9-4-7.
   5.   All utilities, mechanical, and electrical must be elevated above the
FPE.
   6.   The structure must have at least one (1) permanent opening on at least
two (2) walls not more than one (1) foot above grade with one (1) square inch
of opening for every one (1) square foot of floor area.
   7.   The structure must be no more than one story in height and no more than
six hundred (600) square feet in size.
   8.   The structure shall be anchored to resist floatation, collapse, lateral
movement. and overturning.
   9.   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, etc.) shall be stored above the FPE.
   10.   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner advised
of the flood insurance implications.
(Ord. 1197-2024, 11-4-2024)
9-4-8: SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS:
The board of zoning appeals and planning and village board shall take into
account hazards, to the extent that they are known, in all official actions
related to land management use and development.
A.   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements, planned
unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks and subdivisions
shall meet the damage prevention and building protections standards of sections
9-4-6 and
9-4-7 of this chapter.
B.   Streets, blocks lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located and
laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible the floodplains should be included within parks,
openspace parcels, or other public grounds.
C.   Any proposal for such development shall include the following data:
   1.   The BFE and the boundary of the floodplain, where the BFE is not
available from an existing study, the applicant shall be responsible for
calculating the BFE.
   2.   The boundary of the floodway, when applicable.
   3.   A signed statement by a licensed professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act (765 ILCS 205/2).
(Ord. 1197-2024, 11-4-2024)
9-4-9: PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS:
A.   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of sections
9-4-6 and
9-4-7 of this chapter, the following standards apply:
   1.   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the FPE unless such materials are
stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and certified by a
professional engineer or floodproofed building constructed according to the
requirements of section
9-4-7 of this chapter.
   2.   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric shall
be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
   3.   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be located
and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the
systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   4.   New and replacement on-site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other above ground
openings located below the FPE shall be watertight.
   5.    Critical facilities, which are buildings, constructed or substantially
improved within the floodplain or the zero point two percent (0.2) percent
annual chance flood elevation when defined, shall have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated or structurally dry floodproofed to the zero
point two percent (0.2) percent annual chance flood elevation or three feet
above the BFE, whichever is greater. Adequate parking shall be provided for
staffing of the critical facilities at or above the BFE or zero point two
percent (0.2) percent chance flood, when defined. Access routes to all critical
facilities should be reviewed and considered when permitting. Access routes
should be elevated to or above the level of the BFE.
   Floodproofing and sealing measures may also be used to provide protection,
as described in section
9-4-7, and must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced
by or released into floodwaters.
   Critical facilities include emergency services facilities (such as fire and
police stations), schools, hospitals, retirement homes, senior care facilities,
specific roads and bridges required for evacuation, and critical utility sites
(telephone switching stations or electrical transformers), All other activities
defined as development shall be designed so as not to alter flood flows or
increase potential flood damages.
B.   Dams are classified as to their size and their hazard/damage potential in
the event of failure. Permits for dams may be required from IDNR/OWR. Contact
IDNR/OWR to determine if a permit is required. If a permit is required, a
permit application must be made to IDNR/OWR prior to the construction or major
modification of jurisdictional dams.
C.   Letters of Map Revision. The village clerk shall require a CLOMR prior to
issuance of a development permit for:
   1.   Proposed floodway encroachments that will cause an increase in the BFE;
and
   2.   Proposed development which will increase the BFE by more than 0.1 feet
in riverine area where FEMA has provided a BFE but no floodway.
   Once a CLOMR has been issued, the development permit may be issued for site
grading and structures necessary in the area of the map change to achieve the
final LOMR. Upon completion, the applicant shall submit as-built
certifications, as required by FEMA, to achieve a final LOMR prior to the
release of final development permits. Review section 9. E for the construction
of buildings in any floodplain issued a LOMR Based on Fill.
D.   When construction of a building following a LOMR based on fill is
requested, the condition where a site in the floodplain is removed due to the
use of fill to elevate the site above the BFE, the applicant may not apply for
a permit from the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, to construct the lowest floor
of a building below the BFE in the floodplain.
(Ord. 1197-2024, 11-4-2024)
9-4-10: CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION:
For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream maintenance
(including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse shall be
maintained.
In addition, the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, shall notify adjacent
communities in writing thirty (30) days prior to the issuance of a permit for
the alteration or relocation of the watercourse.
(Ord. 1197-2024, 11-4-2024)
9-4-11: VARIANCES:
A.     No variances shall be granted within a floodway if any increases in the
base flood elevation would result.
B.   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the board of zoning appeals
and planning for a variance. The board of zoning appeals and planning shall
review the applicant's request for a variance and shall submit its
recommendation to the board of trustees of the Village of Dieterich, Illinois.
The board of trustees of the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, may attach such
conditions to granting of a variance as it deems necessary to further the
purposes and objectives of this chapter. The board of trustees shall base the
determination on:
   1.   Technical justifications submitted by the applicant.
   2.   The staff report, comments, and recommendations submitted by the
village clerk.
   3.   The limitations, considerations, and conditions set forth in this
section.
C.   The findings of fact and conclusions of law made by the board of zoning
appeals and planning according to section
9-4-11. A, the notifications required by section
9-4-11.B, and a record of hearings and evidence considered as justification for
the issuance of all variances from this chapter shall be maintained by the
Village of Dieterich, Illinois, in perpetuity.
D.   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates and the
board of zoning appeals and planning finds that all of the following conditions
are met:
   1.   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain.
   2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship by rendering the lot undevelopable.
   3.   The variance granted is the minimum necessary, considering the flood
hazard, to afford relief.
   4.   There will be no additional threat to public health, public safety,
destruction of beneficial stream uses and functions including, aquatic habitat,
causation of fraud on or victimization of the public, conflict with existing
local laws or ordinances, or creation of a nuisance.
   5.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection, rescue
or relief operations, policing, lost environmental stream uses and functions,
repairs to streambeds and banks, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities.
   6.   The circumstances of the property are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP.
   7.   Good and sufficient cause has been shown that the unique
characteristics of the size, configuration, or topography of the site renders
the requirements of this chapter inappropriate.
   8.   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
E.   The board of zoning appeals and planning shall notify an applicant in
writing that a variance from the requirements of the building protections
standards of section 7 that would lessen the degree of protection to a building
will:
   1.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to twenty-five
dollars ($25) per one hundred dollars ($100) of insurance coverage.
   2.   Increase the risk to life and property.
   3.   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks and
that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
F.   Considerations For Review. In reviewing applications for variances, all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all other portions of these
regulations, and the following shall be considered:
   1.   The danger that materials and debris may be swept onto other lands
resulting in further injury or damage.
   2.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage.
   3.   The susceptibility of the proposed development, including contents, to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on current and future owners.
   4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed development to
the community.
   5.   The availability of alternate locations for the proposed development
that are not subject to flooding or erosion.
   6.   The compatibility of the proposed development with existing and
anticipated development.
   7.   The relationship of the proposed development to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area.
   8.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles.
   9.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and debris and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site.
   10.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, streets, and bridges.
G.   Historic Structures. Variances issued for the reconstruction, repair, or
alteration of a historic site or historic structure as defined in "Historic
Structures", may be granted using criteria more permissive than the
requirements of sections 6 and 7 of this chapter subject to the conditions
that:
   1.   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
   2.    The repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's
continued designation as a historic structure.
H.   Agriculture Structures. Variances issued for the construction or
substantial improvement of agricultural structures which do not meet the non-
residential building requirements of sections
9-4-7.B and
9-4-7.C, provided the requirements of section
9-4-11.A through
9-4-11.G and the following are satisfied:
   1.   A determination that the proposed agricultural structure:
      a.    Is used exclusively in connection with the production, harvesting,
storage, raising, or drying of agricultural commodities, or storage of tools or
equipment used in connection with these purposes or uses, and will be
restricted to such exclusive uses.
      b.   Has low damage potential (amount of physical damage, contents
damage, and loss of function).
      c.   Does not increase risks and pose a danger to public health, safety,
and welfare if flooded and contents are released, including but not limited to
the effects of flooding on liquified natural gas terminals, and production and
storage of highly volatile, toxic, or water-reactive materials.
      d.    Complies with the wet floodproofing construction requirements of
section
9-4-11.H. 2.
   2.   Wet floodproofing construction requirements. Wet floodproofed
structures shall:
      a.   The exterior and interior building components and elements (i.e.,
foundation, wall framing, exterior and interior finishes, flooring, etc.) below
the BFE, must be built with flood-resistant materials in accordance with
section 7 of this chapter.
      b.   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
      c.   All enclosed areas below the FPE shall provide for equalization of
hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
A minimum of one (1) permanent opening shall be provided on at least two (2)
walls that is below the BFE and no more than one (1) foot above finished grade.
The openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one (1) square
inch for every one (1) square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below
the BFE, or the design must be certified by a registered P.E. as providing the
equivalent performance in accordance with accepted standards of practice. Refer
to FEMA TB 1, Openings in Foundation Walls and Walls of Enclosures, for
additional guidance.
      d.   Any mechanical, electrical, or other utility equipment must be
located above the BFE or floodproofed so that they are contained within a
watertight, floodproofed enclosure that is capable of resisting damage during
flood conditions in accordance with section
9-4-7 of this chapter.
      e.   If located in a floodway, must be issued a state floodway permit,
and comply with section
9-4-6 of this chapter.
      f.   The building may not be used for manure storage or livestock
confinement operations.
(Ord. 1197-2024, 11-4-2024)
9-4-12: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable for
regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, any officer or employee thereof for any
flood damage that results from proper reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 1197-2024, 11-4-2024)
9-4-13: PENALTY:
Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or failure to
comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed to be a
violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the village attorney of the
Village of Dieterich, Illinois, may determine that a violation of the minimum
standards of this chapter exists. The village attorney of the Village of
Dieterich, Illinois, shall notify the owner in writing of such violation.
A.   If such owner fails after ten (10) days from the date the written notice
is issued, to correct the violation:
   1.   The Village of Dieterich, Illinois, shall make application to the
circuit court for an injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make
such other order as the court deems necessary to secure compliance with the
chapter;
   2.   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50) or more than seven hundred fifty ($750)
for each offense;
   3.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues; and,
   4.   The Village of Dieterich, Illinois, shall record a notice of violation
on the title of the property.
B.   The village attorney of the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, shall inform
the owner that any such violation is considered a willful act to increase flood
damages and therefore may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy
to be suspended.
   The village attorney of the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, is authorized to
issue an order requiring the suspension of the subject development. The stop-
work order shall be in writing, indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall
order the action, if necessary, to resolve the circumstances requiring the
stop-work order. The stop-work order constitutes a suspension of the permit.
   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or revoked until a
hearing is held by the board of zoning appeals and planning. Written notice of
such hearing shall be served on the permittee and shall state the grounds for
the complaint, reasons for suspension or revocation, and the time and place of
the hearing.
   At such hearing the permittee shall be given an opportunity to present
evidence on their behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the board of zoning
appeals and planning shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended or
revoked.
C.    Nothing herein shall prevent the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, from
taking such other lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs
connected therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 1197-2024, 11-4-2024)
9-4-14: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the Village of
Dieterich, Illinois, to fulfill the requirements of the NFIP including:
Ordinance No. 746-13, an Ordinance Regulating Development in Floodplain Areas
Within the Jurisdictional Limits of the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, which
regulations were codified in Chapter 4 of Title 9 of the Code of Ordinances of
the Village of Dieterich. However, this chapter does not repeal the original
resolution or ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in the program. Nor does
this chapter repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or
deed restrictions. Where this chapter and other ordinance, easement, covenants
or deed restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 1197-2024, 11-4-2024)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Statute Authority; Purpose
10-1-2: Interpretation And Application
10-1-3: Compliance Required; General Regulations
10-1-1: STATUTE AUTHORITY; PURPOSE:
This title is hereby enacted pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-13-
1 to provide for the health, comfort, safety and convenience of the inhabitants
of the Village and vicinity; to establish reasonable regulations for the
development of the area; to conserve property values; and to protect the public
interest in conformity with the heretofore adopted official plan for the
Village. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
10-1-2: INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION:
A.   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety,
health, convenience, comfort, prosperity, or general welfare.
B.   It is not intended by this title to interfere with or abrogate or annul
any easements, covenants, or other agreements between parties; provided,
however, that where this title imposes a greater restriction upon the use of
buildings or premises or upon the height of buildings or requires larger open
spaces than are imposed or required by other ordinances, rules, or regulations
or by easements, covenants, or agreements, the provisions of this title shall
govern.
C.   Should any section, clause or provision of this title be declared by a
court to be invalid, the same shall not affect the validity of this title as a
whole or in part, other than the part so declared to be invalid. (Ord. 487, 1-
7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
10-1-3: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; GENERAL REGULATIONS:
Except as herein specifically provided:
A.   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, moved or
structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used, except for a use
permitted in the district in which such building or land is located.
B.   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered to exceed the height limit herein established for the
district in which such building is located except as specifically provided in
this title.
C.   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered except in conformity with the area regulations of the
district in which such building is located, except as specifically provided in
this title.
D.   No building shall be erected or structurally altered to the extent
specifically provided in this title except in conformity with the off street
parking and loading regulations of the district in which such building is
located.
E.   The minimum yards, parking spaces, and open spaces, including lot area per
family, required by this title for each and every building existing at the
effective date hereof or for any building hereafter erected shall not be
encroached upon or considered as part of the yard or parking space or open
space required for any other building, nor shall any lot area be reduced below
the requirements of this title for the district in which such lot is located,
except as specifically provided in this title.
F.   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be located
on a lot, as defined in section
10-2-2 of this title, and in no case shall there be more than one (1) main
building on one (1) lot except as specifically provided in section
10-3-2 of this title.
G.   All inhabited mobile homes shall be located in an R-4 District as provided
in this title. The temporary use of a mobile home or a temporary structure as a
building in conjunction with construction work shall be permitted.
H.   Use Of Temporary Accessory Structure Or Facility. No temporary accessory
structure or facility shall be used or occupied for any residential,
commercial, industrial, or institution use, including storage, except as
permitted as follows:
   1.   The Village Clerk may permit the use of such a temporary accessory
structure or facility for a period not to exceed sixty (60) days in compliance
with reasonable consideration of the general health, safety or general welfare
relating to fire, explosion, flood or other health or safety threatening
situations. Any such temporary accessory structure of facility so located for
more than sixty (60) days shall require approval of the Board of Zoning Appeals
and Planning for a defined time period and use.
   2.   The Village Clerk may issue a permit for a temporary accessory
structure or facility for office or storage use in conjunction with
construction, demolition, or similar activity for a period not to exceed one
(1) year. Such permit may be extended by six (6) month increments to the end of
the project, but not beyond. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002; amd. Ord.
1030-2020, 6-1-2020)
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Rules Of Word Construction
10-2-2: Definitions
10-2-1: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
Words used in the present tense include the future; words in the singular
number include the plural, and words in the plural number include the singular;
the word "building" includes the word "structure"; the word "shall" is
mandatory and not directory. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
10-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, certain terms and words are hereby defined as
follows:
   ACCESSORY BUILDING AND USE: An "accessory building" is a subordinate
building, located on the same lot as the main building, the use of which is
naturally and normally incidental to that of the dominant use of the main
building or land. An "accessory use" is one which is naturally and normally
incidental to the main use of the premises.
   ALLEY: A way which affords only a secondary means of access to property
abutting thereon.
   APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms intended, designed or used as a
residence by a single family.
   APARTMENT HOUSE: See definition of dwelling, multiple.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment engaged in the service or
repair of automobiles, trucks of less than twelve thousand (12,000) pounds'
gross weight, recreational vehicles, boats and motorcycles, and reconditioning
and repair of parts and accessories for such vehicles. Service and repair may
include general repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of engines, vehicle
collision service, body repair and frame straightening; painting and
upholstering; vehicle steam cleaning, undercoating and machining of parts.
   BASEMENT: A story partly underground and having at least one- half (1/2) of
its height above the average level of the adjoining ground. A basement shall be
counted as a story if subdivided and used for dwelling or business purposes,
other than for the quarters of a watchman or janitor.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT: A building where, for compensation and by
arrangement, lodging (in not more than 5 lodging rooms) and a breakfast meal is
provided for transient guests in addition to the resident family.
   BOARDING HOUSE OR LODGING HOUSE: A building where, for compensation and by
arrangement, lodging (in not more than 5 lodging rooms) and meals are provided
for persons in addition to the resident family.
   BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for
support, enclosure, shelter or protection of persons, animals, chattels or
property of any kind.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF: The vertical distance from the grade (elevation of the
sidewalk of the average level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to
the structure) to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof, or to the
deck line of mansard roof, or to the mean height level between eaves and ridge
for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
   CAR WASH: A structure or portion thereof containing facilities for washing
private passenger vehicles, using automatic methods with a chain conveyer,
blower, steam cleaning device or other mechanical devices; or providing space
and equipment for the hand washing, cleaning or polishing of passenger
vehicles, whether by the customer or the operator, but not including truck wash
facilities.
   CELLAR: That portion of a building between floor and ceiling which is wholly
or partly below grade, and having more than one-half (1/2) of its height below
grade.
   CLINIC: An establishment where patients who are not lodged overnight are
admitted for examination and treatment by a group of physicians, dentists, or
other members of the healing arts practicing together.
   CLUB: A building or portion thereof or premises owned or operated by a
corporation, association, person or persons for a social, educational or
recreational purpose, but not primarily for profit or to render a service which
is customarily carried on as a business.
   DAYCARE CENTER: Any childcare facility, with or without stated educational
purposes, receiving six (6) or more children for care during all or part of a
day, licensed and operated under the provisions of the Child Care Act of the
State of Illinois.
   DEVELOPMENTAL HANDICAPPED HOME: A facility licensed by the State of Illinois
providing professionally supervised living accommodations for three (3) or more
developmentally delayed or developmentally handicapped persons who are deemed
by the licensing agency to be capable of living and functioning in the
community.
   DISTRICT: Any section of the Village of Dieterich for which the zoning
regulations governing the use of buildings and premises, the height of
buildings, the size of yards, and the intensity of use are uniform.
   DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment which provides or is designed to
provide, either wholly or in part, parking of patron automobiles from which the
occupants may watch entertainment, purchase goods or services, or transact
business. (See also definition of restaurant, drive-in.)
   DWELLING: Any building or portion thereof which is designed for or used
exclusively for residential purposes, but not including trailers and mobile
homes.
   DWELLING, ATTACHED SINGLE-FAMILY: A dwelling unit having its own ground
floor entrance, joined to two (2) or more dwelling units by party walls, or
other horizontally unifying structural element, each self-sufficient with
utilities, and designed for or occupied exclusively by one (1) family.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE: A dwelling designed for or occupied exclusively by three
(3) or more families.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A dwelling designed for or occupied exclusively by
one (1) family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY (DUPLEX): A dwelling designed for or occupied
exclusively by two (2) families, with each dwelling unit having its own ground
floor entrance, joined to only one (1) other dwelling unit by a party wall, or
other horizontally unifying structural element.
   DWELLING UNIT: One (1) or more rooms which are arranged, designed or used as
living quarters for one (1) family only, and which includes complete bathroom
and kitchen facilities permanently installed to serve the family.
   FAMILY: One (1) or more persons related by blood, marriage, or adoption,
occupying a dwelling and living as a single housekeeping unit and doing their
own cooking on the premises, as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding
house, lodging house, or hotel, as defined in this section.
   FILLING STATION: Any building, structure, or land used for the dispensing,
sale or offering for sale at retail of any automobile fuels, oils or
accessories, including lubrication or washing of automobiles and replacement or
installation of minor parts and accessories, but not including major repair
work such as motor replacement, body, fender repair or spray painting, or
outside storage of vehicles.
   FLOOR AREA: The sum of the gross horizontal areas of all floors of a
building measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the
centerline of walls separating buildings, but not including garages, unenclosed
porches, and cellar or basement space.
   FLUSH MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: System in which the solar collector
surface does not extend beyond 6 (six) inches from the roof surface.
   FOUNDATION, PERMANENT: A structural building support extending from below
the frost line up to the structure and made of cast-in-place concrete, or
concrete blocks mortared together.
   FRONTAGE: All property on one (1) side of a street between two (2)
intersecting streets (crossing or terminating), measured along the line of the
street, or if the street is dead ended, then all of the property abutting on
one (1) side between an intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building designed or used for the storage of
not more than four (4) motor driven vehicles owned and used by the occupants of
the building to which it is accessory, and not storing more than one (1)
commercial vehicle or any vehicle which exceeds two (2) tons' capacity.
   GARAGE, STORAGE OR PARKING: A building or portion thereof designed or used
exclusively for term storage, by pre- arrangement, of motor-driven vehicles, as
distinguished from daily storage furnished transients, and within which motor
fuels and oils may be sold, but no motor-driven vehicles are equipped,
repaired, hired or sold.
   GROUND MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: A free-standing solar energy system that
is placed, affixed, or mounted to the ground.
   HOME OCCUPATION: A business, occupation or profession conducted within a
dwelling unit by a person residing within that dwelling unit which is clearly
incidental to the primary residential use of the structure; and provided, that:
   A.   The occupation shall be conducted wholly within a building or
buildings;
   B.   Outdoor storage in connection with the occupation shall be allowed;
provided, that the storage area is fenced with an opaque fence at least eight
feet (8') in height;
   C.   One (1) sign not greater than six (6) square feet in size shall be
permitted on the premises; the sign shall not be lit;
   D.   There shall be no commodity sold or services rendered that require
delivery or shipment of merchandise, goods, or equipment by other than
passenger-sized motor vehicles, three-quarter to step-up van or similar sized
trucks;
   E.   There shall be no perceptible noise, odor, smoke, electrical
interference or vibrations emanating from the structure in which the home
occupation functions; and
   F.   The home occupation shall be conducted in such a manner that it does
not create parking or traffic congestion for the abutting or adjoining
neighbors or for the immediate neighborhood.
   HOTEL, MOTEL OR MOTOR HOTEL: An establishment containing guestrooms
exclusively for occupancy by transient guests and which provides customary
hotel services such as: maid, telephone and secretarial, bellboy and desk
services; and the use and upkeep of furnishings and laundry of linens.
   INSTITUTION: A building occupied by a non-profit corporation or a nonprofit
establishment for public use.
   LAUNDROMAT: An establishment providing home type washing, dry cleaning,
drying or ironing machines for hire to be used by customers on the premises.
   LOADING SPACE: A space within the main building or on the same lot
therewith, providing for the standing, loading or unloading of trucks, and
having a minimum dimension of twelve feet by one hundred feet (12' x 100') and
a vertical clearance of at least fourteen feet (14').
   LODGING ROOM: Any habitable room, or group of not more than two (2)
habitable rooms forming a habitable unit, occupied or intended to be occupied
by not more than two (2) persons for living and sleeping, but not used for
cooking purposes.
   LOT: A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a use permitted
in this title, including one (1) main building, together with its accessory
buildings, the open spaces and parking spaces required by this title, and
having its principal frontage upon a street or upon an officially approved
place.
   LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting upon two (2) or more streets at their
intersection.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot having a frontage on two (2) nonintersecting
streets as distinguished from a corner lot.
   LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is part of a subdivision, the map of which has
been recorded in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds in Effingham County; or
parcel of land, the deed of which was recorded in the Office of the Recorder of
Deeds Effingham County.
   MINI-WAREHOUSE: A building or group of buildings that contains individual
compartmentalized and controlled access stalls or lockers for the dead storage
of the customer's goods or wares.
   MOBILE HOME (HOUSE TRAILER): A movable or portable dwelling over thirty two
feet (32') in length and over eight feet (8') wide, constructed to be towed on
its own chassis, connected to utilities and designed without a permanent
foundation for year-round occupancy, which can consist of one (1) or more
components that can be retracted for towing purposes and subsequently expanded
for additional capacity, or of two (2) or more units separately towable but
designed to be joined into one (1) integral unit.
   MOBILE HOME PARK (TRAILER PARK): A lot on which are located or which is
arranged or equipped for the accommodation of two (2) or more mobile homes
occupied for living purposes.
   MODULAR HOME: See definition of relocatable home.
   MOTEL: See definition of hotel, motel or motor hotel.
   MOTOR COURT OR MOTEL: A building or group of buildings used for the
temporary residence of motorists or travelers.
   NONCONFORMING USE: The use of land or a building, or portion thereof, which
use does not conform with the use regulations of the district in which it is
situated.
   NON-FLUSH MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: System in which the solar collector
surface extends beyond 6 (six) inches from the roof surface.
   PARKING AREA: An open, unoccupied space used or required for use for parking
of automobiles exclusively and in which no gasoline or automobile accessories
are sold or no other business is conducted and no fees are charged.
   PARKING SPACE: A surfaced area, enclosed in the main building or in an
accessory building, or unenclosed, having an area of not less than one hundred
eighty (180) square feet, exclusive of driveways, permanently reserved for the
temporary storage of one (1) automobile and connected with a street or alley by
a surfaced driveway which affords satisfactory ingress and egress for
automobiles.
   PARTY WALL: A fire separation wall on an interior lot line used or adapted
for joint service between two (2) single- family dwelling units providing not
less than one (1) hour fire resistance separation.
   PORTABLE SIGN: A sign of a temporary nature, not securely anchored to the
ground or to a building or structure, and which obtains some or all of its
structural stability by means of its configuration.
   RELOCATABLE HOME: A moveable or portable dwelling with a floor area of at
least one thousand (1,000) square feet, designed and constructed without a
carriage or hitch, as a stationary house constructed for placement upon a
permanent foundation, to be connected to utilities, for year-round occupancy.
It is capable of being separated from its foundation and utilities and
relocated. It can consist of one (1) or more components that can be retracted
when transported and subsequently expanded for additional capacity, or of two
(2) or more units separately transportable, but designed to be joined into one
(1) integral unit.
   RESTAURANT: An establishment, the sole business of which is the sale of food
or beverages to customers for consumption on the premises. The food is consumed
only on the premises and all dishes cleared by the staff of the establishment
in preparation for the next customer.
   RESTAURANT, CARRYOUT: An establishment, the principal business of which is
the sale of food or beverages to the customer in the ready-to-consume state for
consumption off the premises.
   RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN: An establishment, the principal business of which is
the sale of food or beverages in the ready-to- consume state, all or part of
which is served directly to the customer in a motor vehicle.
   RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD: An establishment, the principal business of which is
the sale of food or beverages in a ready- to-consume state, for consumption on
or off the premises, and which is served in edible containers or in paper,
plastic or other disposable containers.
   SOLAR COLLECTOR SURFACE: Any part of a solar collector that absorbs solar
energy for use in the collector’s energy transformation process. Collector
surface does not include frames, supports and mounting hardware.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: A system that converts solar energy into electricity or
heat through the use of photovoltaic panels or film, solar thermal panels, and
associated control or conversion electronics.
   STORY: That part of a building, other than a cellar or basement (except 1
used for business or residence), included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor next above it or, if there be no floor above it, then
the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
   STORY, HALF: A partial story under a gable, hip or gambrel roof, the wall
plates of which on at least two (2) opposite exterior walls are not more than
four feet (4') above the floor of such story; except, that any partial story
used for residence purposes, other than for a janitor or caretaker or his
family, or by a family occupying the floor immediately below it, shall be
deemed a full story.
   STREET: A public or private thoroughfare which affords the principal means
of access to abutting property.
   STREET LINE: A dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and a
contiguous street.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change in the supporting members of a structure,
such as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders, or doors, other than a change
in windows or a minor alteration which affects primarily the appearance and not
the life of the structure or overall dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires more
or less permanent location on the ground or attached to something having a
permanent location on the ground including, but without limiting the generality
of the foregoing, advertising signs, billboards, backstops for tennis courts
and pergolas, and fences.
   TEMPORARY ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR FACILITY: An independent structure or
enclosed facility that is purposely constructed for transport on highways or by
rail from one location to another location such as a travel trailer, mobile
home, cargo trailer, bus or railroad car - with or without wheels, tongue or
supporting frame removed or other modification.
   TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis and
designed to be used for temporary occupancy for travel, recreational or
vacation use.
   TRUCK SERVICE CENTER: An establishment engaged in the service or repair of
automobiles, trucks, all sizes of commercial or private vehicles of more than
twelve thousand (12,000) pounds and reconditioning and repair of parts and
accessories of such vehicles. Service and repair may include general repair,
rebuilding or reconditioning of engines, vehicle collision service, body repair
and frame straightening; painting and upholstering; vehicle steam cleaning;
undercoating and machining of parts.
   TRUCK WASH: A structure, or portion thereof, containing facilities for
washing, cleaning or polishing autos, trucks, buses or other commercial
vehicles using automatic methods with a chain conveyer, blower, steam cleaning
device or other mechanical devices or providing space and equipment for the
hand washing, cleaning or polishing of autos, trucks, truck trailers, buses or
other commercial vehicles, whether by the customer or the operator.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY: Any facility used for the transmission
and/or reception of wireless telecommunications services, and consisting of all
or a part of the following: an antenna array, connection cables, an equipment
facility, and a support structure.
   YARD: An open space between a building and the adjoining lot lines,
unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground
upward, except as otherwise provided herein, and measured as the minimum
horizontal distance between the lot line and the main building.
   YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the front of a lot between the side
yard lines and measured between the street line and the main building or any
projections thereof other than the projections of the usual uncovered steps,
uncovered balconies, or uncovered porches.
   YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the rear of a lot between the side lot
lines and measured between the rear lot line and the rear of the main building
or any projections thereof other than the projections of uncovered steps,
unenclosed balconies or unenclosed porches. On all lots, the rear yard shall be
at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
   YARD, SIDE: A yard between the main building and the side line of the lot,
and extending from the front lot line to the required rear yard.
(Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002; amd. Ord. 705-12, 6-4-2012; 2017 Code; Ord.
1030-2020, 6-1-2020; Ord. 1158-2024, 4-1-2024)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-3-1: Enforcement Officials
10-3-2: Amendments
10-3-3: Violations; Penalties
10-3-1: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
It shall be the duty of the Village Board of Trustees to enforce this title.
(Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
10-3-2: AMENDMENTS:
A.   The Board of Trustees may, from time to time, on its own motion or on
petition, amend, supplement, or change by ordinance the regulations in the
districts herein or subsequently established, but no such amendments shall be
made without a public hearing before the Board of Zoning Appeals and Planning
and its report to the Board of Trustees. Notice of the time, place and purpose
of such hearing shall be given by legal notice as required by law. The
petitioner requesting rezoning or special use action shall publish a map
depicting the property involved with the legal notice. In addition, the Village
shall post conspicuously on the petitioner's property, on the first working day
following the publication of the legal notice and map, a sign which shall
indicate that the property is to be the subject of a public hearing at a time
and place specified on such sign. In the case of written protest against any
proposed amendment, under the conditions specified in 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-13-14, the amendment shall not be passed except by a favorable
vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the Village Board. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-
2002; amd. 2017 Code)
B.   All petitions praying for a change, amendment or supplement of the
established districts of the Village and regulations connected therewith shall
be filed by the person requesting such action, and such petition shall contain
the street address of the petitioner, the lot number of any real estate owned
by him adjacent to the area proposed to be changed, an accurate legal
description of the district or parts of districts proposed to be altered and a
map accurately depicting the property proposed to be altered. Such petition
shall also recite facts indicating that the proposed change will not be
detrimental to the general public interest and the purposes of this title and
shall further disclose the purpose for which such property is sought to be
used.
C.   A petition for a change in the regulations or districts herein or
subsequently established shall be filed with the Village Clerk in duplicate. A
fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be paid at the time of filing to
cover the costs incidental to such hearing. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
10-3-3: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
A.   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions
of this title shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) or imprisoned for not to exceed one (1) month, or both, for
each offense. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute
a separate offense. The Village may seek declaratory or injunctive relief to
enforce the provisions of this title.
B.   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building, structure or land
is used in violation of this title, the Village, in addition to other remedies,
may institute any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such unlawful
erection, maintenance, or use to restrain, correct, or abate such violation, to
prevent the occupancy of said building, structure or land or to prevent any
illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about such premises. (Ord. 487, 1-
7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
ARTICLE A. BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS AND PLANNING
SECTION:
10-3A-1: Board Established
10-3A-2: Membership; Appointment; Terms Of Office
10-3A-3: Vacancies; Removal From Office
10-3A-4: Meetings
10-3A-5: Powers
10-3A-6: Procedure
10-3A-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED:
A Board of Zoning Appeals and Planning is hereby established. The word "Board",
when used in this article, shall be construed to mean the Board of Zoning
Appeals and Planning. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
10-3A-2: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; TERMS OF OFFICE:
The Board shall consist of seven (7) members appointed by the Mayor, with the
approval of the Board of Trustees. One of the members of the Board shall be
named as Chair at the time of his appointment. The members to serve
respectively for the following terms: one for one year, one for two (2) years,
one for three (3) years, one for four (4) years, one for five (5) years, one
for six (6) years and one for seven (7) years, the successor to each member so
appointed to serve for a term of five (5) years. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-
2002; amd. 2017 Code)
10-3A-3: VACANCIES; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of the member whose place has
become vacant. The Mayor, upon the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees,
shall have the power to remove any member of the Board for cause, after notice
and hearing. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
10-3A-4: MEETINGS:
A.   Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the Chair and at such
other times as the Board may determine.
B.   The Chair, or in his absence, the Acting Chair, may administer oaths and
compel the attendance of witnesses.
C.   All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public.
D.   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each
member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such
fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions,
all of which shall be immediately filed in the Office of the Village Clerk and
shall be a public record. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
10-3A-5: POWERS:
The Board of Zoning Appeals and Planning shall have the following powers:
A.   To hold public hearings on and, when in harmony with the general purpose
and intent of this title, to recommend to the Village Board to authorize or
deny a requested zoning amendment or a special use permit.
B.   To make recommendations to the Village Board to authorize or deny, after
public hearing as required by law, a variation in the strict application of the
regulations with respect to a specific lot where, by reason of exceptional
narrowness, shallowness or shape thereof or by reason of exceptional topography
or other extraordinary or exceptional situation or condition, the strict
application of any provision of this title would result in practical
difficulties or particular hardship. The Board of Zoning Appeals and Planning
shall require evidence that: 1) the property in question cannot yield a
reasonable return if permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by
the regulations in that zone; 2) the plight of the owner is due to unique
circumstances; 3) the variation, if granted, will not alter the essential
character of the locality or impair the general purpose and intent of the
Comprehensive Plan. Every variation shall be accompanied by findings of fact
and shall refer to any exhibits containing plans and specifications for the
variation, which shall remain a part of the permanent records of the Board of
Zoning Appeals and Planning. The findings of fact shall specify the reason or
reasons for making the variation. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
10-3A-6: PROCEDURE:
A.   Authority To Appeal: Petition to the Board of Zoning Appeals and Planning,
as authorized in this article, may be made by any person having legal standing.
B.   Filing Petition For Appeal; Fee: Action shall be taken within such time as
shall be prescribed by the Board by general rule, by filing with the Village
Clerk a petition for rezoning, special use, or variation, specifying the
grounds thereof. The Village Clerk shall forthwith transmit to the Board all
papers constituting the record from which the action appealed from is taken. A
fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) shall accompany all notices of appeals.
C.   Hearing, Notice And Recommendations: The Board shall fix a reasonable time
not longer than sixty (60) days after filing of the petition for the hearing of
the petition and give due notice of the time, place and purpose thereof, and
shall decide the petition within a reasonable time. The Board shall make its
findings and recommendations in writing and submit same to the Village Board
for action.
D.   Village Board Action: The Village Board shall receive and consider the
recommendations of the Board of Zoning Appeals and Planning made in accordance
with this title. The Village Board shall either return the matter to the Board
for further consideration, or shall, by ordinance, deny or grant the requested
relief within forty five (45) days after submission of the matter to the
Village Board. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
ARTICLE B. SPECIAL USE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-3B-1: Permit Required; Uses Enumerated
10-3B-2: Petition For Special Use; Public Hearing
10-3B-3: Compliance With Provisions; Exceptions
10-3B-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; USES ENUMERATED:
The Village Board of Trustees, by an affirmative two-thirds (2/3) vote, may, by
ordinance, grant a special permit for the following special uses in any
district, except as herein qualified, for which they are otherwise prohibited
by this title, and may impose appropriate conditions and safeguards, including
a specified period of time for the permit, to protect the Comprehensive Plan
and to conserve and protect property and property values in the neighborhood:
   Airport, landing field, or landing strip for aircraft.
   Bed and breakfast establishment in the R-1, R-2, R-3 and R-4 Districts.
   Car wash in the B-1 or M-1 District.
   Cemetery or mausoleum.
   Church and other place of worship in an M-1, Light Industrial District.
   Circus, amusement park or carnival grounds.
   Commercial, recreational or amusement development for temporary or seasonal
periods.
   Daycare center in the R-1, R-2, R-3, B-1 or M-1 District.
   Developmentally handicapped home in the R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 or B-1 District.
   Drive-in theater in the B-1 District.
   Hospital or clinic in any R, B, A, or M District.
   Mobile home court or travel trailer park in the A1 Nonurban District or R-
4 Single-Family District on a minimum of five (5) acres. Before permitting a
mobile home court or trailer park, the Village Board of Trustees shall approve
a special use permit and site plan as required in article C of this chapter.
The Board of Trustees shall satisfy itself that the court will not be injurious
to the use of other property in the immediate vicinity, that property values
will not be substantially impaired, that the court will not impede the normal
and orderly development of surrounding properties, and that the following
requirements will be met:
   A.   All appropriate State and County sanitation regulations shall be
strictly observed.
   B.   At least four thousand (4,000) square feet of lot area per mobile home
shall be provided; no mobile home shall be parked closer to the street or
highway than the required front yard setback or closer than twenty five feet
(25') to any property line; and a clearance of not less than twenty feet (20')
shall be maintained between mobile homes on all sides.
   C.   Mobile home spaces shall abut upon a hard surfaced driveway access of
not less than twenty five feet (25') in width.
   D.   Service building or other facilities for bathing, laundry and
sanitation, as required by the State and local health regulations, shall be
located at least twenty feet (20') from the side and rear lot lines, and shall
be accessible to all trailer coaches by means of the access drives or hard
surfaced walks.
   E.   Wherever practicable, space shall be reserved for recreation and a
playground.
   Privately or publicly operated community building or recreation field or
facility.
   Public or government building or facility.
   Quarry, mineral exploration, borrow pit or other extractive use, including
oil well.
   Storage warehouses and mini-warehouse in the A1, B-1 or M-1 District.
   Wireless communications facilities in the M-1 District.
   Animal Slaughtering, meat packing and processing facility/butcher shop in
the M-1 District. Before permitting an animal Slaughtering, meat packing and
processing facility/butcher shop, the Village Board of Trustees shall approve a
special use permit and site plan as required in article C of this chapter. The
Board of Trustees shall satisfy itself that the facility will not be injurious
to the use of other property in the immediate vicinity, that property values
will not be substantially impaired, that the facility will not impede the
normal and orderly development of surrounding properties, and that the
following requirements will be met:
   A.   Such use shall provide the Village Clerk with evidence that it has
complied with all Federal and State licenses, certifications, and other
regulations.
   B.   All appropriate federal, state, and local sanitation regulations shall
be strictly observed.
   C.   Sufficient safeguards in the form of buffering, screening, open space
or others, as determined by the Village Board shall be utilized.
   D.   All facilities for keeping or maintaining animals shall be completely
indoors and located so as to minimize noise discernable outside of the property
boundaries."
(Ord. 1174-2024, 9-3-2024)
10-3B-2: PETITION FOR SPECIAL USE; PUBLIC HEARING:
Before authorization of any of the above special uses, a petition for special
use permit shall be filed with the Board of Zoning Appeals and Planning for
study and report concerning the effect of the proposed use on the Comprehensive
Plan and on the character and development of the neighborhood. A public hearing
shall be held in relation thereto before the Board of Zoning Appeals and
Planning. Notice and publication of the time and place shall conform to the
procedure prescribed in this title for hearings on amendments. If no report is
transmitted by the Board of Zoning Appeals and Planning within sixty (60) days
of notification, the Village Board of Trustees may take action without further
awaiting such report. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
10-3B-3: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS; EXCEPTIONS:
Any proposed special use shall otherwise comply with all the regulations set
forth in this title for the district in which such use is located; except, that
the Village Board may permit hospitals and institutions to exceed the height
limitations of such district. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
ARTICLE C. SITE PLANS
SECTION:
10-3C-1: Purpose; When Required
10-3C-2: Information Required; Waivers
10-3C-3: Approval Procedure
10-3C-4: Plan On File; Notice To Proceed With Project
10-3C-1: PURPOSE; WHEN REQUIRED:
For the purpose of assuring good arrangement, appearance, function and harmony
with the objectives of the Comprehensive Plan and this title, site plans shall
be submitted, reviewed and approved for the following major uses before
construction of such use:
Any use in the B-1 District.
Any use in the M-1 District.
Two-family (duplex), attached single-family and multiple family dwellings
forming a part of a development of two (2) or more buildings or ten (10) or
more units (not including conversions of exiting residences) or any such
dwelling where off-street parking is to be provided in the required front yard.
(Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002; amd. 2017 Code)
10-3C-2: INFORMATION REQUIRED; WAIVERS:
A.   The site plan shall be drawn to scale and shall show the following:
   1.   The north point, scale and date.
   2.   Existing zoning and zoning district boundaries.
   3.   The boundaries of the property involved, County or Municipal
boundaries, the general location of all existing easements and property lines,
and existing streets, buildings and waterways.
   4.   Topography of the project area with contour intervals of five feet (5')
or less, unless waived by the Village Board as clearly unnecessary to review
the project.
   5.   The approximate location and size of sanitary and storm sewers, water
mains, culverts, and other underground structures, existing and planned, in or
near the project.
   6.   Proposed changes in zoning, if any.
   7.   The general location and character of construction of proposed streets,
alleys, driveways, curb cuts, entrances and exits, parking and loading areas
(including numbers of parking and loading spaces), storm drainage and sanitary
facilities.
   8.   The general location of proposed lots, setback lines, and easements and
proposed reservations for parks, parkways, playgrounds, school sites, and open
spaces.
   9.   Location of all proposed buildings and structures.
   10.   A tabulation of the total number of acres in the project. (Ord. 487,
1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
   11.   A tabulation of the total number of dwelling units of various types in
the project. (2017 Code)
B.   The Board of Zoning Appeals and Planning may establish additional
requirements for site plans and, in special cases, may waive a particular
requirement, if, in its opinion, the inclusion of that requirement is not
essential to a proper decision on the project. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-
2002)
10-3C-3: APPROVAL PROCEDURE:
The following procedure should be followed for site plan approval:
A.   Submission Of Plan; Fee: The applicant shall submit a site plan or plans
to the Village Clerk at least thirty (30) days prior to the next meeting of the
Board of Zoning Appeals and Planning, together with a nonrefundable site plan
review fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). The content of the site plan
shall be in accordance with section
10-3C-2 of this article. The Village Clerk shall submit the plan for review by
the Village Engineer and shall transmit the plan and report of findings to the
Board of Zoning Appeals and Planning.
B.   Examination Of Plan And Development: The Board of Zoning Appeals and
Planning shall examine the plan or plans for compliance with this title and the
requirements for site plans. The Board of Zoning Appeals and Planning shall
then examine the proposed development with respect to policies of the
Comprehensive Plan, traffic and circulation patterns, utilities, drainage and
community facilities, and other planning considerations.
C.   Approval, Approval With Conditions, Disapproval: Following the review, the
Board of Zoning Appeals and Planning shall approve, approve with conditions, or
disapprove the site plans. No public hearing shall be required.
D.   Appeals: Appeal of a decision by the Board of Zoning Appeals and Planning
on a proposed site plan shall be to the Village Board which may affirm or
reverse, with or without conditions, a decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals
and Planning. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
10-3C-4: PLAN ON FILE; NOTICE TO PROCEED WITH PROJECT:
The approved site plan shall be kept on file by the Village. If engineering
plans and profiles are required for the project, these shall be submitted to
the proper official. Following approval of the site plan and any required plans
and profiles, the Village Clerk shall issue a notice to proceed in letter form
stating that the site plan is in conformance with these regulations, and the
person may proceed to construct. Said notice to proceed may be revoked by the
Village for failure to comply with the approved site plan, the conditions
attached thereto, or other applicable regulations. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-
6-2002)
ARTICLE D. COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
SECTION:
10-3D-1: Plan Adopted
10-3D-1: PLAN ADOPTED:
The Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts as its Comprehensive Plan the Tax
Increment Finance Redevelopment Plan Study and, in order to conserve public
funds and utilize professional services to the greatest degree possible,
further finds that the findings and conclusions in said plan were intended to
serve such purpose when originally authorized and adopted by the Village Board.
(Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002; amd. Ord. 560-07, 3-19-2007; 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
10-4-1: Districts Established
10-4-2: Zoning Map
10-4-3: Boundaries Of Districts
10-4-4: Zoning Of Certain Lands
10-4-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
For the purposes of this title, all of the property within the Village limits
is hereby divided in the following districts:
 
A1  Nonurban District
R-1 Single-Family Residence District
R-2 Single-Family Residence District
R-3 Multiple Dwelling District
R-4 Multiple Dwelling, Attached Single-Family Dwelling and Mobile Home District
B-1 General Commercial District
M-1 Light Industrial District
 
(Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002; amd. Ord. 730-13, 5-6-2013)
10-4-2: ZONING MAP:
The boundaries of the zoning districts are hereby established as shown on the
official Village Zoning Map which is on file at Village Hall and is designated
as the "Zoning District Map". The Zoning District Map and all the notations,
references and other information shown thereon are a part of this title and
shall have the same force and effect as if such map and all the notations,
references and other information shown thereon were all fully set forth or
described herein, which Zoning District Map is properly attested and on file at
the Village Hall. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
10-4-3: BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICTS:
A.   District boundary lines on the zoning map are intended to follow either
streets or alleys or lot lines, and where the districts designated on the map
are bounded approximately by such street, alley or lot lines, the street, alley
or lot line shall be construed to be the boundary of the district unless such
boundary is otherwise indicated on the map. In the case of unsubdivided
property, the district boundary lines shall be determined by the use of the
scale appearing on the Zoning District Map or by dimensions.
B.   Where the boundary of a district follows a railroad line, such boundary
shall be deemed to be located midway between the main tracks of said railroad
line. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
10-4-4: ZONING OF CERTAIN LANDS:
A.   Annexed Land: All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the Village
shall automatically be zoned R-1 Single-Family Residence District when said
territory is annexed into the corporate limits.
B.   Vacated Public Ways: Whenever any street, alley, or other public way is
vacated by official action of the Village Board of Trustees, the zoning
district adjoining each side of such street, alley or public way shall be
automatically extended to the center of such vacation, and all area included in
the vacation shall then and henceforth be subject to all appropriate
regulations of the extended districts.
C.   Underwater Land: Any area within the corporate limits of the Village which
is underwater and not shown as included within any district shall be subject to
all of the regulations of the district which immediately adjoins the water
area. Where said water area adjoins two (2) or more districts, the boundaries
of each district shall be construed to extend to the center of the water area.
(Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
CHAPTER 5
A1 NONURBAN DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5-1: Regulations Established
10-5-2: Purpose
10-5-3: Permitted Uses
10-5-4: Area, Height And Setbacks
10-5-5: Off Street Parking
10-5-1: REGULATIONS ESTABLISHED:
The regulations set forth in this chapter, or set forth elsewhere in this title
when referred to in this chapter, are the regulations in the A1 Nonurban
District. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
10-5-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the A1 District is to provide for residential and agricultural
activities associated with farming or livestock production, and to provide for
protection of resources such as forested areas, waterways and areas of unusual
scenic value and, at the same time, to provide for rural residences on large
lots for those who choose a rural environment and to prevent the untimely
scattering of more dense urban uses which should be confined to areas planned
for efficient extension of public services. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
10-5-3: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are allowable in an A1 District:
Advertising sign or billboard when located at least fifty feet (50') from any R
district and in compliance with the regulations of the Department of
Transportation, State of Illinois.
Agricultural activities. Commercial agriculture including the raising, growing,
housing or other development of livestock and crops (including, but not limited
to, cattle, swine, horses, or poultry) for commercial purposes, which uses
shall be approved by the Illinois Department of Agriculture, if required by
applicable law.
Existing railroad right-of-way, not including switching, storage, freight yards
or siding.
Greenhouse or nursery.
Home occupation.
One-family dwelling and mobile homes.
Park, playground or forest preserve, school (public or private), golf course or
country club (but not miniature golf course or practice driving tee operated
for commercial purposes).
Roadside stand for the display or sale of farm products raised on the premises.
(Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002; amd. 2017 Code)
10-5-4: AREA, HEIGHT AND SETBACKS:
A.   Lot Area: No lot, tract, or block of land zoned A1 shall be less than two
(2) acres in area.
B.   Building Height: Buildings and/or structures constructed in the A1
District may be of any height and size.
C.   Setbacks: There shall be compliance with the setback requirements set
forth in chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
10-5-5: OFF STREET PARKING:
Off street parking space shall be provided as set forth in chapter 11 of this
title. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 6
RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6A-1: Regulations Established
10-6A-2: Purpose
10-6A-3: Permitted Uses
10-6A-4: Height, Area And Setbacks
10-6A-5: Off Street Parking
10-6A-1: REGULATIONS ESTABLISHED:
The regulations set forth in this article, or set forth elsewhere in this title
when referred to in this article, are the regulations in the R-1 Single-Family
Residence District. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
10-6A-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the R-1 District is to provide for low density single-family
residential development on moderate sized lots where water and sewer facilities
actually exist. The district is intended for application to areas where
urbanization and full utilities and public services exist. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002,
eff. 2-6-2002)
10-6A-3: PERMITTED USES:
A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
Accessory building or use, including a private garage, storage shed, greenhouse
or other aboveground accessory structure shall not exceed one thousand two
hundred (1,200) square feet in area or twenty feet (20') in height. No detached
accessory building shall be closer than ten feet (10') to the main building or
closer than six feet (6') to a rear lot line or three feet (3') to any side lot
line. If the accessory building is attached to the main structure, said
accessory building shall maintain the setbacks required of the main structure.
Aprons, patios, walks and driveways may occupy part or all of a rear yard.
Swimming pools may occupy part or all of a rear yard, but shall not be closer
than six feet (6') to any lot line.
Church or other place of worship or Sunday school.
Church or public bulletin board or temporary sign appertaining to the lease,
hire or sale of a building or premises, which sign or bulletin board shall not
exceed ten (10) square feet in area.
Country club or golf course, except miniature course or practice driving tee
operated for commercial purposes.
Existing railway right-of-way, not including switching, storage, freight yards
or sidings.
Fences within the required side and rear yards shall not exceed eight feet (8')
in height, as measured from the topmost point thereof to the ground or surface
along the centerline of the fence. Swimming pool aprons shall be enclosed by a
fence a minimum of four feet (4') in height. No electric or barb wire fences
are permitted. All fences, required or otherwise, shall be maintained in good
repair, meaning structurally sound and attractive in appearance.
Home occupation.
One-family dwelling.
Public school, elementary and high, or a private school having a curriculum the
same as ordinarily given in a public school.
Publicly owned or operated park, playground or community building, museum,
library, or art gallery. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002; amd. Ord. 684-12,
1-3-2012; 2017 Code)
10-6A-4: HEIGHT, AREA AND SETBACKS:
There shall be compliance with the height and area regulations and setback
requirements set forth in chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-
6-2002; amd. 2017 Code)
10-6A-5: OFF STREET PARKING:
Off street parking space shall be provided in accordance with the requirements
for specific uses set forth in chapter 11 of this title. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002,
eff. 2-6-2002; amd. 2017 Code)
ARTICLE B. R-2 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6B-1: Regulations Established
10-6B-2: Purpose
10-6B-3: Permitted Uses
10-6B-4: Height, Area And Setbacks
10-6B-5: Off Street Parking
10-6B-1: REGULATIONS ESTABLISHED:
The regulations set forth in this article, or set forth elsewhere in this title
when referred to in this article, are the regulations in the R-2 Single-Family
Residence District. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
10-6B-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the R-2 District is to provide for low density single-family
residential development on moderate sized lots where water and sewer facilities
actually exist. The district is intended for application to areas where
urbanization and full utilities and public services exist. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002,
eff. 2-6-2002)
10-6B-3: PERMITTED USES:
A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
Accessory building or use, including a private garage, storage shed, greenhouse
or other aboveground accessory structure, shall not exceed one thousand two
hundred (1,200) square feet in area or twenty feet (20') in height. No detached
accessory building shall be closer than ten feet (10') to the main building or
closer than six feet (6') to a rear lot line or three feet (3') to any side lot
line. If the accessory building is attached to the main structure, said
accessory building shall maintain the setbacks required of the main structure.
Aprons, patios, walks and driveways may occupy part or all of a rear yard.
Swimming pools may occupy part or all of a rear yard, but shall not be closer
than six feet (6') to any lot line.
Church or other place of worship or Sunday school.
Church or public bulletin board or temporary sign appertaining to the lease,
hire or sale of a building or premises, which sign or bulletin board shall not
exceed ten (10) square feet in area.
Country club or golf course, except miniature course or practice driving tee
operated for commercial purposes.
Existing railway right-of-way, not including switching, storage, freight yards
or sidings.
Fences within the required side and rear yards shall not exceed eight feet (8')
in height, as measured from the topmost point thereof to the ground or surface
along the centerline of the fence. Swimming pool aprons shall be enclosed by a
fence a minimum of four feet (4') in height. No electric or barb wire fences
are permitted. All fences, required or otherwise, shall be maintained in good
repair, meaning structurally sound and attractive in appearance.
Home occupation.
One-family dwelling and relocatable homes.
Public school, elementary and high, or a private school having a curriculum the
same as ordinarily given in a public school.
Publicly owned or operated park, playground or community building, museum,
library or art gallery. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002; amd. Ord. 684-12,
1-3-2012; 2017 Code)
10-6B-4: HEIGHT, AREA AND SETBACKS:
There shall be compliance with the height and area regulations and setback
requirements set forth in chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-
6-2002; amd. 2017 Code)
10-6B-5: OFF STREET PARKING:
Off street parking space shall be provided in accordance with the requirements
for specific uses as set forth in chapter 11 of this title. (Ord. 487, 1-7-
2002, eff. 2-6-2002; amd. 2017 Code)
ARTICLE C. R-3 MULTIPLE DWELLING DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6C-1: Regulations Established
10-6C-2: Purpose
10-6C-3: Permitted Uses
10-6C-4: Height, Area And Setbacks
10-6C-5: Off Street Parking
10-6C-1: REGULATIONS ESTABLISHED:
The regulations set forth in this article, or set forth elsewhere in this title
when referred to in this article, are the regulations in the R-3 Multiple
Dwelling District. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
10-6C-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the R-3 District is to provide land areas for development of
moderate density multiple-family dwellings including apartments, which areas
are served by utilities and well located with respect to public infrastructure.
(Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
10-6C-3: PERMITTED USES:
A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
Duplex.
Multiple dwelling structure not exceeding ten (10) dwelling units.
Nursing or convalescent home.
Single-family relocatable homes.
Accessory building or use customarily incidental to any of the above uses.
(Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
10-6C-4: HEIGHT, AREA AND SETBACKS:
A.   Building Height And Lot Area: The height and area regulations set forth in
chapter 9 of this title shall be observed.
B.   Setbacks:
   1.   There shall be compliance with the setback requirements set forth in
chapter 9 of this title.
   2.   If a duplex is constructed in an R-3 District, the interior side yard
setback shall be zero (0). (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
10-6C-5: OFF STREET PARKING:
Off street parking space shall be provided in accordance with the requirements
for specific uses set forth in chapter 11 of this title. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002,
eff. 2-6-2002; amd. 2017 Code)
ARTICLE D. R-4 MULTIPLE DWELLING, ATTACHED SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING AND MOBILE
HOME DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6D-1: Regulations Established
10-6D-2: Purpose
10-6D-3: Permitted Uses
10-6D-4: Height, Area And Setbacks
10-6D-5: Off Street Parking
10-6D-1: REGULATIONS ESTABLISHED:
The regulations set forth in this article, or set forth in this title when
referred to in this article, are the regulations in the R-4 Multiple Dwelling,
Attached Single- Family Dwelling and Mobile Home District. (Ord. 730-13, 5-6-
2013)
10-6D-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the R-4 District is to provide land areas for development of
high density multiple-family dwellings, including apartments, attached single-
family dwellings, and mobile homes, which are areas served by utilities and
well located with respect to public infrastructure. (Ord. 730-13, 5-6-2013)
10-6D-3: PERMITTED USES:
A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
Attached single-family dwelling.
Mobile home.
Multiple-family dwelling.
Nursing or convalescent home.
Accessory building or use customarily incidental to any of the above uses.
(Ord. 730-13, 5-6-2013)
10-6D-4: HEIGHT, AREA AND SETBACKS:
A.   Building Height And Lot Area: The height and area regulations set forth in
chapter 9 of this title shall be observed.
B.   Setbacks: There shall be compliance with the setback requirements set
forth in chapter 9 of this title; provided, however:
   1.   For all attached single-family dwellings, front, rear, and side yard
requirements from exterior building walls to lot lines or to other exterior
building walls shall comply with the requirements of chapter 9 of this title.
   2.   A zero side yard will be permitted in conjunction with a party wall on
an interior lot line used or adopted for joint service between two (2) single
dwelling units.
   3.   The establishment of interior lines bisecting a common wall for
attached single-family dwellings shall be permitted in accordance with the
Village land subdivision ordinance, title 11 of this Code.
   4.   When attached single-family dwellings are attached by common party
walls, each dwelling shall be self-sufficient for all utilities. (Ord. 730-13,
5-6-2013)
10-6D-5: OFF STREET PARKING:
Off street parking space shall be provided in accordance with the requirements
for specific uses set forth in chapter 11 of this title. (Ord. 730-13, 5-6-
2013; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 7
B-1 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7-1: Regulations Established
10-7-2: Purpose
10-7-3: Permitted Uses
10-7-4: Height, Area And Setbacks
10-7-5: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-7-1: REGULATIONS ESTABLISHED:
The regulations set forth in this chapter, or set forth elsewhere in this title
when referred to in this chapter, are the regulations in the B-1 General
Commercial District. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
10-7-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the B-1 District is to provide sufficient space in appropriate
locations for retail, office, and commercial activities generally serving a
wide area and located particularly along existing major thoroughfares where a
general mixture of commercial and service activities now exist. (Ord. 487, 1-7-
2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
10-7-3: PERMITTED USES:
A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
   Advertising sign or billboard when located at least fifty feet (50') from
any R District.
   Automobile service establishment.
   Automobile trailer or boat display and sales room.
   Bowling Alley.
   Business or commercial school.
   Dancing or Music Academy.
   Display room for merchandise to be sold at wholesale where merchandise sold
is stored elsewhere.
   Dyeing and cleaning establishment or laundry.
   Farm Implement display and sales room.
   Filling Station.
   Grocery store, frozen food locker.
   Hotel, motel.
   Milk distributing station.
   Motel or tourist home.
   Painting, plumbing or tinsmithing shop.
   Parking or public garage.
   Physician office, medical clinic, veterinarian or animal hospital or riding
academy; provided, that no such building, kennel, or exercise runway shall be
closer than fifty (50') feet to any R District.
   Plant nursery or greenhouse.
   Printing shop.
   Radio or television broadcasting station or studio.
   Restaurant, drive-in restaurant, or other similar place of entertainment or
amusement.
   Sale, leasing or rental of automobiles, trucks, recreational vehicles, boats
or motorcycles, including accessory sale of parts and equipment for, and
accessory service and repair to such vehicles.
   Theatre.
   Tire sales and services, including vulcanizing.
   Upholstering shop, not involving furniture manufacturing.
   Used car sales or storage lot.
   Other general retail, service or repair establishments of similar character
not inconsistent with this chapter.
   Dwellings on any floor above the first floor.
   Accessory building or use customarily incidental to any of the above uses.
All dumpsters, trash receptacles, and other trash service areas shall be
located within the side or rear yard to minimize the effect of their appearance
from any street, freeway, expressway and neighboring property. (Ord. 487, 1-7-
2002, eff. 2-6-2002; amd. Ord. 1134-2023, 5-1-2023)
10-7-4: HEIGHT, AREA AND SETBACKS:
There shall be compliance with the height and area regulations and setback
requirements set forth in chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-
6-2002; amd. 2017 Code)
10-7-5: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Off street parking and loading spaces shall be provided in accordance with the
requirements for specific uses set forth in chapter 11 of this title. (Ord.
487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 8
M-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-8-1: Regulations Established
10-8-2: Purpose
10-8-3: Permitted Uses
10-8-4: Height, Area, And Setbacks
10-8-5: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-8-1: REGULATIONS ESTABLISHED:
The regulations set forth in this chapter, or set forth elsewhere in this title
when referred to in this chapter, are the regulations in the M-1 Light
Industrial District. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
10-8-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the M-1 District is to provide sufficient space in appropriate
locations for certain types of business and manufacturing, relatively
nonoffensive, in modern buildings with landscaping. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff.
2-6-2002)
10-8-3: PERMITTED USES:
A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
Any use allowed in the B-1 District.
Generally, those light manufacturing uses similar to those listed below which
do not create any more danger to health and safety in surrounding areas and
which do not create any more offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, lint,
odor, heat or glare than that which is generally associated with light
industries of the following specifically permitted types:
A.   Manufacture or assembly of medical and dental equipment, drafting, optical
and musical instruments, watches, clocks, toys, games, and electrical or
electronic apparatus.
B.   Manufacture or assembly of boats, bolts, nuts, screws and rivets,
ornamental iron products, firearms, electrical appliances, tools, dies,
machinery and hardware products, sheet metal products, and vitreous enameled
metal products.
C.   Beverage blending or bottling, bakery products, candy manufacture, dairy
products and ice cream, fruit and vegetable processing and canning.
D.   Manufacture of rugs, mattresses, pillows, quilts, millinery, hosiery,
clothing and fabrics; printing and finishing of textiles and fibers into fabric
goods.
E.   Manufacture of boxes, furniture, cabinets, baskets, and other wood
products of similar nature.
F.   Compounding of cosmetics, toiletries, drugs, and pharmaceutical products.
Accessory uses.
Banks, drive-in or otherwise.
Dwellings for resident watchmen and caretakers employed on the premises.
Offices and office buildings.
Photographic processing or blueprinting.
Printing and publishing.
Railroad right-of-way or spur tracks.
Signs as permitted in the B-1 District.
Wholesale merchandising or storage warehouses. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-
2002)
10-8-4: HEIGHT, AREA, AND SETBACKS:
The height and area regulations and setback requirements set forth in chapter 9
of this title shall be observed. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002; amd. 2017
Code)
10-8-5: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Off street parking and loading spaces shall be provided in accordance with the
requirements for specific uses set forth in chapter 11 of this title. (Ord.
487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 9
HEIGHT AND SETBACK/AREA REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
10-9-1: Table Of Height And Setback/Area Requirements
10-9-2: Exceptions And Modifications To Requirements
10-9-2-1: Building Height
10-9-2-2: Yards
10-9-2-3: Lot Area Per Family
10-9-2-4: Lot Of Record In Commercial And Industrial Districts
10-9-2-5: Number Of Buildings Per Lot
10-9-3: Access Requirements
10-9-1: TABLE OF HEIGHT AND SETBACK/AREA REQUIREMENTS:
The required height and setback/area regulations of the Village zoning
districts are established and shown on the following table:
TABLE OF HEIGHT AND SETBACK/AREA REQUIREMENTS
         Maximum   Minimum     Minimum     Minimum   Minimum Lot Minimum Lot
District Height Of Depth Of    Either Side Depth Of  Area Per    Width
         Buildings Front Yard1 Yard        Rear Yard Family
                           Minimum  Minimum   Minimum   Minimum Lot
District   Maximum Height  Depth Of Either    Depth Of  Area Per    Minimum Lot
           Of Buildings    Front    Side Yard Rear Yard Family      Width
                           Yard1
A1         21/       35'   50'      25'       25'       2 acres     200'
Nonurban1  2 stories
R-
1 Single-  21/       35'   25'      10'       25'       9,000 sq.   50'
Family     2 stories                                    ft.
Residence
R-
2 Single-  21/       35'   25'      6'        25'       5,000 sq.   50'
Family     2 stories                                    ft.
Residence
R-                                                      5,000 sq.
3 Multiple 3 stories 45'   25'      10'       25'       ft.2        50'
Dwelling
R-
4 Multiple
Dwelling,
Attached                                                5,000 sq.
Single-    3 stories 45'   20'      10'       20'       ft.2        50'
Family
Dwelling
and Mobile
Home3
B-                                                      n/a -
1 General  3 stories 45'   20'      5' 4      5' 4      residence   n/a
Commercial                                              not
                                                        permitted
                                                        n/a -
M-1 Light  6 stories 75' 5 25'      5' 4      5' 4      residence   n/a
Industrial                                              not
                                                        permitted
 
Notes:
   1.    Unless greater distance required by County setback law.
   2.    In no event less than 1,000 square feet per family.
   3.    Mobile homes in the R-4 District shall comply with the requirements of
title 9, chapter 3 of this Code.
   4.    No building shall be closer than 50 feet to any side lot line, 25 feet
to any front or rear lot line of a lot in an R district.
   5.    Whenever a building in an M-1 District adjoins or abuts an R district
within 100 feet therefrom, such building shall not exceed 3 stories or 45 feet
in height unless it is set back 1 foot from the required side and rear yard
lines for each foot of additional height above 45 feet.
(Ord. 684-12, 1-3-2012; amd. Ord. 730-13, 5-6-2013; 2017 Code)
10-9-2: EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS TO REQUIREMENTS:
10-9-2-1: BUILDING HEIGHT:
A.   The height regulations prescribed herein shall not apply to television and
radio towers, wireless communications facilities, church spires, belfries,
monuments, tanks, water and fire towers, stage towers or scenery lofts, cooling
towers, ornamental towers and spires, chimneys, elevator bulkheads,
smokestacks, conveyors and flagpoles. (Ord. 705-12, 6-4-2012)
B.   Public, semipublic or public service buildings, hospitals, institutions or
schools, where permitted, may be erected to a height not exceeding sixty feet
(60'), and churches and temples may be erected to a height not exceeding
seventy five feet (75') when the required front, side and rear yards are each
increased by one foot (1') for each foot of additional building height above
the height regulations for the district in which the building is located.
C.   The limitation on number of stories shall not apply to buildings used
exclusively for storage purposes, provided such buildings do not exceed the
height in feet permitted in the district in which they are located. (Ord. 487,
1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
10-9-2-2: YARDS:
A.   Front Yards:
   1.   When fifty percent (50%) or more of the frontage on one (1) side of the
street between two (2) intersecting streets is improved with buildings that
have a front yard which is greater or less than the required front yard in the
district, no building shall project beyond the average front yard so
established; provided, however, that a front yard depth shall not be required
to exceed fifty percent (50%) in excess of the front yard otherwise required in
the district in which the lot is located.
   2.   On lots having double frontage, the required front yard shall be
provided on both streets.
   3.   No fence, sign, structure, or planting higher than thirty inches (30")
above the established street grades shall be maintained within twenty feet
(20') of any street intersection right-of-way.
   4.   An open, uncovered porch or paved terrace may project into a required
front yard for a distance of not more than ten feet (10'), but this shall not
be interpreted to include fixed canopies.
   5.   Filling station pumps and pump islands and signs may be located within
a required yard, provided they are not less than fifteen feet (15') from any
street line and not less than fifty feet (50') from the boundary of any
residential district.
B.   Side Yards:
   1.   On a corner lot, the width of the yard along the side street shall not
be less than any required front yard on such street; provided, however, that
the buildable width of a lot of record shall not be reduced to less than thirty
five feet (35').
   2.   No accessory building shall project beyond the required yard line along
any street.
   3.   Where dwelling units are erected above a commercial establishment, no
side yard is required except when required for the commercial building on the
side of a lot adjoining a residence district.
   4.   Where a lot of record on July 1, 2002, is less than fifty one feet
(51') in width, each of the required side yards may be reduced by an amount
equal to ten percent (10%) of the difference between such width and fifty one
feet (51'); provided, however, that no side yard shall be less than three feet
(3').
C.   Rear Yards:
   1.   Where a lot abuts upon an alley, one-half (1/2) the alley width may be
considered as part of the required rear yard.
   2.   No accessory buildings shall be closer than ten feet (10') to the main
building unless it is attached to or forms a part of such main structure, nor
closer than six feet (6') to a rear lot line or three feet (3') to any side lot
line.
   3.   The ordinary projections of sills, belt courses, cornices and
ornamental features may extend to a distance not to exceed eighteen inches
(18") into a required yard. Roofs and eaves may extend not more than thirty
inches (30") into a required yard.
   4.   Open or lattice enclosed fire escapes and the ordinary projections of
chimneys and flues into a rear yard may be permitted by the Village Board for a
distance not to exceed five feet (5') when these are so placed as not to
obstruct light and ventilation. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
10-9-2-3: LOT AREA PER FAMILY:
Where a lot of record on July 1, 2002, has less area or width than herein
required in the district in which it is located and the owner of such lot does
not own any other parcel or tract adjacent thereto, said lot may nonetheless be
used for a one-family dwelling or for any nondwelling use permitted in the
district in which it is located. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
10-9-2-4: LOT OF RECORD IN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS:
Where a lot of record exists on July 1, 2002, in a commercial or industrial
district prohibiting residences, such lot of record may be used for
construction of a single-family dwelling and must meet the yard requirements in
the applicable R District. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
10-9-2-5: NUMBER OF BUILDINGS PER LOT:
There may be two (2) or more related multi-family, commercial, industrial or
institutional buildings on a lot; provided, that the required yards are
maintained around the group of buildings. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
10-9-3: ACCESS REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Access to a use located on a collector or major thoroughfare as designated
in the Comprehensive Plan shall not have more than one (1) 24-foot wide
entrance to said thoroughfare for the parcel on which said use is located;
except, that a parcel having more than two hundred feet (200') of frontage on
said thoroughfare may have an additional twenty four foot (24') wide entrance.
B.   Any new entrance to a public street shall require an access permit in
accordance with Village standards.
C.   For all uses in the B-1 and M-1 Districts, there shall be provided a
clearly marked fire/emergency lane, not less than twelve feet (12') in width,
adjacent to all pedestrian doors and parking areas, plainly marked so as to
prohibit parking thereon or obstruction thereof in any way. (Ord. 487, 1-7-
2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
CHAPTER 10
SIGNS
SECTION:
10-10-1: Maximum Height And Area
10-10-2: Signs In And Adjacent To R Districts
10-10-1: MAXIMUM HEIGHT AND AREA:
No sign shall have a height of more than thirty feet (30'). No sign shall be
larger than one hundred fifty (150) square feet in area. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002,
eff. 2-6-2002)
10-10-2: SIGNS IN AND ADJACENT TO R DISTRICTS:
A.   Portable Signs: There shall be no portable signs placed on any lot in any
R district for a period longer than ten (10) days in any thirty (30) day
period. There shall be no portable signs placed in any lot in any A1, B, or M-
1 District for a period longer than thirty (30) days in any sixty (60) day
period. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002; amd. 2017 Code)
B.   Illuminated Signs:
   1.   No sign shall be illuminated in any R district.
   2.   No sign on any lot that is adjacent to any R district shall be
illuminated unless the illumination plan for such sign is approved by the Board
of Zoning Appeals and Planning. The illumination of the sign shall not
unreasonably interfere with the quiet enjoyment of the property in the R
district. (Ord. 487, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
CHAPTER 11
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
10-11-1: Parking Spaces On Same Lot; Exceptions
10-11-2: Parking Requirements For Certain Districts
10-11-3: Number Of Parking Spaces
10-11-4: Number Of Loading Spaces
10-11-1: PARKING SPACES ON SAME LOT; EXCEPTIONS:
A.   All parking spaces required herein shall be located on the same lot with
the building or use served; except, that where an increase in the number of
spaces is required by a change or enlargement of use, or where such spaces are
provided collectively or used jointly by two (2) or more buildings or
establishments, the required spaces may be located not to exceed three hundred
feet (300') from a residential building served and not to exceed five hundred
feet (500') from any nonresidential building served.
B.   In any case where the required parking spaces are not located on the same
lot with the building or use served, or where such spaces are collectively or
jointly provided and used, a written agreement to assure their retention for
such purposes shall be properly drawn and executed by the parties concerned,
approved as to form by the Village. (Ord. 684-12, 1-3-2012)
10-11-2: PARKING REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN DISTRICTS:
Parking in the indicated districts shall be in accordance with the following
requirements:
A.   B And M Districts: Off street parking facilities and the required parking
facilities in any B or M District may be located in the front yard but shall
not be nearer than twenty feet (20') to an R-1 or R-2 District.
B.   R Districts:
   1.   Driveways and surfaced parking areas shall not occupy more than fifty
percent (50%) of the front yard of any parcel in an R District except for
parcels occupied by multiple dwellings.
   2.   In a residential district, no recreational vehicle or trailer may park
other than on private property and shall not cause a visibility obstruction at
the intersection of street rights-of-way. No vehicle or trailer shall be used
as a dwelling while parked on private property.
   3.   Trucks and trailers in excess of twelve thousand (12,000) pounds
designed and manufactured for or used for specific commercial purposes
including, but not limited to, wreckers, dump trucks, tracked vehicles, buses,
construction vehicles, equipment carriers, bottling works delivery trucks,
grain trucks and refrigerated trucks are prohibited from parking in an R
District. No vehicle in excess of twelve thousand (12,000) pounds gross vehicle
weight, excluding recreational trailers and recreational vehicles, shall be
parked in an R District.
   4.   Inoperable or unlicensed passenger vehicles and trailers shall be
parked within an enclosed structure in an R District. (Ord. 684-12, 1-3-2012)
   5.   Not more than five (5) licensed vehicles, including allowed
recreational vehicles and trailers, shall be permanently parked on a parcel of
property in an R-1, R-2, R-3 or R-4 District. (Ord. 730-13, 5-6-2013)
C.   Exceptions: Any type commercial vehicle, regardless of gross vehicle
weight, delivering or picking up merchandise for delivery or employed in
performing a repair or construction service may park for the purpose of making
such pick up or delivery or for the duration of the period during which a
repair or construction service is being performed on or to property in the area
where parked. (Ord. 684-12, 1-3-2012)
10-11-3: NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES:
A.   Enumerated: In all districts, there shall be provided at the time any
building or structure is erected or structurally altered (except as specified
in subsections B and C of this section) minimum off street parking spaces in
accordance with the following requirements:
Type Of Use Parking Space Required
Type Of Use                             Parking Space Required
Boarding house or lodging house         2, plus 1 for each lodging room
Business or professional office (other  1 per 300 square feet
than medical or dental)
Church or temple                        1 for every 4 seats in the main
                                        auditorium
                                        1 for every 10 students based upon the
College or high school                  maximum number of students attending
                                        the school at any 1 period of the day
Community center, library, museum or    10, plus 1 additional for every 300
art gallery                             square feet of floor area in excess of
                                        2,000 square feet
Country club or golf club               1 for every 5 members
Dance hall, meeting or conference       1 for every 100 square feet of floor
facility, assembly or exhibition hall   area used thereof
without fixed seats
Dwellings: single-family, two-family,
multiple-family and attached single-    2 for each dwelling unit
family
Furniture or appliance store, hardware
store, wholesale establishment,         2, plus 1 additional for every 300
machinery or equipment sales and        square feet of floor area over 1,000
service, clothing or shoe repair or     square feet
service shop
Hospital                                1 for each bed
                                        1 for each guestroom, plus spaces
Hotel, motel or motor hotel             required for restaurant, rental or
                                        other commercial floor space in the
                                        establishment
                                        1 for every 2 employees on the maximum
Manufacturing or industrial             working shift, plus sufficient parking
establishment, research or testing      spaces to accommodate the overlap of
laboratory, creamery, bottling plant,   arriving and departing employees in
warehouse or similar establishment      multiple working shifts and spaces to
                                        accommodate all trucks and other
                                        vehicles used in connection therewith
Medical offices or clinics              1 per 200 square feet of floor area; 10
                                        minimum for a clinic
                                        1 for every 50 square feet of floor
Mortuary or funeral home                space in slumber room, parlors or
                                        individual funeral home service rooms
Printing or plumbing shop or similar
service establishment                   1 for every 3 persons employed therein
 
Private club or lodge                   1 for every 10 members
Restaurant, nightclub, cafe or similar  1 for every 100 square feet of floor
recreation or amusement establishment   area
 
Retail store or personal service        1 for every 200 square feet of floor
establishment, except as otherwise      area
specified herein
Sanatorium, convalescent home, home for 1 for every 3 beds
the aged or similar institution
School (except high school or college)  1 for every 10 seats in the auditorium
                                       or main assembly room or 2 for each
                                        classroom, whichever is greater
Theater or auditorium (except school)   1 for every 4 seats or bench seating
                                        spaces
                                        For the uses not listed in this
                                        subsection, parking spaces shall be
Other uses                              provided on the same basis as required
                                        for the most similar listed use or as
                                        determined by the Village
 
(Ord. 684-12, 1-3-2012; amd. Ord. 730-13, 5-6-2013; 2017 Code)
B.   Computation Of Number Of Spaces: In computing the number of such parking
spaces required, this shall be construed to be the nearest whole number; and in
the case of mixed uses, the parking spaces required shall equal the sum of the
requirements of the various uses computed separately.
C.   Increase In Number Of Spaces Required:
   1.   Whenever a building or use constructed or established after the
effective date hereof is changed or enlarged in floor area, number of
employees, number of dwelling units, seating capacity or otherwise to create a
need for an increase of ten percent (10%) or more in the number of existing
parking spaces, such spaces shall be provided on the basis of the enlargement
or change.
   2.   Whenever a building or use existing prior to the effective date hereof
is enlarged to the extent of fifty percent (50%) or more in floor area or in
the area used, said building or use shall then and thereafter comply with the
parking requirements set forth herein. (Ord. 684-12, 1-3-2012)
10-11-4: NUMBER OF LOADING SPACES:
Every building or part thereof erected or occupied for retail business,
service, manufacturing, storage, warehousing, hotel, mortuary or any other use
similarly involving the receipt or distribution by vehicles of materials or
merchandise shall provide and maintain on the same premises one loading space
for every ten thousand (10,000) square feet or fraction thereof of floor area
in the building. (Ord. 684-12, 1-3-2012)
CHAPTER 12
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-12-1: Short Title
10-12-2: Purpose
10-12-3: Solar Energy System - General Regulations
10-12-1: SHORT TITLE:
   This Chapter shall be known and may be sited as the Dieterich Solar Energy
Systems Regulations.
(Ord. 1158-2024, 4-1-2024)
10-12-2: PURPOSE:
   The purpose of this Chapter 12 is to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations for the location, installation, operation and maintenance of Solar
Energy Systems; to assure that any development and production of Solar Energy
Systems is safe and to minimize any potentially adverse effects on the
community; to promote the supply of sustainable and renewable energy resources,
in support of national, state and local goals; and to facilitate energy cost
savings and economic opportunities for residents and businesses situated within
the corporate limits and or extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Village of
Dieterich, Illinois. (Ord. 1158-2024, 4-1-2024)
10-12-3: SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM - GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   Solar Energy Systems may be erected or installed on properties within the
corporate limits of the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, in accordance with this
Chapter, as well as all State and Federal laws and regulations, as amended from
time to time, concerning the use and operation of said Solar Energy System, and
shall be further subject to the following standards:
   A.   Except as authorized by the Board of Trustees for public utility and/or
public infrastructure purposes and except for Ground Mounted Solar Energy
Systems granted a special use permit under Section 10-3B-1, Solar Energy
Systems shall only be permitted if accessory to a principal building and/or
principal use.
   B.   Any person seeking to erect, construct, install, or maintain an
interconnected Solar Energy System on property located within the corporate
limits of the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, shall submit an application to
the Village Clerk prior to the installation of any Solar Energy System. As part
of the application, a person seeking to erect, construct, install, or maintain
an interconnected Solar Energy System shall also submit a written narrative
and/or graphic form, which includes all of the items below: 
      1.   Name, address, and telephone number of property owner;
      2.   Name, address, and telephone number of the installer of the Solar
Energy System;
      3.   Description of the proposed Solar Energy System indicating the
following:
         a.   Plan showing the proposed location of the Solar Energy System;
         b.   System dimensions and specifications;
         c.   Evidence showing compliance with all applicable setback
requirements;
         d.   Evidence showing compliance with applicable setback and/or height
regulations;
         e.   Distance to any roads or overhead utility lines; and,
         f.   Compliance with each regulation contained in this Chapter 12.
         g.   All Solar Arrays with building mounted inverters or arrays with
inverters mounted on the array within ten (10) feet of a structure, shall
comply with NEC 2020 rapid shut down requirements.
      4.   The permit application shall be supplemented by any specifications,
plans, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Village
Clerk; and,
      5.   An application shall be accompanied by a Twenty Dollar ($20.00)
application fee, which shall be deposited with the Village Clerk.
   C.   Solar Energy Systems shall be installed according to manufacturer
specifications and in accordance with all applicable building codes, electrical
codes, fire codes, and other ordinances, codes, rules, and regulations
pertaining to Small Solar Energy Systems.
   D.   Electric solar energy system components must have a UL listing.
   E.   Solar Energy Systems shall have a lockable, utility accessible, load
breaking, manual disconnect switch, which can be utilized to connect and/or
disconnect all electric solar energy system components. The manual disconnect
switch shall be located not more than four (4) feet from the building’s
electric service meter. The manual disconnect switch shall not be obstructed
from access in any manner, including, but not limited to, landscaping, shrubs,
trees, terraces, fencing, etc.
   F.   All Solar Energy Systems shall have the following caution labels
installed and/or placed on said Solar Energy System:
      1.   A “Caution Solar Electric System” label shall be installed and/or
placed adjacent to the manual disconnect switch;
      2.   “Caution Solar Circuit” directional labels shall be placed on any
and all DC raceways and equipment and shall depict the direction of the
electrical flow inside said raceway and/or other equipment. Said “Caution Solar
Circuit” directional labels shall be located and spaced out not more than every
ten (10) feet along said raceway; and,
      3.   All caution labels shall be weather resistant and reflective, with a
red background and white lettering with a minimum of 3/8 inch lettering.
   G.   Reflection angles from Solar Collector Surfaces shall be oriented away
from residential buildings.
   H.   Type Permitted and Maximum Roof Area:
      1.   Flush Mounted Solar Energy Systems (6" or less) are permitted to be
installed on any roof area;
      2.   Non-Flush Mounted Solar Energy Systems are permitted on a building
with a flat roof if the Solar Collector Surface is completely screened from
view to an observer five (5) feet above the ground at any point along an
abutting property line;
      3.   Non-Flush Mounted Solar Energy Systems are prohibited on any roof
that is adjacent to the front yard and/or corner side yard;
      4.   The Solar Collector Surface area shall be set back on the roof as
follows:
         a.    Set back from the roof lower eves shall be no lower than six (6)
inches from the shingle line;
         b.   Set back from the roof top edge (ridge) a minimum of two (2)
feet;
         c.   Solar panels shall not extend past the roof edge on sides; and,
         d.   Set back from any roof equipment and/or other obstructions
(examples: chimneys, exhaust fans, vents, etc.) a minimum of one (1) foot,
except skylights shall have a minimum of two (2) feet;
   I.   Maximum Permitted Height & Building Projection/Extension:
      1.   The Solar Energy System shall conform to the height regulations of
the zoning district in which the property where the Solar Energy System is to
be installed, mounted, built is located;
      2.   Non-Flush Mounted Solar Energy Systems shall not extend above the
highest point on the roof line; and,
      3.   Solar Energy Systems shall not project/extend beyond the exterior
wall of any building on which said Solar Energy System has been installed,
mounted, or built.
   J.   Ground Mounted Solar Energy Systems. Ground Mounted Solar Energy
Systems shall be prohibited in the Village of Dieterich, Illinois, except by
the applicant securing a special use permit variance in accordance with Section
10-3B-1 of this Title 10.
   K.   Abandoned Systems. Any Solar Energy System that is inactive or
inoperable for a period of twelve (12) continuous months shall be deemed
abandoned. If the Solar Energy System is deemed abandoned, the owner is
required to repair or remove the Solar Energy System from the property at the
owner’s expense within ninety (90) days after notice from the Village.
(Ord. 1158-2024, 4-1-2024)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Purpose
11-1-2: Extra-Territorial Jurisdiction
11-1-3: Definitions
11-1-4: Variances
11-1-5: Amendments
11-1-6: Appendices Adopted
11-1-7: Validity
11-1-8: Enforcement
11-1-9: Violation; Penalty
11-1-1: PURPOSE:
This title is hereby enacted to provide for the health, comfort, safety and
convenience of the inhabitants of the Village and vicinity; to establish
reasonable standards of design for subdivisions and for resubdivision of
improved land and of areas subject for public service facilities, parks,
playgrounds, and other public grounds; to provide that no map or plat of a
subdivision within the corporate limits, as designated by the Village Board of
Trustees, shall be recorded unless it provides for streets, alleys and public
grounds in conformity with the adopted official plan for the Village. (Ord.
488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
11-1-2: EXTRA-TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION:
The Village Board of Trustees hereby elects not to exercise its extra-
territorial jurisdiction over that territory located within one and one-half
(11/2) miles from its corporate boundaries; provided, however, that the Village
Board of Trustees reserves its right to reconsider the exercise of the extra-
territorial jurisdiction, in accordance with applicable Illinois law and notice
provisions, at a later date. (Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
11-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, certain terms and words are defined as follows:
   ALLEY: A public right-of-way designed to serve as a secondary access to the
side or rear of those properties whose principal frontage is on a street.
   AREA:
Area, Gross: The entire area within the boundary lines of the property proposed
for subdivision/development, including any areas to be dedicated/reserved for
street and alley rights-of-way and for public uses.
Area, Net: The entire area within the boundary lines of the tract proposed for
subdivision, less the area to be dedicated for street and alley rights-of-way
and/or other public purposes.
   BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets or by a combination of streets,
public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, waterways or boundary lines
of the corporate limits of the Village.
   BOARD: Village Board of the Village of Dieterich.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The plan or any portion thereof adopted by the Village
of Dieterich for the coordinate physical development of Dieterich and environs.
   DRIVEWAY: Private accessway leading from a street or alley to a dwelling
unit or building.
   EASEMENT: A strip of land upon which the owner grants a right of use to
another for one (1) or more designated purposes.
   FLAG LOT: A lot fronting on or abutting a public road and where access to
the public road is by narrow, private right- of-way.
   FRONTAGE: The dimensions of a lot measured at the street right-of-way.
   IMPROVEMENT: Street work and utilities including, but not limited to, water,
sewer, electric, gas and storm drainage, to be installed or agreed to be
installed by the subdivider on land to be used for streets and/or easements, as
are necessary for the general use of lot owners in the subdivision, local
neighborhood traffic and drainage needs as a condition precedent to the
approval and acceptance of the final plat thereof.
   LOT: A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land established for
transfer of ownership or for building development, whether immediate or future.
   LOT WIDTH: The lesser of the width of a lot at the front building line or
back building line.
   OWNER: Any person, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, corporation,
trust, or any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary interest in the
land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain proceedings to subdivide
the same under this title.
   PARCEL: Any existing area of land under single ownership which may be
transferred according to applicable laws and ordinances without further
surveying or platting being required.
   PLANS: All drawings, including general plans, cross sections, profiles,
working details and specifications, which the subdivider prepares or has
prepared to show the character, extent and details of the improvements required
in chapter 5 of this title.
   PLAT: A map or drawing showing the lot and street arrangement or other
features or details of the area being subdivided as required in this title for
preliminary and final approval and recording.
   SETBACK LINE: A line that is roughly parallel to the front, side or rear lot
line establishing the minimum space to be provided as the front, side or rear
yard.
   STREET: A public or private thoroughfare which affords the principal means
of access to abutting properties and whether designated as a freeway,
expressway, thoroughfare, highway, road, parkway, avenue, boulevard, lane,
place, circle, or however otherwise designated.
   STREET, COLLECTOR: A street designated as a collector on the adopted Major
Streets Plan of the Village or a street in a proposed subdivision which is
intended to collect traffic from the minor streets within a neighborhood or a
portion thereof and to distribute such traffic to arterial thoroughfares, in
addition to providing access to properties abutting thereon.
   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC: A minor street having but one (1) end open for vehicular
traffic and with the other end permanently terminated by a circular turnaround.
   STREET, DEAD END: A street having only one (1) end open to vehicular
traffic; also referred to as a court.
   STREET, LOCAL OR MINOR: A street other than an arterial thoroughfare or
collector street and intended primarily for providing low volume traffic access
to abutting properties of limited number.
   STREET, MAJOR: A collector street or State or Federal highway.
   STREET, STUB: A street that is temporarily terminated with a T-turnaround
but is planned for future continuation.
   STREET, TURNAROUND: A temporary arrangement as shown in the Subdivision
Standards to provide a means for vehicles to turn around at the end of a stub
street.
   STREET, URBAN RESIDENTIAL NONCOLLECTOR: A local street in an area zoned
single-family residential.
   SUBDIVIDE: The process of dealing with land so as to establish a subdivision
as defined in this section.
   SUBDIVIDER: Any person, firm, association, syndicate, partnership,
corporation, trust, or any other legal entity, dividing or proposing to divide
land so as to constitute a subdivision as defined in this section and including
any agent of the subdivider.
   SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Either: 1) the division of land into two (2) or more parcels, any of
which is less than five (5) acres, except for a subdivision defined herein as a
minor subdivision; or 2) the establishment or dedication of land for all or a
portion of a road, highway, street, or alley upon a tract of land regardless of
size.
   B.   For purposes of this title, the following shall be considered a minor
subdivision; provided, that, such minor subdivision does not create lots or
parcels which conflict with the zoning regulations, as contained in title 10 of
this Code, the land subdivision regulations, as contained in this title, the
Village of Dieterich Comprehensive Plan, or the Official Map of the Village of
Dieterich:
      1.   The revision of lot width or lot depth in an approved subdivision
where all affected lots are under single ownership and which will not involve
any streets or easements of access or drainage and utility easements; or
      2.   The sale or exchange of a parcel of land, or any portion thereof,
between owners of adjoining and contiguous land, except where the transfer
results in the creation of another buildable lot.
   C.   For purposes of this title, the following shall not be considered a
subdivision:
      1.   The conveyance of parcels of land or interest therein for use as
right-of-way for railroads or other public utility facilities and other
pipelines which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
      2.   Conveyances relating to the dedication of land for public use or
instruments relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use; or
      3.   A conveyance made to correct a description in a prior conveyance.
   VILLAGE BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS AND PLANNING: Village of Dieterich Board of
Zoning Appeals and Planning.
   ZERO SIDE YARD LOT: A lot located in an R-3 or R-4 District of the Village
zoned for attached single-family housing (duplex). (Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-
6-2002; amd. Ord. 683-12, 1-3-2012; 2017 Code)
11-1-4: VARIANCES:
Whenever the tract to be subdivided is of such unusual size or shape or is
surrounded by such development or unusual conditions that the strict
application of the requirements contained in this title would result in real
difficulties or substantial hardship or injustice, the Board, after report by
the Board of Zoning Appeals and Planning, may vary or modify such requirements
so that the subdivider may develop his property in a reasonable manner, but so
that at the same time, the public welfare and interests of the Village and
surrounding area are protected and the general intent and spirit of this title
preserved. (Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
11-1-5: AMENDMENTS:
Any regulations or provisions of this title may be changed and amended from
time to time by the Village Board; provided, however, that such changes or
amendments shall not become effective until after study and report by the
Village Board of Zoning Appeals and Planning and until after a public hearing
has been held, public notice of which shall have been given in a newspaper of
general circulation at least fifteen (15) days prior to such hearing. (Ord.
488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
11-1-6: APPENDICES ADOPTED:
The appendices on file in the Village are hereby adopted and incorporated by
this reference as though fully stated herein. (Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-
2002)
11-1-7: VALIDITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this title is, for
any reason, held to be unconstitutional or void, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this title. (Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff.
2-6-2002)
11-1-8: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the responsibility of the Village to enforce the provisions of this
title. (Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002; amd. 2017 Code)
11-1-9: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
It shall be illegal to sell any lot, tract or property which does not conform
to the requirements and regulations of this title, and every such sale or
attempt to sell shall be subject to a fine of not less than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each lot or tract. (Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002;
amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PLATTING PROCEDURES GENERALLY
SECTION:
11-2-1: Plats Required
11-2-2: Preapplication Conference
11-2-3: Minor Subdivisions
11-2-4: Preliminary Plat
11-2-5: Final Plat
11-2-6: Recording Plats
11-2-7: Transfer Of Land; Access Permits
11-2-1: PLATS REQUIRED:
The owner, agent or person having control of any land within the corporate
limits of the Village who proposes to divide land into two (2) or more parcels,
any one (1) of which is less than five (5) acres, shall be required to
subdivide such land into lots, blocks, streets, avenues, alleys, public ways,
and grounds by a plat in accordance with the laws of the State of Illinois and
the provisions of this title. (Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
11-2-2: PREAPPLICATION CONFERENCE:
The subdivider shall meet with the Village Engineer (or his designee) prior to
submitting the preliminary plat. The purpose of this meeting is to discuss the
subdivision regulations and the procedure, criteria and standards contained
therein; and to familiarize the subdivider with the Village Comprehensive Plan
and proposals of the Plan affecting the area in which the subdivision lies.
(Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
11-2-3: MINOR SUBDIVISIONS:
Any person proposing to subdivide land as defined as a minor subdivision in
section
11-1-3 of this title, definition of subdivision, shall submit to the Village
Engineer a final plan prepared in accordance with the specifications of chapter
6 of this title. The design and layout of the subdivision shall conform to the
requirements of chapter 3 of this title. The Village Engineer shall submit the
plat of the minor subdivision to the Village Board for its consideration and
approval or disapproval. (Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
11-2-4: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
A.   Any person proposing to subdivide land, other than a minor subdivision,
shall submit to the Village Board of Zoning Appeals and Planning, through the
Village Engineer, for its consideration, a preliminary plat prepared in
accordance with the specifications of chapter 4 of this title. The design and
layout of the subdivision shall conform to the requirements of chapter 3 of
this title. Following consideration of the preliminary plat, the Board of
Zoning Appeals and Planning shall report its findings and recommendations in
writing to the Board for its consideration and approval or disapproval.
B.   If requested by the person offering the proposed preliminary plat, the
Village Engineer may permit such person to prepare a final plat for submission
to the Board at the same time the preliminary plat is submitted. (Ord. 488, 1-
7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
11-2-5: FINAL PLAT:
A.   When Submitted Concurrently With Preliminary Plat: Following the
recommendation for approval of the preliminary plat by the Board of Zoning
Appeals and Planning, the subdivider shall: 1) install the required
improvements (at his own risk); or 2) arrange to furnish a bond, letter of
credit, or similar security for such installation, all in accordance with the
requirements of chapter 5 of this title. Upon approval of the improvements, or
arrangements therefor, the final plat shall be submitted to the Village Board
in accordance with the provisions and requirements of chapter 6 of this title.
B.   When Preliminary Plat Has Had Prior Board Approval: Following approval of
the preliminary plat by the Board of Zoning Appeals and Planning and the Board,
the subdivider shall: 1) install the required improvements; or 2) arrange to
furnish a bond, letter of credit, or other security for such installation, all
in accordance with the requirements of chapter 5 of this title. Upon approval
of the improvements, or arrangements therefor, the final plat shall be
submitted to the Village Board in accordance with the provisions and
requirements of chapter 6 of this title. (Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
11-2-6: RECORDING PLATS:
No subdivision plat, as defined in this title, shall be filed for record or
recorded in the Office of the County Recorder of Deeds unless and until the
approval of the Board is endorsed thereon by the Village Clerk and unless and
until the property being subdivided conforms to the Village zoning regulations.
(Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
11-2-7: TRANSFER OF LAND; ACCESS PERMITS:
No parcel of land in a subdivision created after April 4, 1961, shall be
transferred, sold, or offered for sale; nor shall an access permit be issued
for any structure thereon; nor shall a certificate of occupancy for the use of
any land or structure thereon be issued until a plat of subdivision shall have
been recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds in accordance with this title.
Any person who violates this section shall be subject to the penalties
contained herein. (Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
CHAPTER 3
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Existing Topography
11-3-2: Streets And Alleys
11-3-3: Easements
11-3-4: Blocks
11-3-5: Lots
11-3-6: Maintenance Of Improvements Outside Corporate Limits
11-3-7: Engineer Review
11-3-1: EXISTING TOPOGRAPHY:
The arrangement of streets and lots shall give due regard to the topography and
other physical features of the property. (Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
11-3-2: STREETS AND ALLEYS:
A.   Relation To Adjoining Street System:
   1.   The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provision for
the continuation of the existing streets in adjoining areas (or their proper
projection where adjoining land is not subdivided) insofar as they may be
deemed necessary for public requirements.
   2.   The street and alley arrangements shall not be such as to cause
hardship to owners of adjoining property in platting their own land and
providing convenient access to it.
   3.   Offset streets shall be avoided where possible.
   4.   The angle of intersection between minor streets and major streets shall
not vary by more than ten degrees (10°) from a right angle. Streets obviously
in alignment with existing streets shall bear the names of the existing
streets.
   5.   Proposed street names that are in conflict with existing street names
shall not be approved. (Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
B.   Minimum Street Widths:
   1.   Right-of-way width for streets shall be a minimum of fifty feet (50')
for urban residential, non-collector streets and fifty feet (50') for all other
streets.
   2.   Pavement surface width shall be a minimum of twenty four feet (24')
from edge to edge of pavement (exclusive of curb and gutter width) for urban
residential, non-collector streets, and a minimum of twenty four feet (24')
from edge to edge of pavement (exclusive of curb and gutter width) for all
other streets.
C.   Alleys:
   1.   Alleys shall not be provided in a residential block.
   2.   Alleys are required at the rear of all business lots, unless other
adequate provisions are made for services and deliveries, and shall be at least
twenty feet (20') wide. (Ord. 875-18, 2-5-2018)
D.   Private Streets: There shall be no private streets platted in any
subdivision. (Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
11-3-3: EASEMENTS:
A.   Easements of at least ten feet (10') in width shall be dedicated on each
side of lot lines and street rights-of-way, where necessary, for Village
utilities and storm sewers. Easements of greater width may be required along or
across lots where necessary for the extension of main sewers or where both
water and sewer lines are located in the same easements. Additional easements
for other utilities shall be provided as necessary.
B.   Whenever any stream or surface drainage course is located in an area being
subdivided, the subdivider shall provide an adequate easement along each side
of the stream for the purpose of widening, deepening, sloping, improving or
protecting the stream, and such easement shall be dedicated to the Village or
other appropriate public agency. (Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
11-3-4: BLOCKS:
A.   No residential block shall be longer than one thousand two hundred feet
(1,200'). Where blocks are over seven hundred fifty feet (750') in length, a
crosswalk with a right-of-way of at least ten feet (10') in width may be
required near the center of the block. (Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
B.   Courts, dead end streets, or other street space may be provided if proper
access is given to all lots from a dedicated street or court. (Ord. 488, 1-7-
2002, eff. 2-6-2002; amd. 2017 Code)
11-3-5: LOTS:
A.   The lot arrangement and design shall be such that all lots will provide
satisfactory and desirable building sites, properly related to topography and
to the character of surrounding development.
B.   All side lines of lots shall be at right angles to straight street lines
and radial to curved street lines except where a variation of this rule will
provide a better street and lot layout. Lots with double frontage shall be
prohibited in residentially zoned areas.
C.   No lot other than a zero side yard lot shall have a depth of less than one
hundred feet (100') or a depth in excess of three (3) times its width. No lot
shall have an area or width less than that required by the zoning ordinance.
D.   Lots at street intersections shall have a radius of twenty feet (20') at
the street corner, except a chord may be required in lieu of the circular arc
where warranted.
E.   Corner lots shall have a width sufficient to permit the establishment of
front building lines on both sides of the adjoining streets.
F.   All lots shall front on a public street. The frontage of a lot shall be
not less than eighty percent (80%) of the width of a lot at the front setback
line.
G.   Flag lots shall be prohibited. (Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
11-3-6: MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS:
Where a subdivision outside the corporate limits contains sewers, sewage
treatment plants, water supply systems, park areas or other physical facilities
necessary or desirable for the welfare of the area and of common use or benefit
which the Village, Township, County or park district does not desire to
maintain, provision shall be made by trust agreements, deed restrictions or
other arrangements acceptable to the Village, for the proper and continuous
maintenance and supervision of such facilities by the lot owners in the
subdivision. (Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
11-3-7: ENGINEER REVIEW:
The standards set forth herein shall be considered minimum standards, and the
Village Engineer, upon concurrence of the Board, may increase or modify the
standards contained herein where, in the exercise of reasonable engineering
judgment and based upon the impact of the subdivision upon the public, the
circumstances require such increase or modification. (Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff.
2-6-2002)
CHAPTER 4
PRELIMINARY PLAT
SECTION:
11-4-1: Filing Preliminary Plat; Fees
11-4-2: Required Information
11-4-3: Approval Of Plat
11-4-1: FILING PRELIMINARY PLAT; FEES:
Six (6) copies of the preliminary plat, drawn to scale of not more than one
hundred feet to an inch (1" = 100'), shall be submitted to the Village Board of
Zoning Appeals and Planning through the Village Engineer. The plat shall be
accompanied by payment of a filing fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00)
or the sum of five dollars ($5.00) for each lot within the proposed
subdivision, whichever is greater, and a nonrefundable two hundred fifty dollar
($250.00) engineering review fee. In the event the engineering review cost to
the Village exceeds the two hundred fifty dollar ($250.00) engineering review
fee, the Village shall notify the person submitting the plat in advance, and
such person shall be responsible for such additional engineering review cost,
or such person may withdraw the plat. (Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
11-4-2: REQUIRED INFORMATION:
A.   The preliminary plat shall show:
   1.   The location of the present property lines and section lines and
streets, buildings, watercourses and other existing features within the area to
be subdivided and similar information regarding land immediately adjacent
thereto.
   2.   The proposed location and width of streets, alleys, lots and easements.
   3.   Existing sanitary and storm sewers, water mains, culverts and other
underground structures within the tract and immediately abutting thereto; the
location and size of the nearest water main and sewer outlet.
   4.   The title under which the proposed subdivision is to be recorded and
the name of the professional engineer, the registered land surveyor and the
subdivider platting the tract.
   5.   Contours referred to the Village datum with intervals of five feet (5')
or less.
   6.   The north point, scale and date.
   7.   Floodplain boundaries as shown on the Federal Emergency Management
Agency Flood Hazard Map.
   8.   Engineer's and owner's certificates related to topographical and
profile studies pertaining to surface drainage as required by 765 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 205/2. The engineer shall provide a copy of the drainage
study to the Village Engineer.
   9.   Plans or written statements describing the grades or profiles of the
streets, the proposed grades and facilities for all required improvements and
the subdivider's proposal to the Village for accomplishing their installation
in accordance with chapter 5 of this title.
   10.   The location of all setback lines.
B.   The preliminary plat shall have on its face a statement identifying any
aspects of the plat not in conformance with this title. (Ord. 488, 1-7-2002,
eff. 2-6-2002)
11-4-3: APPROVAL OF PLAT:
A.   If the Board of Zoning Appeals and Planning finds that the preliminary
plat satisfies the requirements of this title, it shall recommend approval by
the Board. If the Board of Zoning Appeals and Planning finds otherwise, it
shall specify in writing objections found to such plat and may either recommend
disapproval or recommend approval conditioned upon specific changes in the
plat.
B.   One (1) copy of the proposed plat, together with a copy of the findings of
the Board of Zoning Appeals and Planning, shall be submitted to the Board; one
(1) copy of the proposed plat and findings shall be retained by the Board of
Zoning Appeals and Planning; one (1) copy of the proposed plat and findings of
the Board of Zoning Appeals and Planning and the Board, if applicable, shall be
given to the person offering the proposed plat. (Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-
2002)
CHAPTER 5
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Plans And Specifications
11-5-2: Installation Of Improvements
11-5-3: Survey Monuments
11-5-4: Public Ways
11-5-5: Water Facilities
11-5-6: Sewer Facilities
11-5-7: Drainage
11-5-1: PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
A.   Preliminary Plans And Specifications:
   1.   The subdivider shall submit preliminary plans and specifications to the
Village Engineer for required improvements in compliance with applicable
policies and standards of the Village.
   2.   The Village Engineer shall review the preliminary plans and
specifications for minimum improvements and report these findings to the
subdivider.
   3.   If the Village Engineer shall find such preliminary plans and
specifications to be in accordance with applicable policies and standards of
the Village, he shall determine the amount of bond, letter of credit or other
security, if required.
   4.   Following the approval of the plans and specifications by the Village
Engineer, the subdivider may submit his final plat to the Village Clerk for
approval.
B.   Final Plans And Specifications: The final plans and specifications for
minimum improvements shall include the following:
   1.   Additional details required by the Village Engineer;
   2.   Appropriate permit applications required by other governmental
agencies;
   3.   Supporting engineering calculations as required by the Village
Engineer; and
   4.   Proposed construction schedule;
and shall be filed with the Village Engineer before construction commences,
unless a later date is approved by the Village Engineer. (Ord. 488, 1-7-2002,
eff. 2-6-2002)
11-5-2: INSTALLATION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
A.   Before Final Plat Approval Or Security In Lieu Thereof:
   1.   No final plat of any subdivision shall be approved unless: a) the
improvements listed in this chapter have been installed prior to such approval;
or b) the subdivider shall have arranged to file with the Village a performance
bond, letter of credit or other security to ensure the construction of the
improvements listed in this chapter in a satisfactory manner and within the
period specified by the Board, such period not to exceed twelve (12) months. No
performance bond, letter of credit or other security shall be accepted unless
it is enforceable by or payable to the Village in a sum at least equal to the
cost of construction of the improvements as estimated by the Village Engineer
and in a form and with security approved by the Village Board. All such
performance bonds, letters of credit or other security shall be secured with
deposits of cash, commercial surety company, bank letters of credit or other
similar guarantees approved by the Village Counsel.
   2.   The Village shall inspect the construction to assure compliance with
the approved plans and specifications. The cost of such inspection shall be
paid by the person submitting the plat. The Village Board may allow inspection
to be provided by the design engineer whose seal appears on the plans and
specifications for improvements in lieu of inspection by the Village. No
improvements shall be accepted unless inspected pursuant to this title and
found by the Village Board to meet the requirements of this title.
   3.   Should the period of time set by the Village lapse without completion
and acceptance of the improvements and without an extension of time being
granted, the Village shall take necessary steps to proceed with the
accomplishment and completion of the improvements, making use of the security
on the bond, letter of credit or other security.
   4.   For all subdivisions, a set of as built plans for all subdivision
improvements shall be filed in the Village Engineer's Office by the subdivider
upon completion of said improvements. The as built plans should have a
statement attached and signed and sealed by a registered engineer that the
improvements are correctly shown on the as built plans and conform to the
approved specifications. Such signature shall appear on all separate sheets
comprising the as built plans and specifications.
   5.   When the Village Engineer has ascertained that all the improvements
have been completed, that said improvements conform to the standards and
requirements of the Village, and a set of as built plans has been filed, the
Village shall accept the improvements by resolution and shall return all unused
security deposited by the subdivider.
B.   Part Of Improvements: The owner of a tract may prepare and secure approval
of a preliminary plat for the entire tract and may install the required
improvements only in a portion of such tract, but the improvements must be
installed or provision made for the installation in any portion of the area for
which a final plat is approved for recording; provided, however, that any water
mains, storm sewers, trunk sewers, and sewage treatment plants shall be
designed and built to serve the entire tract or designed and built in such a
manner that they can easily be expanded or extended to serve the entire tract.
(Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
11-5-3: SURVEY MONUMENTS:
All subdivision boundary corners shall be marked with survey monuments set
flush with the ground or other surface, two (2) of which shall be permanent
monuments. A permanent monument shall be deemed to be concrete with rod center
at least thirty inches (30") long with a minimum width of three inches (3").
Should conditions prohibit the placing of monuments on the line, off-set
monuments will be permitted; provided, however, that such monuments shall be
identified on the subdivision plat in relation to the true lines or corners.
Iron pipes or steel rods at least thirty inches (30") in length shall be set
flush with the ground at all lot corners. If survey monuments are removed
during construction, they shall be replaced by a registered land surveyor
before the final plat is approved and/or before improvements are accepted by
the Village. All subdivisions must be referenced to two (2) United States
Public Land Survey Corners of Record, and all monuments must conform to 765
Illinois Compiled Statutes 205/1. (Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
11-5-4: PUBLIC WAYS:
All streets, curbs and gutters, sidewalks and public ways shall be installed in
accordance with standards and specifications as established by the Village
Board. (Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
11-5-5: WATER FACILITIES:
A.   Each lot within a subdivision shall be provided with a connection to the
Village water system.
B.   Fire hydrants shall also be installed in all subdivisions, and the
location of the same shall be approved by the fire official.
C.   The water supply system shall be constructed under the direction and
control of, and all construction shall be subject to the approval of, the
Village and shall conform to Illinois Environmental Protection Agency rules,
regulations and standards. (Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002; amd. 2017 Code)
11-5-6: SEWER FACILITIES:
Each lot within a subdivision shall be provided with a connection to a sanitary
sewer, said sewer connection to terminate not less than two feet (2') inside
the curb line or easement line. All connections to the Village sewer system and
the subdivision sewer system shall comply with the ordinance of the Village
pertaining to sewers, and all construction of the system shall be subject to
the direction and approval of the Village Engineer. (Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff.
2-6-2002; amd. 2017 Code)
11-5-7: DRAINAGE:
The plat shall be laid out to provide proper drainage of the area being
subdivided, including facilities such as curbs and gutters, catch basins,
culverts, bridges and natural waterways. The design of the storm drainage
system shall be according to accepted engineering practices and Village
standards and specifications as established by the Village Board. (Ord. 488, 1-
7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
CHAPTER 6
FINAL PLAT
SECTION:
11-6-1: Description
11-6-2: Submission Of Final Plat; Recommendations
11-6-3: Required Information
11-6-4: Village Board Approval; Recording Final Plat
11-6-1: DESCRIPTION:
The final plat shall be drawn on tracing cloth, film acetate, or similar
permanent material at a scale of not more than one hundred feet to the inch (1"
= 100') from an accurate survey and on one (1) or more sheets where maximum
dimensions shall not exceed seventeen inches by twenty two inches (17" x 22").
If more than two (2) sheets are required, an index sheet of the same dimensions
shall be filed showing the entire subdivision on one (1) sheet and the
component areas shown on the other sheets. (Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
11-6-2: SUBMISSION OF FINAL PLAT; RECOMMENDATIONS:
The original and ten (10) prints of the final plat shall be submitted to the
Village Board of Zoning Appeals and Planning through the Village Clerk at least
one (1) week before the meeting thereon. When the final plat conforms to the
approved preliminary plat, if any, and the requirements of this chapter and
chapter 5 of this title have been accomplished, certification to this effect
shall be endorsed on the final plat by the Chair of the Board of Zoning Appeals
and Planning or evidenced by separate written certification from the Chair of
the Board of Zoning Appeals and Planning and the plat thereupon submitted to
the Board for its approval or disapproval. Where the final plat does not
conform to the approved preliminary plat, the Board of Zoning Appeals and
Planning shall submit its recommendations to the Board for approval or
disapproval of the final plat. (Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
11-6-3: REQUIRED INFORMATION:
The final plat and accompanying documents shall show:
A.   The boundary lines of the area being subdivided with accurate distances
and angles. The correct legal description of the property being subdivided
shall be shown on the plat.
B.   The lines of all proposed streets and alleys with their widths and the
names of all streets.
C.   An accurate outline of any portions of the property intended to be
dedicated or granted for public use.
D.   Floodplain boundaries as determined by the flood hazard maps of the
Federal Emergency Management Agency.
E.   The lines of all adjoining properties and the limits of adjoining streets
and alleys with their widths, and names of all streets.
F.   All lot lines and an identification of all lots and blocks.
G.   The location of all easements provided for public use, services or
utilities.
H.   All dimensions, both linear and angular, necessary for locating the
boundaries of the subdivision, lots, streets, alleys, easements and other areas
for public or private use. Linear dimensions are to be given to the nearest 1/
100th of a foot.
I.   The radii, arcs or chords, points of tangency and central angles for all
curvilinear streets and radii for rounded corners.
J.   The location of all survey monuments and their descriptions.
K.   The gross area, net area and lot area of the land being subdivided.
L.   The name of the subdivision and the scale of the plat, points of the
compass, and the name of the owner or owners or subdividers.
M.   A certificate signed and dated by the owner, appearing on the plat and on
all separate sheets comprising the plat acknowledging the private restrictions
spelled out on the plat. Should these restrictions or trusteeships be of such
length as to make their lettering on the plat impracticable and thus
necessitate the preparation of separate instrument, reference to such
instrument shall be made on the plat.
N.   A certificate of platting signed and dated by the owner, appearing on or
attached to the plat and on all separate sheets comprising the plat,
acknowledging the dedication to public use of all streets, alleys, parks or
other open spaces shown thereon and the granting of easements required. (Ord.
488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
O.   A certificate signed and dated by the owner and the Village Clerk stating
that there are no unpaid taxes or assessments upon any part of the area within
the subdivision. (Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002; amd. 2017 Code)
P.   A certificate signed, dated and sealed by a registered Illinois land
surveyor, attesting to the accuracy of the survey and the correct location of
all monuments shown on the plat.
Q.   A certificate signed and dated by a registered Illinois land surveyor
that:
   1.   The subdivision is or is not in a floodplain. (Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff.
2-6-2002)
   2.   The subdivision is or is not within the incorporated Village limits.
(Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002; amd. 2017 Code)
R.   A certificate for those subdivisions that border the water of the State of
Illinois to be approved by the Illinois Department of Transportation.
S.   A certificate for those subdivisions that front on a street maintained by
the Illinois Department of Transportation. (Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
11-6-4: VILLAGE BOARD APPROVAL; RECORDING FINAL PLAT:
After the approval of the final plat by the Village Board, said plat shall be
recorded in the County Recorder's Office. Within ninety (90) days of approval,
if not so recorded, such plat shall have no validity and shall not be recorded
without reapproval. (Ord. 488, 1-7-2002, eff. 2-6-2002)
 
