VILLAGE CODE
OF
DIVERNON, IL
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-004, passed March 26, 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the Village of Divernon, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 2025-004, passed March 26, 2025.
Ordinances of the Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions
of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the board of trustees, this code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official village code of Divernon. This code
of ordinances shall be known and cited as the DIVERNON VILLAGE CODE and is
hereby published by authority of the board of trustees and shall be
supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the village as
provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (1997 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the village of general and permanent effect, except
the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (1997 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(1997 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
board of trustees. The village clerk shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the clerk.
Any person having in his custody a copy of this code shall make every effort to
maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinances passed. He shall
see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the village
clerk. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the village and shall
be returned to the office of the village clerk when directed so to do by order
of the board of trustees. (1997 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the village passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
village; and all special ordinances. (1997 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of section
1-2-1 of this chapter, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1997 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any
offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the village
herein repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provisions; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
village under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code. (1997 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The board of trustees hereby declares that it
would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence,
clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases
be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1997 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this code by words importing the singular number only,
or the masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and females as
well as males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or where
the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the village has
been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the village's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1997 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meaning herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CODE: The municipal code of the village of Divernon.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a village employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
village of Divernon".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the village for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year of the village shall begin on May 1 in each year
and terminate on April 30 in each succeeding year.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the village, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a village officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the village
of Divernon".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STREET: Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
VILLAGE: The village of Divernon, county of Sangamon, state of Illinois.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his proper
mark. (1997 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1997 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Code Violations: Unless specifically provided elsewhere, any person
found to have been in violation of any of the terms and provisions of this code
shall be fined in an amount not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). No imprisonment for failure to pay such fine, penalty or cost shall
exceed six (6) months for each offense. Each day that a violation continues
shall be deemed to be a separate offense. A penalty for each offense may
include a requirement that the offending party perform some reasonable public
service work such as, but not limited to, picking up litter in public parks or
upon public highways or performing maintenance of public facilities. A
violation hereof may be established by a preponderance of the evidence.
   B.   Misdemeanors: If, by the terms of an ordinance, an act that would be
consistent with the criminal laws of the state is declared to be a misdemeanor,
the penalty therefor shall be for a period of incarceration in a penal
institution other than a penitentiary not to exceed six (6) months. The matter
shall be prosecuted under the rules of criminal procedure of the state, and the
village shall be required to establish guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. (1997
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/1-2-1.1.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Applicability: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable
to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of each and
every separate section.
   B.   Multiple Penalties: In all cases where the same offense is made
punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this code, the
prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Acts Or Omissions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do
any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and there
shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (1997 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the board of trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (1997 Code)
CHAPTER 5
VILLAGE PRESIDENT
SECTION:
1-5-1: Election And Term Of Office
1-5-2: Oath And Bond
1-5-3: Duties
1-5-4: Appointment Of Officers
1-5-5: Designation Of Duties
1-5-6: President Pro Tem
1-5-1: ELECTION AND TERM OF OFFICE:
The village president shall be elected for a term of four (4) years and shall
be president of the board of trustees as provided by statute 1 . (1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-5.
1-5-2: OATH AND BOND:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the president shall take the
oath of office prescribed by statute 1  and shall give bond with sureties to be
approved by the board of trustees, conditioned upon the faithful performance of
his duties, in the sum of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) as is provided by
statute 2 . (1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-25.
2 3. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-30. See also subsection 1-7-6B1 of this title.
1-5-3: DUTIES:
The president shall be the chief executive officer of the village and shall
perform all such duties as may be required of him by statute 1  or ordinance.
He shall have supervision over all of the executive offices of the village and
shall have the power and authority to inspect all books and records kept by any
officer at any reasonable time. (1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 4. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-5 et seq.
1-5-4: APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS:
The president shall appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the board of
trustees, all officers of the village whose appointment or election is not
otherwise provided for. Any vacancies occurring in such offices shall be filled
in the same manner. (1997 Code)
1-5-5: DESIGNATION OF DUTIES:
Whenever there is a dispute as to the respective duties or powers of any
officer of the village, this dispute shall be settled by the president, and the
president shall have the power to delegate to any officer any duty which is to
be performed when no specific officer has been directed to perform that duty.
(1997 Code)
1-5-6: PRESIDENT PRO TEM:
The board of trustees shall elect, annually, one of its number to act as
president pro tem who, during the absence or disability of the president, shall
perform the duties pertaining to the office. (1997 Code)
CHAPTER 6
VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Composition
1-6-2: Election
1-6-3: Meetings Of The Village Board
1-6-4: Attendance
1-6-5: Presiding Officer
1-6-6: President Pro Tem
1-6-7: Order Of Business
1-6-8: Rules Of Order
1-6-9: Committees
1-6-10: Ordinances
1-6-1: COMPOSITION:
The board of trustees shall consist of six (6) trustees and one president, who
shall preside over said village board of trustees. The president and the six
(6) trustees, aforesaid, and their successors in office, shall thenceforth be
considered a body corporate by the name and style of the president and the
board of trustees of the village of Divernon, Illinois. (1997 Code)
1-6-2: ELECTION:
The president and three (3) members of the board of trustees shall be elected
at the consolidated election in accordance with the statutes of the state of
Illinois made and provided 1 , said election to be held in April of 1989 and
every four (4) years thereafter. The remaining three (3) members of the village
board of trustees shall be elected at the consolidated election in April of
1991 and every four (4) years thereafter. In all cases, the office of the
president and the board of trustees, as aforesaid, shall be for a period of
four (4) years. (1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 10 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
1-6-3: MEETINGS OF THE VILLAGE BOARD:
   A.   Village Determination: It shall be the duty of said board to meet (as
determined by the board at the first regular meeting in May of each odd
numbered year, as to the number of meetings per month, and the time and place
of such meetings), but in any case, no less often than monthly to inquire into
the affairs of the corporation and to make such other ordinances and
regulations as may be necessary for the better regulation of the village;
provided, that it shall be the duty of the president to call special meetings
of the board whenever the nature of the case may require it.
   B.   Regular Meetings: The regular meetings of the village board shall be
held each month as set forth in subsection A of this section at the village
hall (unless otherwise specified); provided, that when the day (as specified)
shall fall on a legal holiday, then the regular meeting shall be held at a time
established by the board (day, hour and place to be published as soon after the
preceding meeting as possible, but no later than 72 hours prior to the meeting
to be held).
   C.   Special Meetings: It shall be the duty of the president to notify every
member of the board of trustees to attend any special meeting which may be
called and held, by notification to each member, served personally or left at
his usual place of abode, stating the object and purpose of the meeting, and no
business shall be transacted at the special meeting, except that mentioned in
the call or notice therefor. This notice shall be published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the area, not less than seventy two (72) hours (when
practical) before the date of the special meeting. (1997 Code)
1-6-4: ATTENDANCE:
It shall be the duty of every member of the board to be present on time at
every meeting of the board unless unavoidably prevented, and no member shall
absent himself during the session unless excused by a majority of the members
present. A majority of the board shall constitute a quorum. (1997 Code)
1-6-5: PRESIDING OFFICER:
The president shall preside at all meetings of the board and at all times the
board meets as a committee of the whole. Except as otherwise provided by law,
he shall not vote on any ordinance, resolution or motion except: a) where the
vote of the trustees has resulted in a tie; or b) where one-half (1/2) of the
trustees elected have voted in favor of an ordinance, resolution or motion,
even though there is no tie vote; or c) where a vote greater than a majority of
the corporate authorities is required by statute to adopt an ordinance,
resolution or motion. In each instance specified, the president shall vote.
(1997 Code)
1-6-6: PRESIDENT PRO TEM:
In the absence of the president at any meeting, the board shall elect one of
its members president pro tem, who, during such absence, shall possess the
powers of the president as is provided by statute 1 . An acting president or a
president pro tem may vote in his capacity as trustee, but he shall not be
entitled to another vote in his capacity as acting president or president pro
tem. (1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-35.
1-6-7: ORDER OF BUSINESS:
The order of business at meetings of the village board shall be as follows:
   Call to order.
   Reading of the minutes of preceding meeting (or copies of the minutes
furnished).
   Amendments and/or corrections of said minutes.
   Adoption or approval of minutes.
   Presentation, consideration, payment of bills.
   Acknowledgment of visitors (complaints).
   Committee reports.
   Old business.
   New business.
   Adjournment.
(1997 Code)
1-6-8: RULES OF ORDER:
The following rules shall be followed during any meeting of the board unless
suspended by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of all the members of said board that are
present at the meeting or unless the following rules be repealed, annulled,
amended or modified, which must be done by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of all the
elected members of the board:
   A.   The village board shall be governed by the usual parliamentary rules
governing deliberative bodies so far as applicable.
   B.   Every member, previous to his speaking, shall not proceed until
recognized and named by the president.
   C.   No member shall speak more than once until every member choosing to
speak shall have spoken, and no member will speak more than twice on the same
subject without leave of the board.
   D.   While any member is speaking, no member shall entertain or engage in
any discourse or pass between the speaker and the president.
   E.   While any question is being put or voted upon, no member shall walk
across or out of the room.
   F.   No motion shall be entertained unless seconded, and if any member
requires it, said motion shall be reduced to writing.
   G.   In all cases, the name of the member offering the resolution or motion
and the member seconding it shall be entered with it in the minutes.
   H.   All petitions, resolutions or reports shall be referred to an
appropriate committee and a report made thereon to the board by said committee
before any vote of the board is had upon the subject of said petitions,
resolutions or reports.
   I.   Every proposal involving the expenditure of money shall be referred to
an appropriate standing committee and a report made thereon to the board by
said committee before any vote of the board is had upon the expenditure.
   J.   Upon the passage of every ordinance or upon any proposal to create any
liability against the village or for the expenditure or appropriation of its
money or on any question before the board, if any two (2) members require it,
the "yeas" and "nays" shall be taken and entered upon the minutes.
   K.   No ordinance shall be passed or repealed, or contract entered into, or
appropriation of money made unless assented to in the affirmative by a vote of
the majority of the board members elected.
   L.   All votes taken in the board shall be cast orally, "yea" signifying the
affirmative, "nay" the opposite.
   M.   When a question is under debate, no motion shall be received unless it
be for the purpose to postpone the previous question or to table said question,
or to amend said question or to adjourn the board until the next meeting or
until a certain day.
   N.   A motion to adjourn shall always be in order and shall be decided
without debate. (1997 Code)
1-6-9: COMMITTEES:
   A.   Standing Committees: The board of trustees shall have six (6) standing
committees, each with two (2) members. The committees shall be as follows:
      Personnel and human resources.
      Public works:
      Streets and alleys.
      Utilities.
      Buildings, grounds, lights and technology.
      Finance.
      Health and safety.
      Community and economic development.
   B.   Special Committees: Special committees shall be created from time to
time as directed by the president. All committees and their chairpersons shall
be appointed by the president by and with the advice and consent of the board.
(Ord. 2-06, 4-26-2006)
1-6-10: ORDINANCES:
   A.   Recording:
      1.   All ordinances passed by the president and board of trustees of the
village shall be deposited in the office of the village clerk and shall be duly
recorded by the village clerk in the record book of ordinances, and
appropriately indexed by their titles or subjects.
      2.   Said village clerk shall make a good record of each ordinance
recorded as aforesaid, and the memorandum of the date of its passage and the
publication of said ordinance, when required to be published, which record or
memorandum or a certified copy thereof shall be prima facie evidence of the
passage and legal publication of said ordinance for all purposes whatsoever.
   B.   Corrections: The village clerk shall file and carefully preserve the
originals of all ordinances deposited in his office, and he may correct any
errors in the numbering of any chapter, article or section of any ordinance by
inserting the proper numbers and he may omit words inserted or supply with
brackets, words omitted by clerical mistake.
   C.   Publication: The village clerk shall cause every ordinance of the
president and board of trustees making an appropriation, imposing any fine,
penalty, forfeiture or imprisonment to be published within one month after the
passage thereof or be posted as required by law; provided, that nothing in this
subsection shall be deemed to apply to any ordinance included in any revision
or compilation of ordinances that may be published in book or pamphlet form,
that may be published by authority of the president or board of trustees.
   D.   Repealing Ordinances, Suits And Prosecution: No suit, proceeding, fine,
penalty, forfeiture, debt, writ or other liability whatsoever instituted,
incurred, created, given or provided by or under any ordinances of the village
prior to its repeal or modification shall be annulled, released, destroyed or
in any way affected by the passage of such repealing or modifying ordinance,
but the same may be prosecuted, recovered, completed and enjoined as fully in
all respects as if such ordinance or any part thereof shall have remained in
full force, unless otherwise expressly provided in the ordinance making such
repeal.
   E.   Penalty Clauses: When any fine or penalty shall have been provided by
the different ordinances or by the different sections or clauses of ordinances
of the village, for the same offense, the officer or person prosecuting same
may elect under which ordinance or section to prosecute, and not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense. (1997 Code)
CHAPTER 7
VILLAGE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Officers Defined
1-7-2: Appointment And Removal Of Officers
1-7-3: Eligibility For Office
1-7-4: Certificate Of Election Or Appointment
1-7-5: Oath
1-7-6: Bond
1-7-7: Designation Of Duties
1-7-8: Delivery Of Office To Successor
1-7-9: Records Open To Inspection
1-7-10: Personnel Policy Adopted
1-7-11: Employee Personnel Records
1-7-12: Prohibited Acts
1-7-13: Ethics
1-7-14: Compensation Of Elected Officials
1-7-15: Absence From Meetings
1-7-1: OFFICERS DEFINED:
   A.   Elected Officers: The elected officers of the village shall consist of
the president and the members of the board of trustees.
   B.   Appointed Officers: The village’s appointed officers shall consist of
the clerk, treasurer, chief/assistant chief of police, superintendent of public
works, village attorney, and the office manager, collector and bookkeeper.
   C.   Duties: The duties of each of the officers are as described in the
appropriate articles of this chapter.
(1997 Code; amd. Ord. 2025-004, 3-26-2025)
1-7-2: APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF OFFICERS:
   A.   Appointment By President: The president shall appoint all officers as
defined in subsection 1-7-1B of this chapter, subject to the advice and consent
of the board of trustees.
   B.   Temporary Officers: The president may appoint a person to a temporary
office for a period of not more than thirty (30) days without said advice and
consent.
   C.   Removal Of Officers: The board of trustees shall have power to remove
from office any of the officers of the village for just cause (malfeasance,
misfeasance or nonfeasance in office). (1997 Code)
1-7-3: ELIGIBILITY FOR OFFICE:
No person shall be eligible to any elected village office unless he is a
qualified elector of the village and has resided therein at least one year next
preceding his election or appointment. No person shall be eligible to any
village office who is a defaulter to the village. (1997 Code)
1-7-4: CERTIFICATE OF ELECTION OR APPOINTMENT:
Whenever a person has been elected or appointed to office, the president shall
issue a certificate of election or appointment to the clerk. All officers
elected or appointed, except the president, trustees and clerk, shall be
commissioned by warrant, under the corporate seal, signed by the president and
the clerk. (1997 Code)
1-7-5: OATH:
Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, all village
officers, whether elected or appointed, shall take and subscribe the following
oath:
I do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States
of America, and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and that I will
faithfully discharge the duties of             according to the best of my
ability.
This oath, so subscribed, shall be filed in the office of the village clerk.
(1997 Code)
1-7-6: BOND:
   A.   Bond Required: Before entering upon the duties of their respective
offices, all village officers, except trustees, shall execute a bond with
security, to be approved by the board of trustees. The bond shall be payable to
the village in whatever penal sum may be directed by resolution, conditioned
upon the faithful performance of the duties of the office and the payment of
all monies received by such officer, according to law and also the ordinances
of the village.
   B.   Bond Amounts:
      1.   President: In no case, however, shall the president's bond be fixed
at less than three thousand dollars ($3,000.00).
      2.   Treasurer: The treasurer's bond shall be an amount of money that is
not less than three (3) times the latest federal census population or any
subsequent census figure used for motor fuel tax purposes, or an amount that
may be established by a bond company to which the village is under obligation 1
. (1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  1-5-2 of this title.
1-7-7: DESIGNATION OF DUTIES:
Whenever there is a dispute as to the respective duties or powers of any
officer, advisor, employee or member of a board or commission of the village,
this dispute shall be settled by the president after consultation with the
village attorney, and the president shall have the power to delegate to any
appointed officer or employee any duty which is to be performed when no
specific officer has been directed to perform that duty. (1997 Code)
1-7-8: DELIVERY OF OFFICE TO SUCCESSOR:
   A.   Return Possession Of Village Property: Within five (5) days after
notification and request, any person who has been a village officer, employee,
advisor or member of a board or commission shall deliver to his successor in
office all property, books and effects in his possession, belonging to the
village or pertaining to the position he has held.
   B.   Refusal To Return Possession: Upon his refusal to do so, he shall be
liable for all the damages caused thereby and shall be liable to a fine as set
forth in section
1-4-1 of this title. (1997 Code)
1-7-9: RECORDS OPEN TO INSPECTION:
All records kept by any officer of the village shall be open to inspection by
the president or any member of the board, as prescribed by state statute, at
all reasonable times, whether or not such records are required to be kept by
statute or ordinance. (1997 Code)
1-7-10: PERSONNEL POLICY ADOPTED:
The most current personnel policy of the village is hereby adopted by reference
as if fully set out at length herein. Three (3) copies of said policy are on
file in the office of the village clerk for public use and inspection. (Per
correspondence dated 3-8-2013)
1-7-11: EMPLOYEE PERSONNEL RECORDS:
   A.   Employees shall have access to their personnel records. Each employee
shall be provided with a copy of all correspondence, forms and reports which
have a negative bearing and influence on his/her employment with the village. A
copy of all other correspondence, forms and reports having a direct and
personal bearing on or influence an employee's employment and career with the
village will be furnished to the employee upon request. These data may include,
but are not limited to: wages, hours of work, leaves, benefits, insurance,
disciplinary action, letters of recommendation and commendation, job related
documentation, licenses, course and performance evaluations, job description,
etc.
   B.   Employee personnel records are classified "confidential" and are
available for review by the employee and are not available for public
inspection, except as provided by law. Employees shall make advance
arrangements with the village president to review their personnel records.
   C.   Outside written requests for information regarding an employee shall be
limited to an acknowledgment that the person is an employee of the village. No
additional information such as quality of work, etc., shall be furnished.
However, the employee can request the village to release specific information
by authorizing the release in writing.
   D.   Outside requests over the telephone regarding a village employee shall
be limited to an acknowledgment that the person is employed by the village.
   E.   Any demand upon a village employee, by a person in authority, to sign
any blank form shall be considered coercion. An employee is not required to
sign such a form.
   F.   Any information included on a form or any modification or alteration of
a form subsequent to having been signed by the employee(s) shall be determined
invalid as it may affect the employee(s), his/her position or condition of
employment unless the changes are initialed by the employee. Employee(s)
required to sign any form shall be given a copy of the form when he/she affixes
his/her signature(s) or as soon after as possible.
   G.   Employee medical files will not be included in his/her personnel file.
They will be kept separate from personnel files and will be "confidential" and
locked in a cabinet or village safe. Medical files may include, but not limited
to: preemployment physicals, workers' compensation records, physician
statements of any kind, American with disabilities act requests and
documentation, etc. Employee medical files will be maintained by the village
president.
   H.   The official village personnel files will be maintained by the village
president. (Ord. EPR99-01, 12-22-1999)
1-7-12: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Misconduct: Every village officer who is guilty of a palpable omission
of duty, or who is guilty of wilful and corrupt oppression, malconduct or
misfeasance in the discharge of the duties of his office shall be guilty of a
business offense and, on conviction, shall be fined not exceeding one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00). The court in which such conviction is had shall enter an
order removing the convicted officer from office.
   B.   Impersonation: It shall be unlawful for any person to impersonate,
without lawful authority, any village officer or employee.
   C.   Interference With Officers: It shall be unlawful for any person to
interfere with or hinder any officer or employee of the village, in any manner,
while engaged in the duties of his office or employment. (1997 Code)
1-7-13: ETHICS:
   A.   State Regulations Adopted: The regulations of section 5-15 1  and
article 10 2  of the state officials and employees ethics act, 5 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 430/1-1 et seq. (hereinafter referred to as the "act" in this
section), are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the officers
and employees of the village to the extent required by 5 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 430/70-5.
   B.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the terms "officer" and
"employee" shall be defined as set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
70-5(c).
   C.   Interpretation: This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or
modify any existing ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of
village officers and employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances
or policies are less restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of
this section shall prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(a).
   D.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   Gifts:
         a.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be
solicited or accepted under the act by an officer or any employee of the
village is hereby prohibited.
         b.   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made
to an officer or employee of the village under the act is hereby prohibited.
      2.   Political Activities: The participation in political activities
prohibited under the act by any officer or employee of the village is hereby
prohibited.
   E.   Penalties: The penalties for violations of this section shall be the
same as those penalties set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for
similar violations of the act.
   F.   Amendments: Any amendment to the act that becomes effective after the
effective date hereof shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the village.
   G.   Unconstitutionality Of Provisions:
      1.   If the Illinois supreme court declares the act unconstitutional in
its entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the
Illinois supreme court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further
appeals or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further
action by the corporate authorities of the village if the act is found
unconstitutional by the Illinois supreme court.
      2.   If the Illinois supreme court declares part of the act
unconstitutional but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the act,
or does not address the remainder of the act, then the remainder of the act as
adopted by this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that
part of this section relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional
shall be deemed repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of
the village. (Ord. EEO-05-01, 5-12-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/5-15.
2 2. 5 ILCS 430/10-10 - 10-40.
1-7-14: COMPENSATION OF ELECTED OFFICIALS:
   A.   Statute Reference: Compensation of elected officials, including those
of home rule units, must be fixed by ordinance at least one hundred eighty
(180) days before the beginning of the terms of the officials whose
compensation is to be fixed.
   B.   Compensation Established: All officials of the village elected into the
following offices at the general election on April 4, 2023 and thereafter
elected, will be compensated as follows:
      1.   Trustee: Seventy-five dollars ($75.00) per regularly scheduled or
special board meeting attended plus one hundred ($100.00) per month for
committee activity.
      2.   Clerk: Five hundred dollars ($500.00) per month.
      3.   Mayor: Five hundred dollars ($500.00) per month. (Ord. EO-00-01, 9-
27-2000; amd. Ord. 2022-002, 8-24-2022)
1-7-15: ABSENCE FROM MEETINGS:
   A.   If an elected official cannot attend a regularly scheduled board
meeting, he or she will notify the mayor as soon as possible and explain why he
or she can not attend. All elected officials will be given two (2) excused
absences per fiscal year. Emergency situations will be handled on a case by
case basis by the mayor.
   B.   If an elected official missed two (2) or more meetings in a fiscal year
and did not contact the mayor, the board of trustees will take appropriate
action, up to and including voluntary resignation from the position. (Ord. EO-
00-01, 9-27-2000)
ARTICLE A. VILLAGE CLERK
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Appointment And Term
1-7A-2: Oath And Bond
1-7A-3: Duties
1-7A-4: Deputy Clerk
1-7A-1: APPOINTMENT AND TERM:
   There is hereby created the office of village clerk who shall be appointed
by the village president, with the advice and consent of the board of trustees,
as is provided by statute. The appointee shall serve for one year or until his
successor is appointed and qualified.
(1997 Code; amd. Ord. 2025-004, 3-26-2025)
1-7A-2: OATH AND BOND:
   The clerk shall take the oath of office as required by statute. The clerk
shall give a bond before entering upon the duties of his office in the sum
required by the board of trustees, but such amount shall not be less than three
(3) times the latest federal census population or any subsequent census figure
used for motor fuel tax purposes. This bond shall be conditioned upon the
faithful performance by the clerk of his duties and shall be conditioned to
indemnify the village for any loss by reason of any neglect of duty or any act
of the clerk.
(Ord. 2025-004, 3-26-2025)
1-7A-3: DUTIES:
   A.   Records:
      1.   Records Of The Board: It shall be the duty of the clerk to keep a
journal and a record of all the proceedings, and to file all receipts and to
issue all orders that may be required of him by the board of trustees. He shall
further enter upon record in the journal all the proceedings of the village
board, all rules, regulations, ordinances and resolutions at full length.
      2.   Register Of Licenses And Permits: In addition to the record of
ordinances and other records which the clerk is required by statute to keep, he
shall keep a register of all licenses and permits issued, and the payments
thereon; a record showing all of the officers and regular employees of the
village and such other records as may be required.
      3.   Preservation Of Records: The clerk shall also file conveniently,
safely keep and faithfully preserve all original ordinances, bonds, books,
papers or other documents that may come into his hands and belong to his
office. He shall have custody of and in like manner file and keep all books,
papers, maps, drawings and documents belonging to the village and not in actual
use by any other officer of the village.
   B.   Signatures: The clerk shall also file conveniently, safely keep and
faithfully preserve all original ordinances, bonds, books, papers or other
documents that may come into his hands and belong to his office. He shall have
custody of and in like manner file and keep all books, papers, maps, drawings
and documents belonging to the village and not in actual use by any other
officer of the village.
   C.   Seal: The clerk shall be the custodian of the village seal, and shall
affix its impression on documents whenever this is required.
   D.   Additional Duties: The clerk shall perform such duties and functions as
may be required by statute or as set forth from time to time by the board.
(1997 Code; amd. Ord. 2025-004, 3-26-2025)
1-7A-4: DEPUTY CLERK:
   A.   Appointment; Duties: The clerk is hereby authorized to appoint a deputy
clerk by and with the advice and consent of the board of trustees. Said deputy
clerk shall have the power and duty to execute all documents required to be
executed by the clerk and affix the seal of the village thereto whenever
required. Such deputy clerk shall act at such times as hereinafter provided. In
signing any documents, said deputy clerk shall sign the name of the clerk
followed by the word "by" and the deputy clerk's own signature and the words
"deputy clerk".
   B.   Act In Absence Of Clerk: The powers and duties hereinabove described
shall be exercised by the deputy clerk only in the absence of the clerk from
the clerk's office, and only when either written direction has been given by
the clerk to the deputy clerk to exercise such power, or the village board has
determined by resolution that the clerk is temporarily or permanently
incapacitated to perform such functions.
   C.   Additional Powers: The deputy clerk shall also have the authority and
powers usually exercised by the clerk, and such further power and authority as
provided for by statute or as may hereinafter be granted pursuant to statute.
(1997 Code; amd. Ord. 2025-004, 3-26-2025)
ARTICLE B. VILLAGE TREASURER
SECTION:
1-7B-1: Office Created; Appointment And Term
1-7B-2: Oath And Bond
1-7B-3: Duties
1-7B-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT AND TERM:
There is hereby created the office of village treasurer who shall be appointed
by the village president, with the advice and consent of the board of trustees,
as is provided by statute 1 . He shall serve for one year or until his
successor is appointed and qualified. (1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5.
1-7B-2: OATH AND BOND:
The treasurer shall take the oath of office as required by statute2. The
treasurer shall give a bond before entering upon the duties of his office in
the sum required by the board of trustees, but such amount shall not be less
than three (3) times the latest federal census population or any subsequent
census figure used for motor fuel tax purposes3. This bond shall be conditioned
upon the faithful performance by the treasurer of his duties and shall be
conditioned to indemnify the village for any loss by reason of any neglect of
duty or any act of the treasurer. This part does not apply if the village
chooses to contract with a firm that is licensed with the State of Illinois,
and bonded. (1997 Code; amd. Ord. 2022-004, 9-28-2022)
1-7B-3: DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The treasurer shall perform such duties as may be prescribed
for him by statute or village ordinance 1 . He shall receive all money paid to
the village either directly from the person paying the money or from the hands
of some other officer or employee as may receive it, and he shall pay out money
only on voucher or orders properly signed by the village president and village
clerk.
   B.   Deposit of Funds: The treasurer shall deposit the funds of the village
in such depositories as may be selected, from time to time, as provided by law
and shall keep the deposit of the village money separate and distinct from
their own money and shall not make private or personal use of any village
money. This part does not apply if the village chooses to contract with a firm
that is licensed with the State of Illinois. In this case, the village office
manager, and their substitute, will be bonded and responsible for payments and
deposits. In this case the village office manager or their substitute will
deposit the funds of the village in such depositories as may be selected, from
time to time, as provided by law and shall keep the deposit of the village
money separate and distinct from their own money and shall not make private or
personal use of any village money.
   C.   Records And Reports:
      1.   The treasurer shall keep the records showing all money received by
him, showing the source from which it is received and the purpose for which it
is paid, and he shall keep records at all times showing the financial status of
the village.
      2.   The treasurer shall make monthly reports to the board of trustees
showing the state of the finances of the village and the amount received and
spent during the month, which reports shall be filed. The treasurer shall make
an annual report prior to May 1 with the total of all receipts and expenditures
of the village and his transactions as treasurer during the preceding fiscal
year.
   D.   Accounting: The treasurer shall keep such books and accounts as may be
required by statute or village ordinance 2 , and he shall keep them in the
manner required by the board of trustees.
   E.   Register Of Warrants: The treasurer shall keep a register of all
warrants, bonds or orders filed with him or paid by him and all vouchers as is
required by statute 2 . (1997 Code; amd. Ord. 2022-004, 9-28-2022)
 
Notes
1 4. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40 et seq.
2 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-45.
ARTICLE C. VILLAGE ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-7C-1: Creation Of Office; Appointment
1-7C-2: Powers And Duties
1-7C-3: Compensation
1-7C-1: CREATION OF OFFICE; APPOINTMENT:
There is created the office of village attorney, an executive office of the
village. The village attorney shall be appointed by the village president, by
and with the advice and consent of the village board. (1997 Code)
1-7C-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Suits And Actions: The village attorney shall prosecute or defend any
and all suits or actions at law or equity to which the village may be a party,
or in which it may be interested, or which may be brought against, or by, any
officer of the village on behalf of the village or in the capacity of such
person as an officer of the village.
   B.   Judgments: It shall be the duty of the village attorney to see to the
full enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered or entered in favor of
the village and of all similar interlocutory orders.
   C.   Advice: The village attorney shall be the legal advisor of the village
and shall render advice on all legal questions affecting the village, whenever
requested to do so by any village official. Upon request by the village
president or by the village board, he shall reduce any such opinion to writing.
   D.   Special Assessments: It shall be the duty of the village attorney to
see to the completion of all special assessment proceedings and condemnation
proceedings.
   E.   Ordinances, Documents: It shall be the duty of the village attorney to
draft or supervise the phraseology of any contracts, leases or other documents
or instruments to which the village may be a party and, upon request by the
village board, to draft ordinances covering any subjects within the power of
the village.
   F.   Additional Duties: The village attorney shall perform such other
professional services incident to his office as may be required by the board of
trustees or any of its committees. (1997 Code)
1-7C-3: COMPENSATION:
The village attorney shall receive the compensation established by the board of
trustees. He may also receive reimbursement from the village for expenses
incurred in attending meetings of the board of trustees or for such other
expenses as may be incurred when in the course of his duties as village
attorney. (1997 Code)
ARTICLE D. SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
SECTION:
1-7D-1: Office Created; Appointment And Term
1-7D-2: Qualifications
1-7D-3: Duties
1-7D-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT AND TERM:
There is hereby created the office of superintendent of public works who shall
be appointed by the village president, with the advice and consent of the board
of trustees, and who shall hold office for a term of one year or until his
successor is appointed and qualified. (1997 Code)
1-7D-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
The superintendent of public works shall have the qualifications that allow him
to perform the duties of his office. (1997 Code)
1-7D-3: DUTIES:
The superintendent of public works shall perform the duties ascribed to him by
the president and board of trustees. (1997 Code)
CHAPTER 8
MUNICIPAL FINANCES
SECTION:
1-8-1: Claims Against The Village
1-8-2: Investment Policy
1-8-1: CLAIMS AGAINST THE VILLAGE:
   A.   Affidavit Of Claim: No account or claim against the village, except for
the salaries of village officers or for the contract price of a specific
contract made by the village president and board of trustees or by some officer
or committee authorized by the board to make the same, shall be considered or
allowed nor shall any warrant be issued for the payment thereof, unless the
person presenting such claim shall file with it the affidavit of himself or
some credible person that the account or claim is just, correct and reasonable,
and wholly unpaid.
   B.   Examination Of Claim: No claim or account against the village upon any
contract made by any officer or committee of the village president and board of
trustees shall be considered or allowed, nor shall any warrant be issued for
the payment thereof, unless the officer or committee by whom the said contract
was made shall first certify that he has examined the said account or claim and
has examined the work done or materials furnished, and that the same is in
accordance with the contract; that the same is just, correct and reasonable,
and is wholly unpaid.
   C.   Issuance Of Claims, Signatures: All warrants issued for the payment of
money shall be issued by order of the board and signed by the president of the
board of trustees and village clerk. (Ord., 4-20-1908)
1-8-2: INVESTMENT POLICY:
   A.   Village Policy: It is the policy of the village to invest public funds
in a manner which will provide the highest investment return with the maximum
security while meeting the daily cash flow demands of the village and
conforming to all state and local statutes governing the investment of public
funds.
   B.   Scope: This policy includes all funds governed by the board of
trustees.
   C.   Prudent Investments: Investments shall be made with judgment and care,
under circumstances then prevailing, which persons of prudence, discretion and
intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for
speculation, but for investment, considering the probable safety of their
capital, as well as the probable income to be derived.
   D.   Objectives:
      1.   The primary objective, in order of priority, shall be:
         a.   Legality: Conformance with federal, state and other legal
requirements.
         b.   Safety: Preservation of capital and protection of investment
principal.
         c.   Liquidity: Maintenance of sufficient liquidity to meet operating
requirements.
         d.   Yield: Attainment of market rates of return.
      2.   The portfolio should be reviewed periodically as to its
effectiveness in meeting the village needs for safety, liquidity, rate of
return, diversification and its general performance.
   E.   Delegation Of Authority To Invest: Management and administrative
responsibility for the investment program is hereby delegated to the
chairperson of the finance committee who, under the delegation of the board of
trustees, shall establish written procedures for the operation of the
investment program.
   F.   Ethics And Conflicts Of Interest: Officers and employees involved in
the investment process shall refrain from personal business activity that could
conflict with the proper execution and management of the investment program, or
that could impair their ability to make impartial decisions.
   G.   Authorized Financial Dealers And Institutions: The chairperson of the
finance committee will maintain a list of financial institutions authorized to
provide investment services. In addition, a list will also be maintained of
approved security brokers/dealers selected by creditworthiness.
   H.   Authorized And Suitable Investments: Investments may be made in any
type of security allowed in Illinois statutes regarding the investment of
public funds. Investments shall be made that reflect the cash flow needs of the
fund type being invested.
   I.   Collateralization: Funds on deposit (checking accounts, certificates of
deposit, etc.) in excess of FDIC limits must be secured by some form of
collateral, witnessed by a written agreement and held at an independent third
party institution in the name of the village.
   J.   Safekeeping And Custody: All security transactions, including
collateral for repurchase agreements, entered into by the village shall be
conducted on a delivery versus payment (DVP) basis. Securities will be held by
an independent third party custodian designated by the chairperson of the
finance committee and evidenced by safekeeping receipts and a written custodial
agreement.
   K.   Diversification: The village shall diversify its investments to the
best of its ability based on the type of funds invested and the cash flow needs
of those funds. Diversification can be by type of investment, number of
institutions invested in, and length of maturity.
   L.   Maximum Maturities:
      1.   To the extent possible, the village shall attempt to match its
investments with anticipated cash flow requirements. Unless matched to a
specific cash flow, the village will not directly invest in securities maturing
more than one year from the date of purchase.
      2.   Reserve funds may be invested in securities exceeding two (2) years
if the maturity of such investments is made to coincide as nearly as
practicable with the expected use of the funds.
   M.   Internal Control: The village treasurer is responsible for establishing
and maintaining an internal control structure designed to ensure that the
assets of the village are protected from loss, theft or misuse. The internal
control structure shall be designed to provide reasonable assurance that these
objectives are met. The internal controls shall address the following points:
      1.   Control of collusion.
      2.   Separation of transaction authority from accounting.
      3.   Custodial safekeeping.
      4.   Written confirmation of telephone transactions for investments and
wire transfers. (Per correspondence dated 6-9-1999)
   N.   Performance Standards: The investment portfolio will be managed in
accordance with the parameters specified within this policy. The portfolio
should obtain a comparable rate of return during a market/economic environment
of stable interest rates. Portfolio performance should be compared to
benchmarks with similar maturity, liquidity and credit quality as the
portfolio. (Per correspondence dated 6-9-1999; amd. per correspondence dated 4-
23-2013)
   O.   Reports Required:
      1.   The village treasurer shall prepare an investment report at least
monthly. The report should be provided to the board of trustees and available
on request. The report should be in a format suitable for review by the general
public. An annual report should also be provided to the board.
      2.   A statement of the market value of the portfolio shall be issued to
the board of trustees quarterly.
   P.   Annual Review Of Policy: The policy shall be reviewed on an annual
basis by the chairperson of the finance committee and the village treasurer,
and any modifications made thereto must be approved by the board of trustees.
(Per correspondence dated 6-9-1999)
CHAPTER 9
CORPORATE SEAL
SECTION:
1-9-1: Seal Established
1-9-1: SEAL ESTABLISHED:
The corporate seal of the village shall be a circular disk one and three-
fourths inches (13/4") in diameter, with the words and figures "Incorporated
January 2, 1900, Illinois" supplemented by a scroll inscribed with the words
"Corporate Seal, Village of Divernon" in Roman capitals 1 . (Ord., 4-20-1908)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 1-7A-2C of this title for village clerk as custodian of
  seal.
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY
SECTION:
2-1-1: Definitions
2-1-2: Limitations
2-1-3: Agency Created; Membership; Jurisdiction
2-1-4: Coordinator
2-1-5: Functions
2-1-6: Local Disaster Emergencies
2-1-7: Purchasing And Expenditures
2-1-8: Oath
2-1-9: Testing Of Disaster Warning Devices
2-1-10: Authority To Accept Services, Gifts, Grants Or Loans
2-1-11: Nonliability Of Village
2-1-12: Appropriation And Tax Levy
2-1-13: Compensation
2-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
COORDINATOR: The staff assistant to the president of the village of Divernon
with the duty of carrying out the requirements of this chapter.
DISASTER: An occurrence or threat of widespread or severe damage, injury or
loss of life or property resulting from any natural or manmade cause including,
but not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, oil spill or other
water contamination requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage,
epidemic, air contamination, blight, drought, infestation, explosion, riot,
accident, or hostile military or paramilitary action. "Disaster" includes, but
is not limited to, all occurrences and threats thereof, which are contemplated
by the concept of "emergency services and disaster operations".
DISASTER OPERATIONS: The functions created in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter to be performed by the village of Divernon and other political
subdivisions to alleviate the effects of disasters.
EMERGENCY SERVICES: The preparations for and the carrying out of such functions
as may be necessary or proper to prevent, minimize, repair and alleviate injury
and damage resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, earthquake,
accident, or other manmade or natural causes. These functions include, without
limitations, firefighting services, police services, medical and health
services, rescue, engineering, air raid warning services, communications,
radiological, chemical and special weapons defense, evacuation of persons from
stricken areas, emergency assigned functions of plant protection, temporary
restoration of public utility services and other functions related to civilian
protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the
preparation for the carrying out of the foregoing functions.
POLITICAL SUBDIVISION: Any county, city, village or incorporated town.
UNITED STATES: The several states, the District Of Columbia, and the
possessions thereof. (Ord. ESDA-0401, 4-27-2004)
2-1-2: LIMITATIONS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to:
   A.   Interfere with the course or conduct of a private labor dispute;
except, that action otherwise authorized by this chapter or other laws may be
taken when necessary to forestall or mitigate imminent or existing danger to
public health or safety.
   B.   Interfere with the dissemination of news or comment of public affairs,
but any communications facility or organization (including, but not limited to,
newspapers and radio and television stations) may be requested to transmit or
print public service messages furnishing information or instructions in
connection with a disaster or emergency.
   C.   Affect the jurisdiction or responsibilities of police forces,
firefighting forces, units of the armed forces of the United States, or any
personnel thereof, when on active duty, but the village emergency preparedness
plan shall place reliance upon such forces available for performance of
functions related to disaster emergencies.
   D.   Limit, modify, or abridge the authority of the village president or the
board of trustees vested in them under the constitution, statutes, or common
law of this state or the village, independent of or in conjunction with any
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. ESDA-0401, 4-27-2004)
2-1-3: AGENCY CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; JURISDICTION:
   A.   Agency Created: There is hereby created an emergency services and
disaster agency to prevent, minimize, repair and alleviate injury or damage
resulting from disaster caused by enemy attack, sabotage, or other hostile
action, or from a natural or manmade disaster, in accordance with "the Illinois
emergency management act of 1992". This agency will supersede any civil defense
agency heretofore authorized, and shall be known as the village emergency
services and disaster agency (hereinafter ESDA).
   B.   Membership: The village ESDA shall consist of the coordinator and other
such technical, clerical, and administrative personnel as may be selected by
the coordinator with the approval of the village president. The coordinator may
make such expenditures within his appropriation in accordance with the
guideline set forth by the village for expenditures, as may be necessary to
carry out the purpose of this chapter.
   C.   Jurisdiction: The village ESDA shall have jurisdiction over and serve
the entire village, village property not located within the corporate limits of
the village and, with the approval of the village board of trustees, any other
area which may decide to contract with the village for emergency services and
disaster assistance. (Ord. ESDA-0401, 4-27-2004)
2-1-4: COORDINATOR:
   A.   Appointment And Term: The coordinator of the village ESDA shall be
appointed by the president of the village with the concurrence of the board of
trustees and shall serve until removed by same.
   B.   Responsibilities: The coordinator shall have direct responsibility for
the organization, administration, training and operation of the village ESDA as
prescribed in the village emergency preparedness plan subject to the direction
and control of the village president. He shall coordinate the activities of all
operations within the area served by the village ESDA and shall maintain
liaison and cooperate with the county and state officials.
   C.   Acting Coordinator: In the event of the absence, resignation, death, or
inability of the coordinator to serve, the president of the village, or any
person designated by him, shall act as coordinator until a new appointment is
made as provided by the village ordinances. (Ord. ESDA-0401, 4-27-2004)
2-1-5: FUNCTIONS:
   A.   Prepare and keep current a disaster emergency plan for the village
ESDA.
   B.   Interrelate with business, labor, industry, agriculture, civic and
volunteer organizations and community leaders in the development of such plan.
   C.   Prepare and distribute to all appropriate officials in written form a
clear and complete statement of the emergency responsibilities of all local
departments and offices and of the disaster chain of command.
   D.   Cooperate with all other emergency services and disaster agencies.
   E.   Establish, train and maintain such communications unit(s) as may be
deemed proper by the village board of trustees.
   F.   Establish, train and maintain such other volunteer ESDA units as may be
deemed proper by the coordinator or village president to place the village in a
position to promptly and efficiently respond to disaster.
   G.   Prepare, for issuance by the village president or board of trustees,
resolutions, proclamations, and regulations as necessary or appropriate in
coping with disaster.
   H.   Cooperate with the federal, state and county or local government and
any public or private agency or entity in achieving any purpose of this chapter
and in implementing programs for disaster prevention, preparation, response,
and recovery.
   I.   Do all other things necessary, incidental or appropriate for the
implementation of this chapter. (Ord. ESDA-0401, 4-27-2004)
2-1-6: LOCAL DISASTER EMERGENCIES:
   A.   Declaration Of Emergency; Effect:
      1.   The village president or village board of trustees only may declare
a local disaster emergency. If declared by the village president, it shall not
continue for a period in excess of seven (7) days except by or with consent of
the village board of trustees. Any order or proclamation declaring, continuing
or terminating a local disaster emergency shall be given prompt and general
publicity, and shall be filed promptly with the village clerk.
      2.   The effect of a local disaster emergency is to activate the response
and recovery aspects of the village emergency preparedness plan and to
authorize the furnishing of aid and assistance thereunder. (Ord. ESDA-0401, 4-
27-2004)
   B.   National Incident Management System Adopted: The president and the
board of trustees of the village hereby adopt the national incident management
system (NIMS) as its system of preparing for and responding to disaster
incidents. (Ord. NI-1-06, 4-12-2006)
2-1-7: PURCHASING AND EXPENDITURES:
The board of trustees, on the recommendations of the coordinator, shall
authorize any purchases or contracts necessary to place the village in a
position to effectively combat any disaster resulting from the explosion of any
nuclear or other bomb or missile, and to protect the public health and safety,
protect property, and provide emergency assistance to victims in the case of
such disaster, or from manmade or natural disaster. (Ord. ESDA-0401, 4-27-2004)
2-1-8: OATH:
Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the village ESDA shall,
before entering upon his duties, subscribe to the oath as set forth in the
"Illinois emergency management act of 1992", which oath shall be filed with the
ESDA coordinator of the county. (Ord. ESDA-0401, 4-27-2004)
2-1-9: TESTING OF DISASTER WARNING DEVICES:
The testing of the disaster warning devices including outdoor warning sirens
shall be held only on the first Tuesday of each month at ten o'clock (10:00)
A.M. (Ord. ESDA-0401, 4-27-2004)
2-1-10: AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT SERVICES, GIFTS, GRANTS OR LOANS:
Whenever the federal, state or county government or any agency or officer
thereof or whenever any person, firm or corporation shall offer to the village
services, equipment, supplies, material or funds by way of gift or grant for
purpose of emergency services and disaster operations, the village, acting
through the board of trustees, may authorize any officer of the village to
receive such services, equipment, supplies, materials, or funds on behalf of
the village. (Ord. ESDA-0401, 4-27-2004)
2-1-11: NONLIABILITY OF VILLAGE:
Neither the village, the agency or any member thereof, or any person acting at
their direction, engaged in any emergency services and disaster operation or
disaster activities, while complying with or attempting to comply with this
chapter or any rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to this chapter is
liable for the death of or any injury to persons, or damage to property, as a
result of such activity. This section does not, however, affect the right of
any person to receive benefits to which he would otherwise be entitled under
this chapter, under the workers' compensation act or the workers' occupational
diseases act, or under any pension law, and this section does not affect the
right of any such person to receive any benefits or compensation under any act
of congress. (Ord. ESDA-0401, 4-27-2004)
2-1-12: APPROPRIATION AND TAX LEVY:
The village board may make appropriations for emergency services and disaster
operations in the manner provided by law for making appropriations for the
ordinary expenses of such political subdivision. The village board may also
levy for emergency services and disaster operations a tax not to exceed 0.05
percent of the full, fair cash value as equalized or assessed by the department
of revenue on all taxable property in the village for the current year.
However, the amount collectible under such a levy shall in no event exceed
twenty five cents ($0.25) per capita. The annual tax shall be in addition to
and in excess of the amount authorized to be levied for general corporate
purposes. (Ord. ESDA-0401, 4-27-2004)
2-1-13: COMPENSATION:
The village board, by its annual appropriation ordinance, may provide for the
payment of the salary of the coordinator and such other office staff and
personnel as may be expressly provided for in this chapter. Nothing herein
contained shall prohibit any member of the agency from receiving compensation
from the state of Illinois emergency management agency under any provision of
the state act. (Ord. ESDA-0401, 4-27-2004)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSE AND PERMIT PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Purpose And Jurisdiction
3-1-2: Definitions
3-1-3: License Required; Exceptions
3-1-4: Application For License Or Permit
3-1-5: Investigations And Inspections
3-1-6: Issuance Or Denial Of License Or Permit
3-1-7: Term Of License
3-1-8: License To Be Posted
3-1-9: Building And Premises
3-1-10: Location
3-1-11: Health And Safety Requirements
3-1-11-1: Nuisances Prohibited
3-1-11-2: Unsafe Or Unhealthy Business
3-1-11-3: Refuse Removal
3-1-12: Business Vehicles
3-1-13: Suspension Or Revocation Of License Or Permit
3-1-14: Appeals
3-1-1: PURPOSE AND JURISDICTION:
Because each business located in the village is a basic part of and affects the
physical and economic well being of the village, necessitating special services
from the village in the form of health and police inspections and utility
services, such businesses shall in all respects be in full compliance with the
provisions hereinafter contained in this chapter. This chapter is designed to
provide for the means whereby the village may render the necessary inspections
and services to businesses in order to promote, protect and safeguard the
public safety, health and welfare of the citizens of Divernon and to enable the
maintenance of an accurate record of businesses located and carrying on
commercial activities or commerce within the village. (1997 Code)
3-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases as used in this chapter shall have the
following meanings, unless a different meaning is required by the context:
BUSINESS: Any vocation, occupation, profession, enterprise, establishment,
concern or any other type of activity, together with all devices, machines,
equipment, vehicles and appurtenances used therein, any of which are conducted
for profit; provided, however, that the term "business" shall not include those
vocations, occupations, professions, enterprises, establishments or concerns
licensed exclusively by the state of Illinois or department thereof or
permitted home occupations.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, trust or
any other legal entity, except for such person or persons as may be organized
as an Illinois not for profit corporation or governmental bodies properly
organized under the laws of the state of Illinois.
TOTAL FLOOR AREA: The sum total of the horizontal areas of any and all floors,
or portions thereof, of any building, including any and all accessory
buildings, basements, attics and/or cellars, devoted to, reserved for or
retained for the use of any business, regardless of whether or not any such
area(s) is vacant or not in use. (1997 Code)
3-1-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   License Required: No person shall conduct, engage in, maintain,
operate, carry on or manage any business, either by himself, or through any
agent, employee or partner without first having obtained a license therefor
from the village.
   B.   Conducting Additional Businesses: A license shall be required if any
person, by himself or through an agent, employee or partner, is held forth as
being engaged in any business, or if he solicits patronage therefor, actively
or passively, or if he performs or attempts to perform any part of such
business within the village. Where two (2) or more separate businesses,
separately owned and/or operated, share floor space in the same building or on
the same parcel of property, and any floor space is subdivided between the
separate businesses, then each such business shall obtain a license pursuant to
the provisions contained in this chapter.
   C.   Exception: Notwithstanding any provision in this section to the
contrary, no license shall be required of any person for the mere delivery
within the village of any property purchased or acquired in good faith from
such person at his regular place of business outside the corporate limits of
the village. (1997 Code)
3-1-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE OR PERMIT:
Applications for all licenses or permits required by this code shall be made in
writing to the village clerk, except as may otherwise be provided by this code.
   A.   Contents Of Application: Each application shall contain such
information as may be prescribed by the village clerk, including but not
limited to:
      1.   The name of the applicant.
      2.   The permit or license desired.
      3.   The location to be used, if any.
      4.   The license period.
      5.   The fee to be paid.
      6.   The total floor area of the business, if any. (Proof acceptable to
the village clerk is required.)
   B.   Forms: Forms for all licenses and permits, and applications therefor,
shall be prepared and kept on file by the village clerk.
   C.   Signatures: Each license or permit issued shall bear the signature of
the village president and the village clerk, except as may otherwise be
provided by this code. (1997 Code)
3-1-5: INVESTIGATIONS AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Investigation Of Applicant:
      1.   Referral To Appropriate Official: Upon the receipt of an application
for a license or permit, where an investigation or inspection is required by
ordinance before the issuance of such permit or license, or where an inspection
or investigation shall be deemed reasonably necessary or appropriate, the
village clerk, within forty eight (48) hours of such receipt, shall refer the
application to the appropriate official(s) for the making of such investigation
or inspection.
      2.   Investigation Report: The official(s) to whom the application has
been referred shall make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten
(10) days after receiving such application or a copy thereof.
      3.   Additional Information: If it shall appear to the village clerk that
the matters and circumstances relating to an application require further
information before a proper determination can be made, such application shall
be returned to the applicant for the inclusion of such additional information
as may be specified by the village clerk.
   B.   Inspection Officials: The village clerk, in consultation with the
county health department, shall make or cause to be made inspections regarding
such permits and licenses as related to the care and handling of food, the
prevention of nuisances and the spread of disease, and the protection of the
health of the public. The zoning administrator shall make or cause to be made
any inspections which relate to compliance with the building codes, zoning
ordinances and other related regulations. All other investigations, except
where otherwise provided, shall be made by the chief of police or by some other
officer designated by the village clerk.
   C.   Inspections; Analyses:
      1.   Admission To Premises: Whenever inspections of the premises used for
or in connection with the operation of a licensed business or occupation are
provided for or required by ordinance or are reasonably necessary to assure
compliance with the provisions of any ordinance or regulation of the village or
to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee or the
person in charge of the premises to admit thereto, for the purpose of making
the inspection, any officer or employee of the village who is duly authorized
to make such inspection at any reasonable time that such admission or entry is
requested.
      2.   Samples: Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is
reasonably necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of any ordinance
or regulation, or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the
licensee or the person in charge of the premises to give to any duly authorized
officer or employee of the village requesting the same sufficient samples of
such material or commodity.
      3.   Refusal To Comply: In addition to any other penalty which may be
provided, the village president may revoke the license of any owner or operator
of a licensed business in the village who refuses to permit any duly authorized
officer or employee to make such inspection or to take an adequate sample of
said commodity, or who interferes with such officer or employee while in the
performance of his duties; provided, however, that no license shall be subject
to revocation for such cause unless such officer or employee has been refused
permission to enter upon the premises in the name of the village after first
having presented a warrant authorizing such entry.
      4.   Supervision Of County Board Of Health: In order to facilitate proper
inspection in keeping with the provisions of this subsection, any official,
sanitarian, inspector or other employee or person designated to make such
inspections under the supervision of the county board of health shall be
considered to be an officer or official of the village for such purpose and for
any purpose relative to the provisions of this chapter but for no other purpose
unless so designated by ordinances of the village. (1997 Code)
3-1-6: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSE OR PERMIT:
   A.   Denial: If, after due consideration of the information contained within
the application and the related investigative report, the village clerk
determines that the applicant does not meet the standards set forth in this
chapter, he shall deny such permit or license. Thereupon, the village clerk
shall promptly notify the applicant that no license or permit will be issued,
indicating the reasons therefor.
   B.   Issuance: If, after due consideration of the information contained
within the application and the related investigative report, the village clerk
determines that the applicant meets the standards set forth in this chapter, he
shall grant such permit or license and notify the applicant thereof. (1997
Code)
3-1-7: TERM OF LICENSE:
All annual licenses shall be operative and the license year for the village
shall commence on January 1 of each year and shall terminate on December 31,
unless specifically provided otherwise. (1997 Code)
3-1-8: LICENSE TO BE POSTED:
It shall be the duty of every person conducting a licensed business in the
village to keep his license posted in a prominent place on the premises used
for such business at all times so that it is plainly visible to someone
standing outside the main entrance to such business. (1997 Code)
3-1-9: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no permit shall
be issued for any purpose or activity, if the premises and building to be used
for the purpose do not fully comply with all applicable ordinances and
regulations of the village and state of Illinois. (1997 Code)
3-1-10: LOCATION:
   A.   License Restricted To One Location: No license for the operation of a
business or establishment in the village shall be construed to permit the
operation of a licensed business or establishment in more than one location in
the village; a separate license shall be required for each location of a
licensed establishment. For the purposes of this chapter, the existence of a
single location shall be evidenced by the fact that all buildings containing
the principal or accessory uses shall be connected or shall be located on the
same lot or parcel, shall be operated and managed by the same person or owner
and shall be an establishment with the same classification.
   B.   Change Of Location: The location of any licensed business or occupation
or the location of any permitted act may be changed; provided, that ten (10)
days' notice thereof is given to the village clerk in the absence of any
provision to the contrary; provided, however, that there shall be compliance
with all applicable ordinances and regulations of the village. (1997 Code)
3-1-11: HEALTH AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
3-1-11-1: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
No business or establishment, whether or not licensed, shall be so conducted or
operated as to constitute a nuisance in fact; and no building, vehicle,
structure, yard, lot, premises or part thereof, shall be used, kept, maintained
or operated in connection with any business or establishment so as to occasion
any nuisance, or so as to be dangerous to life or detrimental to health. (1997
Code)
3-1-11-2: UNSAFE OR UNHEALTHY BUSINESS:
   A.   Building Or Structure: No building or structure, utilized, constructed
or maintained in connection with any business or occupation shall evidence an
unsanitary, unsafe or dangerous condition 1 .
   B.   Dangerous Substances: No substance, matter or thing of any kind
whatever which shall be dangerous or detrimental to health shall be allowed to
exist in connection with any business or occupation or be used in any work or
labor performed in the village. (1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 8, chapter 2 of this code.
3-1-11-3: REFUSE REMOVAL:
It shall be the duty of the occupant of every building, structure or premises
used or maintained in connection with any business or occupation to cause to be
removed at his own cost and expense at least once each week all refuse produced
therein. (1997 Code)
3-1-12: BUSINESS VEHICLES:
Whenever the number of vehicles used is the basis, in whole or in part, for a
license fee, the village clerk shall furnish the licensee with a tag or sticker
for each vehicle covered by the license, and such tag or sticker shall be
posted or affixed in a conspicuous place on each such vehicle. (1997 Code)
3-1-13: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT:
   A.   Suspension Of Business Operation:
      1.   Authority Of Village Clerk: When the conduct or operation of any
business or establishment, whether or not licensed, shall constitute a nuisance
in fact and a clear and present danger to the public health, safety or general
welfare, the village clerk shall be authorized to summarily order the cessation
of business, the closing of the premises and the suspension of any license or
permit for a period not to exceed ten (10) days.
      2.   Hearing: Within eight (8) days after he/she has so acted, the
village clerk shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether or
not the license or permit should be revoked.
   B.   Revocation Of License Or Permit: Licenses and permits issued under the
ordinances of the village, unless otherwise provided, may be revoked by the
village clerk after notice and hearing as provided in subsection C of this
section for any of the following causes:
      1.   Fraud: Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in
the application for the license or permit;
      2.   Ordinance Violation: Any violation by the licensee or permittee of
ordinance provisions relating to the license or permit, the subject matter of
the license or permit, or the premises occupied;
      3.   Moral Turpitude: Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any
felony or of a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
      4.   Failure To Pay Fine Or Penalty: Failure of the licensee or permittee
to pay any fine or penalty owing to the village;
      5.   Refusal To Permit Inspection: Refusal to permit an inspection or
sampling, or any interference with a duly authorized village officer or
employee while in the performance of his duties in making such inspections, as
provided in subsection 3-1-5C of this chapter.
Such revocation, if ordered, shall not preclude prosecution and imposition of
any other penalties provided for the violation of other applicable ordinances
of the village.
   C.   Hearing:
      1.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license
or permit shall be given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of
the complaint and the time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be sent
by certified mail (return receipt requested) to the licensee or permittee at
his last known address at least five (5) days prior to the date set for the
hearing.
      2.   Hearing: At the hearing, the village attorney shall present the
complaint and shall represent the village. The licensee or permittee shall be
permitted counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross examine
witnesses. The village clerk shall preside and shall render the decision. (1997
Code)
3-1-14: APPEALS:
   A.   Right To Appeal: Any person aggrieved by the decision of the village
clerk in regard to the denial of an application for a business license, as
provided in section
3-1-6 of this chapter, or in connection with the revocation of a license or
permit, as provided in section
3-1-13 of this chapter, shall have the right to appeal to the board of
trustees.
   B.   Notice Of Appeal: Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the village
clerk, within ten (10) days after notice of a denial of an application or a
revocation of a license or permit, a written statement under oath setting forth
specifically the grounds for appeal.
   C.   Hearing: The board of trustees shall thereupon set the time and place
for a hearing on such appeal, and notice of such hearing shall be given to the
applicant or licensee or permittee in the same manner as provided in section
3-1-13 of this chapter.
   D.   Decision: The decision of the board of trustees on such appeal shall be
by vote of a majority of all the members then holding office and shall be
final. (1997 Code)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL 1
SECTION:
3-2-1: Title
3-2-2: Definitions
3-2-3: Types Of Licenses Required; Fees
3-2-4: Application For License
3-2-5: License Applications And Renewals Considered By Board
3-2-6: Displaying License
3-2-7: Hours For Opening And Closing
3-2-8: Compliance Required; License Nontransferable
3-2-9: View Into Premises
3-2-10: No Loitering By Minors Or Certain Other People
3-2-11: Gambling Devices
3-2-12: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-2-13: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
3-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as "An ordinance for obtaining liquor license and
for regulating the sale of alcoholic beverages in the Village of Divernon,
Illinois". (Ord., 5-10-1983)
3-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions are stated:
LICENSEE: Any "person" as defined in this section receiving a license under
this chapter.
LIQUOR: Whiskeys, gin, rum, vodka, etc., as well as wines, brandies and beer.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, club, lounge, association or
corporation. (Ord., 5-10-1983)
3-2-3: TYPES OF LICENSES REQUIRED; FEES:
   A.   Types Of Licenses: Following are the types of licenses available under
the provisions of this chapter:
      1.   Class I tavern: Allowed to sell liquor, wine and beer by draft,
individual drink or by package (package liquor to be consumed off the
premises).
      2.   Class II: To sell liquor and/or wine and/or beer wholesale.
      3.   Class III: To sell liquor, wine and beer by package only; all beer
is to be sold by case only (6-pack, etc.), no sale is to be made for
consumption on the premises.
      4.   Private club: To sell beer only (none in package) and the license to
be issued by the Board of Trustees for "one day", "one week", "one month" or
"one year".
      5.   Lounge or club: To sell liquor and wine by the individual drink
only, beer by draft, bottle or can (no package sales).
      6.   Beer garden: Allowed to sell liquor, wine and/or beer by draft or
individual drink (no package sales), or in accordance with the license of the
drinking establishment in which it is attached, whichever is more strict.
      7.   Temporary beer garden: Allowed to sell liquor, wine and/or beer by
draft or individual drink (no package sales).
      8.   Sidewalk cafe: Allowed to sell food in accordance with chapter 8 of
this title. Allowed to sell liquor, wine and/or beer by draft (no package
sales) or individual drink in accordance with the license of the establishment
in which it is attached.
   B.   License Fees:
      1.   License fees for each type of business are as follows:
Class I tavern                              $400.00 per year
Class II                                    500.00  per year
Class III                                   400.00  per year
Private club:                                       
1 day                                       10.00    
1 week                                      15.00    
1 month                                     50.00    
All others prorated on $300.00 per year fee         
Lounge                                      250.00  per year
Beer garden                                 100.00  per year
Temporary beer garden                       20.00   per special event
Sidewalk cafe                               100.00  per year
 
      2.   All licenses are to be paid annually (except private club), and
shall be paid on or before July 1 of each year. There shall be no refund for
the unused portion of the license fee. (Ord. 2016-003, 5-25-2016)
3-2-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person desiring a license under this chapter shall make application to the
village clerk upon blanks prepared and furnished by the village, and such
application shall be sworn and notarized. (Ord., 5-10-1983)
3-2-5: LICENSE APPLICATIONS AND RENEWALS CONSIDERED BY BOARD:
   A.   New Applications:
      1.   Action By Board Of Trustees: The village clerk shall present a
report on all applications for liquor licenses at the next regular or adjourned
regular meeting of the village board of trustees, or any special meeting of the
village board of trustees, and the village board of trustees shall direct the
president to grant or refuse such license.
      2.   Payment Of Fee; Issuance: In the event the village board of trustees
directs the granting of a license applied for, the village president shall
forthwith, upon payment in advance of the license fee as required by this
chapter, direct the village clerk to issue a license to such applicant.
   B.   Applications For Renewal:
      1.   Date Of Filing: Application for renewals of licenses shall be filed
with the village clerk on or before June 10 and December 10, preceding the
second board of trustees meeting in the months of June and December, for
approval of the renewal licenses that are to be issued on January 1 and July 1
of each year.
      2.   Action By Board Of Trustees: The village clerk shall report the
names of all applicants for the renewal of licenses to the village board of
trustees. The village board of trustees shall refer all applications for
renewal, against which no complaints are pending, to the village president to
take such action as he may deem advisable. (Ord., 5-10-1983)
3-2-6: DISPLAYING LICENSE:
Every person licensed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall
immediately display and keep displayed, while in force, in a conspicuous place
on the premises, the license so issued. Whenever such license shall be lost or
destroyed, a duplicate in lieu thereof shall be issued by the village clerk.
(Ord., 5-10-1983)
3-2-7: HOURS FOR OPENING AND CLOSING:
   A.   Opening Of Business: No business licensed under the provisions of this
chapter except class III shall open said business to offer the sale of liquor,
beer or wine, before the hour of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. from Monday through
Saturday, and shall not open said business to offer the sale of liquor, beer or
wine, before the hour of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on Sunday. Class III
licensed business shall open said business to offer the sale of liquor, wine or
beer by package, Monday through Sunday when said business is open for normal
hours of operation. (Ord. 2014-005, 5-14-2014, eff. 6-1-2014)
   B.   Closing Hours: The closing hours are as follows:
      1.   Sunday through Thursday, close at one o'clock (1:00) A.M.; Friday
and Saturday, close at two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
      2.   On New Year's Eve only, for an additional fee of fifty dollars
($50.00), class I tavern, lounge or club will be allowed to remain open until
the hour of four o'clock (4:00) A.M.
   C.   Admittance After Closing Prohibited: Pertaining to the closing hours
stated in subsection B of this section, all businesses that are allowed to sell
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises shall refuse admittance
after closing, and will be allowed thirty (30) minutes for customers to consume
drinks and dispatch all customers from said premises. (Ord., 5-10-1983)
3-2-8: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE:
No license shall be issued unless the applicant has conformed to all the laws,
rules and regulations of the United States Code and the state of Illinois with
reference to the sale of liquor, wine and beer. Licenses are issued to the
"person" and are not transferable. (Ord., 5-10-1983)
3-2-9: VIEW INTO PREMISES:
No colored glass, curtain, drape, screen or partition shall be hung or used
behind or in connection with the windows or doors or any other place in the
building that will constrict viewing the complete interior of any class I
tavern that is licensed under this chapter. In the event any of the foregoing
provisions of this chapter are violated, the person in whose name the license
has been issued shall be subject to the penalties provided in this chapter and
the license issued to the person thereof shall be subject to suspension or
revocation. (Ord., 5-10-1983)
3-2-10: NO LOITERING BY MINORS OR CERTAIN OTHER PEOPLE:
People who are under the influence of alcohol, anyone under the age of twenty
one (21) years and incompetent people for whom a guardian or conservator has
been appointed shall not be permitted to loiter or remain in or about any class
I tavern, lounge or club where liquors, as defined by this chapter, are either
sold or given away. Any person selling, exchanging or giving liquor, wine or
beer to such people who are under the influence of alcohol, or anyone under the
age of twenty one (21) or to any incompetent person shall be subject to the
penalties hereinafter provided, and the person in whose name the license is
issued shall be considered to have violated the provisions of this chapter and
his license shall be subject to suspension or revocation as is hereinafter
provided. (Ord., 5-10-1983)
3-2-11: GAMBLING DEVICES:
No gambling device, other than video gaming terminals licensed under the
Illinois video gaming act (public acts 096-0034, 096-0037, and 096-0038) (the
"act") shall be kept or used for the purpose of gambling in any establishment
licensed under the provisions of this chapter. The person to whom the license
is issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be subjected, in the event
of a violation of this section, to the penalties hereinafter provided, and the
license issued to any person shall also be subject to suspension or revocation
as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 2012-003, 7-25-2012)
3-2-12: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Reasons For Suspension Or Revocation: The village president may suspend
or revoke any license issued under the provisions of this chapter for any one
or more of the following reasons:
      1.   Violation of the laws of the United States, or the state of Illinois
or of any of the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   The wilful making of any false statement as to the material facts in
the application for a license.
      3.   Permitting any disorderly or immoral practices upon the premises
where the licensee is licensed to sell liquor under the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord., 5-10-1983)
   B.   Right Of Licensee To Appeal: See sections
3-1-13 and
3-1-14 of this title for appeal and hearing procedure. (1997 Code)
3-2-13: PENALTY:
Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction,
be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 5-10-1983; amd. 1997 Code)
CHAPTER 3
COIN OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: License Required
3-3-3: Application For License
3-3-4: License Fees, Renewals
3-3-5: Term Of License, License Nontransferable
3-3-6: Investigations
3-3-7: License To Be Posted
3-3-8: Conditions Of License
3-3-9: Revocation Of License
3-3-10: Penalty
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
COIN OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE: Any mechanical or electronic amusement machine
or device, the operation of which is governed or controlled by the deposit of a
coin or token, including, without being limited thereto, any such coin
controlled machine or device capable of producing or reproducing any vocal or
instrumental sounds, for the purpose of amusement or skill and for the playing
of which a fee is charged. The term does not include vending machines in which
are not incorporated gambling or amusement features, nor does the term include
any coin operated mechanical musical devices or billiard or pool tables.
LICENSED VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL: An electronic video gaming machine that plays
or simulates the play of a video game authorized by the Illinois gaming board
upon the insertion of cash.
MULTIPLE PLAY MACHINES OR DEVICES: Any machine or device in which more than one
coin, token or similar object can be inserted so as to affect the results of
the person playing such machine or device.
OPERATOR: Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or association or an
authorized terminal operator as defined in the Illinois video gaming act who
sets up for operation by another or leases or distributes for the purpose of
operation by another, any machine or device as herein described, whether such
setting up for operation, leasing or distributing be for a fixed charge or
rental, or on a basis of a division of the income derived from such device or
otherwise.
PROPRIETOR: Any person, firm, partnership, corporation, association or club or
an authorized licensed video gaming location who, as the owner, lessee or
proprietor, has under his or its control, any establishment, place or premises
in or at which such machine or device is placed or kept for use or play or on
exhibition for the purpose of use or play.
SINGLE PLAY MACHINES OR DEVICES: Any machine or device in which not more than
one coin, token or similar object can be inserted for the playing of said
machine or device. (1997 Code; amd. Ord. 2012-003, 7-25-2012)
3-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business of an "operator" or "proprietor" of coin
operated amusement devices, as the terms are herein defined, without first
having obtained the proper license therefor. (1997 Code)
3-3-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
An application for said license shall be made to the village clerk in
conformity with chapter 1 of this title, except as otherwise provided herein.
In addition, the application shall set forth the following:
   A.   Location And Character Of Premises: The location and character of the
building or place where such amusement device is to be located, maintained or
operated;
   B.   Charge For Operation: The charge to be made to the player for operating
each such device; and
   C.   Principal Occupation Or Business: The main or principal occupation or
business being conducted or to be conducted by the applicant upon the same
premises wherein such device or devices are to be located, maintained or
operated. The proper license fee shall accompany such application. (1997 Code)
3-3-4: LICENSE FEES, RENEWALS:
   A.   Operator: The license fee for an operator shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00) per year for each coin operated amusement device placed or kept by
the operator for public use within the village. This fee shall be payable upon
application for the license and said license shall be renewable annually.
   B.   Proprietor: The license fee for a proprietor shall be fifty dollars
($50.00) per year for each coin operated amusement device placed or kept by the
proprietor for public use within the village. This fee shall be payable upon
application for the license and said license shall be renewable annually. (1997
Code; amd. Ord. 2022-003, 9-14-2022)
3-3-5: TERM OF LICENSE, LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE:
All licenses under this chapter shall expire on June 30 following their
issuance, and no license issued to any person under this chapter shall be
transferable. (1997 Code)
3-3-6: INVESTIGATIONS:
   A.   Applicant: Applications for license hereunder shall first be referred
by the village clerk to the president and board of trustees who shall make or
cause to be made such investigation as they deem necessary. If the application
is approved by the president and board of trustees, the license shall be issued
by the village clerk. If the license is denied, the fee shall be returned to
the applicant.
   B.   Premises, Machines: No such license shall be issued until the office of
the village clerk shall have investigated the location wherein the machine or
device is proposed to be operated and has determined that the proposed
operation of the machine or device complies with all the terms of this chapter
and other applicable ordinances of the village. (1997 Code)
3-3-7: LICENSE TO BE POSTED:
The license or licenses herein provided for shall be posted permanently or
conspicuously at the location in the premises wherein the machine or device is
to be operated or maintained. (1997 Code)
3-3-8: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Disturbing The Peace, Nuisances: No license issued hereunder shall
permit the operation of a coin operated amusement device at any place or in any
manner which will disturb the peace of persons otherwise properly within or
without the licensed premises, or shall permit the operation thereof to amount
to a nuisance in fact.
   B.   Gambling: No coin operated amusement device shall be operated or
permitted to be used in such a manner as to violate the gambling laws of the
village or of the state of Illinois 1 .
   C.   No Free Replays: No proprietor, operator or person in charge of a coin
operated amusement device shall permit free replays to players on the basis of
the player's skill, accumulated score or any other means, and no machine shall
record or indicate free replays. (1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/28-1 et seq.
3-3-9: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Authority: The president and board of trustees shall have the right to
revoke any license issued hereunder for the violation of any of the provisions
of this chapter.
   B.   Right Of Licensee To Appeal: See sections
3-1-13 and
3-1-14 of this title for appeal and hearing procedure. (1997 Code)
3-3-10: PENALTY:
Any person violating or refusing to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1997
Code)
CHAPTER 4
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: License Required; Food And Health Regulations
3-4-3: Application Of Provisions
3-4-4: Application For License, Contents, Fee
3-4-5: Investigation Of Applicant
3-4-6: License Fee
3-4-7: Applicant To File Sales Tax Returns
3-4-8: License Expiration
3-4-9: Solicitation; Approval By Village Office Manager
3-4-10: Obstruction Of Traffic Prohibited
3-4-11: Exhibiting License
3-4-12: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
3-4-13: Appeals
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
PEDDLER: Any person who travels within the Village or has a temporary location
in the Village for the conduct of business and who has no permanent place of
business in the Village, but offers or exposes for sale goods, wares or
merchandise, or who makes sales and delivers articles to purchasers.
SOLICITOR: Any person who travels within the Village, or has a temporary
location for the conduct of business, who solicits or takes or attempts to take
orders for sale or purchase of goods, wares or merchandise, including
magazines, books, periodicals, real or personal property of any nature
whatsoever for future delivery or for services to be performed or for the
donation of money or financial assistance, whether or not such individual has,
carries or exposes for sale a sample of the subject of such order or whether or
not he is collecting advance payment on such orders. Such definition includes,
but is not limited to, any person who, for himself or for another person, firm
or corporation, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, motor vehicle,
trailer, structure, tent, hotel room, lodging house, apartment, shop or other
place within the Village for the primary purpose of exhibiting samples and
taking orders for future delivery.
TRANSIENT MERCHANT: Any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner, agent or
consignee, who engages in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods,
wares, property, services and merchandise within the Village, and who, in
furtherance of said purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building,
structure, motor vehicle, trailer, tent, hotel, motel or lodging house room,
apartment, shop, street, alley or other place within the Village, for the
exhibition or sale of such goods, wares, services and merchandise, either
privately or at public auction. The person, firm or corporation so engaged is
not relieved from complying with the provisions of this chapter by reason of
associating temporarily with any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer;
provided, however, that if all sales made by such person, firm or corporation
of goods, wares, merchandise or services shall be reported for Sales Tax
collection purposes as made by such local dealer, trader, merchant or
auctioneer, and all monies derived from such sales shall be collected by such
local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer, then such transient merchant
shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter. Only one such transient
business shall be allowed to associate temporarily with any local dealer,
trader, merchant or auctioneer as a part of or in the name of any local dealer,
trader, merchant or auctioneer at any one time. A resident of the Village
conducting a yard sale shall not be considered to be a transient merchant until
he has conducted such sale for a total of four (4) days within one calendar
year. After conduct of such sale for four (4) days in any one calendar year,
the person conducting said sale shall be considered to be a transient merchant.
(Ord. 2017-007, 7-26-2017)
3-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FOOD AND HEALTH REGULATIONS:
   A.   License Required; Exceptions: It is unlawful for any peddler, solicitor
or transient merchant to engage in any such businesses within the Village
without first obtaining a license therefor in compliance with the provisions of
this chapter; provided, however, the Village Board of Trustees, by resolution,
may exempt from licensing peddlers, solicitors or transient merchants selling
at locations approved in said resolution during an event declared to be of
Village-wide interest; but, provided further, that the sponsor of such exempted
event shall file with the Village Clerk prior to such event a list of the
names, social security numbers and addresses of any participating peddler,
solicitor or transient merchant, along with a copy of a current Sales Tax
license.
   B.   Compliance Required: All peddlers, solicitors or transient merchants
shall comply with all applicable State food and health rules and regulations.
(Ord. 2017-007, 7-26-2017)
3-4-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The terms of this chapter do not apply to persons engaged wholly in selling
personal property at wholesale to dealers in such articles, nor to the acts of
merchants having a permanent place of business in the Village or their
employees in delivering goods in the regular course of business, nor shall it
include the following professions or businesses: newspersons, any public
utility and its employees franchised to do business within the Village, auto
salespersons, and any dissemination of information without solicitation of
money or other consideration. Nothing contained in this chapter prohibits any
sales required by statute or by order of any court, or to prevent any person
conducting a bona fide auction sale pursuant to law. (Ord. 2017-007, 7-26-2017)
3-4-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE, CONTENTS, FEE:
Applicants for a license under this chapter shall file with the Police
Department a sworn application in writing on a form to be furnished by the
Police Department which shall give the following information:
   A.   Required Information:
      1.   Name, proof of identity, photograph and social security number of
applicant.
      2.   Complete permanent business, home and local address of the
applicant, and in the case of the transient merchants, the local address from
which proposed sales will be made.
      3.   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to
be sold by such applicant.
      4.   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials therefrom establishing the exact relationship.
      5.   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired.
      6.   The source of supply of the goods or property proposed to be sold,
or orders taken for the sale thereof, where such goods or products are located
at the time said application is filed, and the proposed method of delivery.
   B.   Application Fee: At the time of filing the application, a nonrefundable
fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) shall be paid to the Village Clerk to cover
the cost of investigation of the facts stated therein. There shall be no
application fee for renewals in the immediately succeeding licensing period.
(Ord. 2017-007, 7-26-2017)
3-4-5: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
   A.   Referral To Chief Of Police: Upon receipt of such application, it shall
be referred to the Chief of Police, who shall immediately institute such
investigation of the applicant's business as he deems necessary for the
protection of the public good and shall endorse the application in the manner
prescribed in this section within seventy two (72) hours, excluding weekends
and holidays, after it has been filed.
   B.   Denial Of Application: If, as a result of such investigation, the
applicant's business responsibility is found to be unsatisfactory, the Chief of
Police shall endorse on such application his disapproval and his reasons for
the same, and shall notify the applicant that his application is disapproved
and that no license shall be issued.
   C.   Payment Of Fee; Issuance Of License: If, as a result of such
investigation, the character and business responsibility of the applicant are
found to be satisfactory, the Chief of Police shall endorse on the application
his approval, and shall upon payment of the prescribed license fees, deliver to
the applicant his license. Such license shall contain the signature of the
issuing officer and shall show the name and address of said licensee, the kinds
of goods to be sold thereunder, and contain the following wording: "The Village
of Divernon, Illinois, does not endorse the products of licensee", the amount
of fee paid, the date of issuance and the length of time the same shall be
valid, as well as the license number and identifying description of any vehicle
used in such licensed business. Each peddler, solicitor or transient merchant
shall secure a personal license. The Village Clerk shall keep a permanent
record of all licenses issued hereunder. (Ord. 2017-007, 7-26-2017)
3-4-6: LICENSE FEE:
Every applicant for a license under the provisions of this chapter shall pay
the following fee upon the issuance of the license:
 
1 day license $100.00
 
(Ord. 2017-007, 7-26-2017)
3-4-7: APPLICANT TO FILE SALES TAX RETURNS:
Every applicant for a license hereunder shall file all required Sales Tax
returns. (Ord. 2017-007, 7-26-2017)
3-4-8: LICENSE EXPIRATION:
All licenses issued hereunder shall expire at six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of the
day for which the license is issued. (Ord. 2017-007, 7-26-2017)
3-4-9: SOLICITATION; APPROVAL BY VILLAGE OFFICE MANAGER:
   A.   Referral To Village Office Manager (OM): Any person or organization
desiring to solicit donations of money or property, including solicitation by
selling literature or merchandise from door to door or in any public place
within the Village, for charitable purposes, shall apply for approval to the
Village OM who shall within seventy two (72) hours after being contacted by the
said person or organization, either approve or disapprove of the solicitation.
If the Village OM disapproves of the solicitation, he shall state in writing
the reason for his disapproval and he shall notify the person or organization
of his disapproval and no solicitation shall be allowed.
   B.   Approval: If the Village OM approves of the solicitation, he shall,
within seventy two (72) hours after being contacted by said person or
organization, state in writing his approval and shall so notify the said person
or organization that they may so solicit.
   C.   Definition: The term "charitable purposes" shall mean any organization,
campaign or project which:
      1.   Has as its primary purpose the furtherance of science, education,
philanthropy, religion, the arts or any political campaign; and
      2.   Which is not conducted for personal gain; and
      3.   No portion of the net proceeds of solicitation will inure to the
benefit of any individual or shareholder.
Any organization to which contributions are deductible for Federal Income Tax
purposes shall conclusively be deemed to be within this definition. (Ord. 2017-
007, 7-26-2017)
3-4-10: OBSTRUCTION OF TRAFFIC PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee to conduct his business at any location,
private or public, in such a manner as to hinder or obstruct the free passage
of pedestrian or vehicular traffic. (Ord. 2017-007, 7-26-2017)
3-4-11: EXHIBITING LICENSE:
All licensees shall be required to exhibit their license at the time of initial
introduction to any person in the Village for the purpose of negotiating any
transaction covered by this chapter. Further, it shall be the duty of the
police of the Village to require any person peddling, soliciting or canvassing,
and who is not known by such officer to be duly licensed, and the person of
whom the request is made, to produce his license and to enforce the provisions
of this chapter against any person found to be violating the same. (Ord. 2017-
007, 7-26-2017)
3-4-12: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Causes For Revocation Or Suspension: Licenses issued under the
provisions of this chapter may be revoked or suspended by the Police Chief or
Village OM, after notice and hearing, and for any of the following causes:
      1.   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statement contained in the
application for license, or made in the course of carrying on any business as
solicitor, canvasser, peddler, transient merchant, itinerant merchant or
itinerant vendor.
      2.   Any violation of this chapter.
      3.   Conducting the business of peddler, canvasser, solicitor, transient
merchant, itinerant merchant or itinerant vendor, as the case may be, in an
unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or
to constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license
shall be given by the Village OM in writing, setting forth specifically the
grounds of complaint and the time and place of hearing. Such notice shall be
mailed, postage prepaid, to the licensee at his last known address at least
five (5) days prior to the date set for hearing, or shall be delivered by a
police officer in the same manner as a summons at least three (3) days prior to
the date set for hearing. (Ord. 2017-007, 7-26-2017)
3-4-13: APPEALS:
   A.   Right To Appeal: Any person aggrieved by the action of the Village OM
or the Village OM in the denial of a license, may appeal to the Village Board
of Trustees.
   B.   Notice Of Appeal: Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the Village
OM, within fourteen (14) days after the notice of the action complained of, a
written statement setting forth fully the grounds for such appeal.
   C.   Notice Of Hearing: The Village OM shall forthwith transmit such notice
of appeal to the Village Board of Trustees, which Board shall set a time and
place for hearing on such appeal and notice of such hearing shall be given to
the appellant in the same manner as provided hereinabove for notice of hearing
on revocation. (Ord. 2017-007, 7-26-2017)
CHAPTER 5
ADULT USES
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: Liquor Sale And Consumption Prohibited
3-5-3: Location
3-5-4: Criminal Background Requirement
3-5-5: Permit Review
3-5-6: Action By Chief Of Police
3-5-7: Action By Corporate Authorities
3-5-8: Exterior Display
3-5-9: Existing Adult Uses
3-5-10: Permit Renewal
3-5-11: Offenses
3-5-12: Penalties
3-5-13: Enlargement Or Change In Nature Of Use
3-5-14: Severability
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
ADULT BOOKSTORE: An establishment having, as a substantial or significant
portion of its sales or stock in trade, books, magazines, films for sale or for
viewing on the premises by use of motion picture devices or by coin operated
means, and periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas; or an establishment with a segment or
section devoted to the sale or display of such materials; or an establishment
that holds itself out to the public as a purveyor of such materials based upon
its signage, advertising, displays, actual sales, presence of video preview or
coin operated booths, exclusion of minors from the establishment's premises or
any other factors showing the establishment's primary purpose is to purvey such
material.
ADULT CLUB: A public or private establishment, a primary purpose of which is to
provide members or guests with a venue to perform specified sexual activities
with other members or guests.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET: A public or private establishment which:
   A.   Features topless dancers, strippers, "go-go" dancers, male or female
impersonators, lingerie or bathing suit fashion shows;
   B.   Not infrequently features entertainers who display specified anatomical
areas; or
   C.   Features entertainers who, by reason of their appearance or conduct,
perform in a manner which is designed primarily to appeal to the prurient
interest of the patron or features entertainers who engage in or are engaged in
explicit simulation of specified sexual activities.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY: As defined by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
5-1.5, "a striptease club or a pornographic movie theater whose business is the
commercial sale, dissemination, or distribution of sexually explicit material,
shows or other exhibitions or an adult bookstore or adult video store whose
primary business is the commercial sale, dissemination, or distribution of
sexually explicit material, shows or other exhibitions.".
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A building or area used for presenting materials
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons therein.
ADULT NOVELTY STORE: An establishment having a substantial or significant
portion of its sales or stock in trade consisting of toys, devices, clothing
"novelties", lotion and other items distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on or use for specialized sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas or an establishment that holds itself out to the public as a purveyor of
such materials based upon its signage, advertising, displays, actual sales,
exclusion of minors from the establishment's premises or any other factors
showing the establishment's primary purpose is to purvey such material.
ADULT USE: Adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult entertainment
cabarets, adult entertainment facilities, adult novelty stores, adult clubs,
and other similar uses of property within the village.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: A. Less than completely and opaquely covered: 1)
human genitals; 2) pubic region; 3) buttock; 4) female breasts below a point
immediately above the top of the areola; and
   B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: A. Human genitals in the state of sexual
stimulation or arousal;
   B.   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; and
   C.   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock or female breasts; and excretory functions as part of or in connection
with any of the foregoing activities. (Ord. RAU1-02, 10-24-2001)
3-5-2: LIQUOR SALE AND CONSUMPTION PROHIBITED:
No liquor license shall be issued and no liquor shall be sold or consumed on
the premises of any adult use. (Ord. RAU1-02, 10-24-2001)
3-5-3: LOCATION:
Adult uses are permitted only in areas zoned I-1 or I-2 under the zoning
regulations, provided:
   A.   No adult use shall be located within five hundred feet (500') of any
property which is zoned residential or used for residences, churches, schools,
parks or another adult use.
   B.   In accordance with section 11-5-1.5 of the Illinois municipal code 1 ,
no adult entertainment facility shall be located within one thousand feet
(1,000') of the property boundaries of any school, daycare center, cemetery,
public park, forest preserve, public housing, and place of religious worship.
   C.   No adult use shall be located in a building in which there is an
establishment selling alcoholic liquors. (Ord. RAU1-02, 10-24-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-5-1.5.
3-5-4: CRIMINAL BACKGROUND REQUIREMENT:
No permit shall be issued to a person who has been convicted of any felony or
misdemeanor involving prostitution, obscenity or other offense of a sexual
nature, or to a business entity, any manager or owner of five percent (5%) or
more of the interest of which has been convicted of such a crime. (Ord. RAU1-
02, 10-24-2001)
3-5-5: PERMIT REVIEW:
   A.   Permits for constructing or occupying an adult use shall be issued only
after the following review process. The applicant shall apply to the zoning
administrator for the permit. The application shall be accompanied by a three
hundred fifty dollar ($350.00) application fee. The application shall be on a
form substantially in the form attached as appendix A to the ordinance codified
herein.
   B.   The zoning administrator shall provide a copy of the application to the
chief of police and shall process the portion of the application marked "For
Zoning Administrator's Review" and shall forward the application to the village
board for review. Within sixty (60) days of filing, the village board shall
conduct a review of the application for conformance with this chapter and the
zoning and subdivision regulations of this code. The village board shall render
a decision as to whether the proposed adult use conforms with all village
ordinances and may determine conditions on the development and operation of the
adult use related to site plan, floor plan, construction materials, lighting,
parking and circulation, ingress and egress, landscaping and screening, and
signage in order to assure that the design and operation of the adult use is in
conformance with all village ordinances and is compatible with surrounding
uses. (Ord. RAU1-02, 10-24-2001)
3-5-6: ACTION BY CHIEF OF POLICE:
The chief of police shall run a criminal background check on all persons
disclosed by the application to have a five percent (5%) or greater ownership
interest in the permit application in order to verify that no such persons have
been convicted of the crimes of prostitution, obscenity, or other crimes of a
sexual nature. The chief of police shall report his findings to the village
board. (Ord. RAU1-02, 10-24-2001)
3-5-7: ACTION BY CORPORATE AUTHORITIES:
Within ninety (90) days of receipt, the village board shall, by resolution duly
made, seconded, passed, and signed by the village president, grant or deny the
permit. The village board's action shall specify the location, by legal
description and common address, of the adult use, and shall specify the nature
of the adult use permitted. The village board may place conditions on the adult
use. The village board's determination is a final agency action subject to
administrative review. (Ord. RAU1-02, 10-24-2001)
3-5-8: EXTERIOR DISPLAY:
No adult use shall be conducted in any manner that permits the observation of
any material depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas from any public way or from any property not
registered as an adult use. This section shall apply to any display,
decoration, sign, show window or other opening. (Ord. RAU1-02, 10-24-2001)
3-5-9: EXISTING ADULT USES:
Any adult use which existed lawfully, but which became nonconforming upon the
effective date hereof, may be continued as hereinafter provided:
   A.   Upon written notice from the village to the owners or interests therein
that any building, structure, lot or regulated use is nonconforming under the
provisions of the zoning ordinance, as amended, the owners or interests therein
shall, within two (2) months from the date of such notice, apply to the village
clerk for a certificate of nonconformance.
   B.   Failure to apply for a certificate of nonconformance within two (2)
months of the notice provided in subsection A of this section will require the
amortization of the nonconformance within six (6) months of the notice provided
in subsection A of this section.
   C.   When there has been an application for a certificate of nonconformance
from the village clerk, said nonconformance shall be discontinued within one
year of the notice provided in subsection A of this section. (Ord. RAU1-02, 10-
24-2001)
3-5-10: PERMIT RENEWAL:
   A.   Except as set forth in subsection B of this section, a permit granted
pursuant to this chapter is valid until December 31 of the year in which it is
granted. During the month of December of each year, each licensee shall apply
for a permit renewal, using the permit renewal application set forth as
appendix B to the ordinance codified herein. A renewal permit, when granted,
shall be valid until December 31 of the following year. The annual permit
renewal fee shall be fifty dollars ($50.00).
   B.   Upon any change in ownership of greater than five percent (5%) of a
corporate or LLC licensee, the licensee shall apply for a permit renewal, using
the application set forth in appendix B to the ordinance codified herein. The
renewal permit shall be valid until December 31 of the year in which it was
issued.
   C.   The chief of police shall run a criminal background check on all
persons disclosed by a renewal application under either subsection A or B of
this section to have a five percent (5%) or greater ownership interest in the
applicant in order to verify that no such persons have been convicted of the
crimes of prostitution, obscenity, or other crimes of a sexual nature. The
chief of police shall report his findings to the village president. Renewal
permits shall be granted by the village president unless the village president
finds that the applicant is in violation of this chapter or any other provision
of this code, or of the conditions of the original permit. Any denial of a
renewal permit application is subject to administrative review. (Ord. RAU1-02,
10-24-2001)
3-5-11: OFFENSES:
   A.   No natural person, and no legal person such as a corporation, limited
liability company, or other business entity, shall own, manage, or operate an
adult use within the corporate limits of the village without a permit from the
village obtained in accordance with this chapter.
   B.   No natural person, and no legal person such as a corporation, limited
liability company, or other business entity, shall provide false information on
an application for an adult use permit.
   C.   No natural person, and no legal person such as a corporation, limited
liability company, or other business entity, shall own, manage or operate an
adult use within the corporate limits of the village except in conformance with
this chapter. (Ord. RAU1-02, 10-24-2001)
3-5-12: PENALTIES:
Natural and legal persons found guilty of violating this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day
a violation occurs shall be deemed a separate offense. Where a corporation,
limited liability company or other legal person owns or operates an adult use,
all officers, directors, managers and employees who knowingly participated in
management decisions shall be liable to the same extent as the legal person.
(Ord. RAU1-02, 10-24-2001)
3-5-13: ENLARGEMENT OR CHANGE IN NATURE OF USE:
An adult use permit is specific to a location and to a use. No adult use may be
enlarged, nor the nature of the adult use changed, without the owner and
manager thereof securing a new permit. (Ord. RAU1-02, 10-24-2001)
3-5-14: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter are severable. If any provision of this chapter
or if section 11-5-1.5 of the Illinois municipal code 1  is invalidated by a
court of law, then the offending section of this chapter shall be severed, and
the remainder of this chapter shall be enforced to the full extent possible.
(Ord. RAU1-02, 10-24-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-5-1.5.
CHAPTER 6
HOTEL OPERATORS' OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
3-6-1: Short Title
3-6-2: Definitions
3-6-3: Imposition Of Tax; Exemptions; Refunds
3-6-4: Disposition And Use Of Proceeds
3-6-5: Operator Books And Records
3-6-6: Taxpayer Return
3-6-7: Payment Of Tax; Late Payment; Collection
3-6-8: Penalties
3-6-9: Severability
3-6-10: Statute Authority
3-6-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the VILLAGE OF DIVERNON HOTEL OPERATORS'
OCCUPATION TAX, and the tax herein imposed shall be in addition to the
occupation or privilege taxes imposed by the state of Illinois and any other
tax imposed by the village. (Ord. HMT-04-1, 2-4-2004)
3-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the following
words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
HOTEL: Any building or buildings in which the public may, for consideration,
obtain living quarters or sleeping or housekeeping accommodations. The term
includes inns, motels, tourist homes or courts, bed and breakfast
accommodations, lodging houses, rooming houses and apartment houses.
OCCUPANCY: The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of any
room or rooms in a hotel for any purpose, or the right to the use or possession
of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use
and possession of the room or rooms.
OPERATOR: Any person operating a hotel.
PERMANENT RESIDENT: Any person who occupied or has the right to occupy any room
or rooms in a hotel for at least thirty (30) consecutive days.
PERSON: A natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint venture, public or private corporation, or a receiver, executor,
trustee, guardian or other representative appointed by order of any court.
RENT OR RENTAL: The consideration received for occupancy, valued in money,
whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits
and property or services of any kind or nature.
ROOM OR ROOMS: Any living quarters or sleeping or housekeeping accommodations.
(Ord. HMT-04-1, 2-4-2004)
3-6-3: IMPOSITION OF TAX; EXEMPTIONS; REFUNDS:
   A.   A tax is imposed upon persons engaged in the business of renting,
leasing or letting rooms in a hotel at the rate of five percent (5%) of the
gross rental receipts from such renting, leasing or letting, excluding,
however, from gross rental receipts, the proceeds of such renting, leasing or
letting to permanent residents of that hotel.
   B.   Persons subject to the tax imposed by this chapter may reimburse
themselves for their tax liability for such tax by separately stating such tax
as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in a single
amount, with the state of Illinois tax imposed under "the hotel operators'
occupation tax act" 1 .
   C.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to authorize the village to
impose a tax upon the privilege of engaging in any business which, under the
constitution of the United States, may not be made the subject of taxation by
the state of Illinois.
   D.   If any hotel operator collects an amount (however designated) which
purports to reimburse such operator for tax under this chapter measured by
receipts which are not subject to tax under this chapter, or if any hotel
operator, in collecting an amount (however designated) which purports to
reimburse such operator for tax under which this chapter measured by receipts
which are subject to tax under this chapter, collects more from the customer
than the operator's in the transaction, the customer shall have a legal right
to claim a refund of such amount from such operator. However, if such amount is
not refunded to the customer for any reason, the hotel operator is liable to
pay such amount to the village treasurer. (Ord. HMT-04-1, 2-4-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 145/1 et seq.
3-6-4: DISPOSITION AND USE OF PROCEEDS:
The amounts collected by the village pursuant to this chapter, including
penalties, shall be deposited into the village general fund and expended by the
village as directed by the village board of trustees in conjunction with the
president of the village board of trustees. (Ord. HMT-04-1, 2-4-2004)
3-6-5: OPERATOR BOOKS AND RECORDS:
   A.   Every operator shall keep accurate, separate books on record of his
business as an operator so as to show, on a daily basis: 1) the rents and
occupancies taxable under this chapter separately from transactions not taxable
hereunder; and 2) the amount of taxes owed pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   The village treasurer, or his authorized representative, may enter the
premises of any hotel, upon reasonable notice, to inspect and examine such
books or records in order to effectuate the proper administration of this
chapter and to assure the enforcement of the tax imposed. It shall be unlawful
for any person to prevent, hinder or interfere with the village treasurer, or
his authorized representative, in the discharge of his duties in the
performance of this chapter. (Ord. HMT-04-1, 2-4-2004)
3-6-6: TAXPAYER RETURN:
   A.   Except as provided in this section, on or before the last day of each
calendar month, every person engaged in the business of renting, leasing or
letting rooms in a hotel in the village during the preceding calendar month
shall file a return with the village, stating:
      1.   The name of the operator.
      2.   His residence address and the address of his principal place of
business and the address of the principal place of business (if that is a
different address) from which he engages in the business of renting, leasing or
letting rooms in a hotel in the village.
      3.   Total amount of rental receipts received by him during the preceding
calendar month from renting, leasing or letting rooms during such preceding
calendar month.
      4.   Total amount of rental receipts received by him during the preceding
calendar month from renting, leasing or letting rooms to permanent residents
during such preceding calendar month.
      5.   Total amount of other exclusions from gross rental receipts allowed
by this chapter.
      6.   Gross rental receipts which were received by him during the
preceding calendar month and upon the basis of which the tax is imposed.
      7.   The amount of tax due.
      8.   The amount of penalty due, if any.
      9.   Such other reasonable information as the village treasurer may
require.
   B.   If the operator's average monthly tax liability to the village does not
exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00), the village may authorize his returns to
be filed on a quarter annual basis, with the return for January, February and
March of a given year being due by April 30 of such year; with the return for
April, May and June of a given year being due by July 31 of such year; with the
return for July, August and September of a given year being due by October 31
of such year, and with the return for October, November and December of a given
year being due by January 31 of the following year. If the operator's average
monthly tax liability to the village does not exceed fifty dollars ($50.00),
the village may authorize his returns to be filed on an annual basis, with the
return for a given year being due by January 31 of the following year. Such
quarter annual and annual returns, as to form and substance, shall be subject
to the same requirements as monthly returns.
   C.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter concerning the time
within which an operator may file his return, in the case of any operator who
ceases to engage in a kind of business which makes him responsible for filing
returns under this chapter, such operator shall file a final return under this
chapter with the village not more than one month after discontinuing such
business.
   D.   Where the same person has more than one business registered with the
Illinois department of revenue under separate registrations under the hotel
operators' occupational tax act, 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 145/1 et seq.,
such person shall not file each return that is due as a single return covering
all such registered businesses but shall file separate returns for each such
registered business.
   E.   In his return, the operator shall determine the value of any
consideration, other than money, received by him in connection with the
renting, leasing and letting of rooms in the course of his business, and he
shall include such value in his return. Such determination shall be subject to
review and revision by the village treasurer in the manner hereinafter provided
for the correction of returns.
   F.   Where the operator is a corporation, the return filed on behalf of such
corporation shall be signed by the president, vice president, secretary or
treasurer or by the properly accredited agent of such corporation. (Ord. HMT-
04-1, 2-4-2004)
3-6-7: PAYMENT OF TAX; LATE PAYMENT; COLLECTION:
   A.   The person required to file the return herein provided shall, at the
time of filing such return, pay to the village treasurer the amount of tax
herein imposed. All monies received by the village treasurer under the
provisions of this chapter shall be deposited into the village general fund.
   B.   If the tax or any portion thereof is not paid when due, a penalty of
one percent (1%) of the delinquent amount per month (or portion thereof) from
the date of delinquency shall be due and owing.
   C.   Whenever any person shall fail to pay any tax as herein provided, the
village attorney shall, upon request of the board of trustees, bring or cause
to be brought an action to enforce the payment of said tax on behalf of the
village in any court of competent jurisdiction. The village may recover its
costs for enforcing such provision including reasonable attorney fees incurred
during such collection efforts.
   D.   The village shall have all powers necessary to enforce the collection
of the tax imposed by this chapter as set forth by the statutes and laws of the
state of Illinois including, but not limited to, the power of enforcement by
lien contained in section 8-3-15 of the Illinois municipal code 1 . (Ord. HMT-
04-1, 2-4-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-3-15.
3-6-8: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person found wilfully guilty of failing to pay, report and transmit
said hotel tax to the village treasurer in accordance with the terms of this
chapter shall, except when otherwise specifically provided, upon conviction
thereof, be punishable by a fine of not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00)
nor more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) for the first offense, and not
less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for the second and each subsequent offense in any one hundred eighty
(180) day period; provided, however, that all actions seeking the imposition of
fines only shall be filed as quasi- criminal actions subject to the provisions
of the Illinois civil practice act (Illinois supreme court rule 1 et seq.).
   B.   Repeated offenses in excess of three (3) within any one hundred eighty
(180) day period may also be punishable as a misdemeanor by incarceration at
the county jail for a term not to exceed six (6) months under the procedures
set forth in section 1-2-1.1 of the Illinois municipal code 1  and of the
provisions of the Illinois code of criminal procedure 2  in a separate
proceeding. A separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each
day upon which said person shall continue any such violation, or permit any
such violation to exist after notification thereof. (Ord. HMT-04-1, 2-4-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.1.
2 2. 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
3-6-9: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter, or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances, is held invalid, the remainder of this chapter and the
application of such provisions to other persons or circumstances shall not be
affected thereby. (Ord. HMT-04-1, 2-4-2004)
3-6-10: STATUTE AUTHORITY:
This chapter is adopted pursuant to the provisions of section
8-3-13 et seq., of the Illinois municipal code 1 . (Ord. HMT-04-1, 2-4-2004)
 
Notes
1 3. 65 ILCS 5/8-3-13 et seq.
CHAPTER 7
BEER GARDENS
SECTION:
3-7-1: Definitions
3-7-2: License
3-7-3: License Fee
3-7-4: Application
3-7-5: Beer Garden Requirements
3-7-6: Temporary Beer Garden Requirements
3-7-7: Discretion
3-7-8: Enforcement And Penalties
3-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
BEER GARDEN: An open air, roofed or unroofed area adjacent to or accessory to a
"Class I tavern" licensed premises, where beer and other alcoholic beverages
are served or consumed.
SPECIAL EVENT: For the purposes of this chapter shall be defined as an event
for which a special "Class I tavern" license is obtained or an event not within
the ordinary course of a licensee's business including, but not limited to,
promotion days, celebrations and festivals open to general public and other
similar events.
TEMPORARY BEER GARDEN: A beer garden established for special events, as defined
in this section. (Ord. 2016-002, 4-13-2016)
3-7-2: LICENSE:
   A.   Beer Garden License: No person shall hereafter keep, maintain, conduct
or operate any beer garden as defined in section
3-7-1 of this chapter without first obtaining a beer garden license. A license
can only be issued to a current holder of a "Class I tavern" license.
   B.   Temporary Beer Garden License: No business shall possess, sell or offer
for sale any alcohol beverages in any parking lot or any other open area for
any special event unless a temporary beer garden is established in accordance
with the following provisions. (Ord. 2016-002, 4-13-2016)
3-7-3: LICENSE FEE:
The annual fee for a beer garden license shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00), non-pro-rated and every license shall be renewed by or terminated on
or after July 1 in conjunction with the "Class I tavern" liquor licenses. A
temporary beer garden license shall be twenty dollars ($20.00) per each special
event. (Ord. 2016-002, 4-13-2016)
3-7-4: APPLICATION:
Applications for a beer garden license and a temporary beer garden license
shall be made on a form developed by the Village and shall be submitted at
least fifteen (15) days prior to action by the Village Board. Applications must
include a detailed diagram of the beer garden area. (Ord. 2016-002, 4-13-2016)
3-7-5: BEER GARDEN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No beer garden shall be permitted within two hundred feet (200') of
land zoned for human residence unless approved by all owners of residential
property within two hundred feet (200') and the Village Board by two-thirds (2/
3) vote.
   B.   Other than the initial application, persons renewing a beer garden
license shall not be required to obtain approval by all the owners of
residential property within two hundred feet (200'), except if the license
holder has been convicted of a violation of this Code or State law pertaining
to alcohol beverage laws or beer garden regulations, whichever occur prior to
renewal.
   C.   The Village Clerk shall refer all applications for beer garden licenses
to the Zoning Administrator for inspection. The Zoning Administrator shall
furnish to the Village Board in writing a recommendation as to whether the
license should be granted. Upon approval of the Village Board and payment of
the license fee, the Village Clerk shall issue the license authorizing a beer
garden to the applicant.
   D.   No beer garden shall be permitted, maintained, or operated except on
conformity with the following regulations.
      1.   A description of the beer garden area shall be included in the
application and license for a "Class I tavern" licensed premises.
      2.   The beer garden must be contiguous to a currently licensed premises.
      3.   The beer garden must have direct access into existing premises from
the beer garden area.
      4.   No public property may be utilized unless applying in conjunction
with a sidewalk cafe license allowed only in the downtown area.
      5.   Except for open air, roofed or unroofed areas which are part of the
"Class I tavern" licensed premises and not at ground level, such as a deck or
porch, which comply with all applicable Safety and Building Codes, the
construction of the beer garden shall be as follows:
         a.   A fence is required. Fence requirements shall be based on the
location of the establishment, adjoining land use, lot and building size,
proximity to residential properties and streets, and construction materials in
accordance with section
10-6-3, "Fences", of this Code.
         b.   There must be adequately displayed signage warning that alcoholic
beverages shall not be passed over the area's barrier or be removed from the
licensed area.
         c.   Beer gardens shall have a maximum capacity of one person for each
ten (10) net square feet of the floor area of the beer garden. The capacity of
the beer garden shall be posted in the garden.
      6.   All electrical wiring shall comply with National, State, and Village
Building and Construction Codes.
      7.   All beer garden areas shall comply with National, State, and Village
Building and Construction Codes in regards to number of toilets, exit lights,
and other relevant regulations contained therein.
      8.   All emergency exits shall have a gate(s) which swing to egress and
must swing free and clear of any public sidewalk. Gates must include approved
latch hardware, which shall be mounted only on the inside.
      9.   All combustible rubbish shall be stored in non-combustible, covered
containers.
      10.   Amplified sound or music shall not be permitted after ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M. Sunday through Thursday and after eleven thirty o'clock (11:30)
P.M. on Friday and Saturday evenings. Requests for a specific and limited
variance to this section can be made directly to the Village Board. This
section shall not be construed to limit the authority of the Police Department
to respond to complaints and to take any appropriate action in response
thereto.
      11.   The "Class I tavern" licensee and/or agent shall be responsible for
all violations of this section and subject to compliance with any and all
Village, State and local regulations. (Ord. 2016-002, 4-13-2016)
3-7-6: TEMPORARY BEER GARDEN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Temporary Beer Garden Within Village Parks: All temporary beer garden
and "special" licenses issued for use in the Village of Divernon Municipal
parks shall require the applicant to comply with the following provisions.
      1.   Insurance: Must include a certificate of insurance for one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00) general liability naming the Village of Divernon as
additional insured.
      2.   Fencing:
         a.   Erect a fenced beer garden defined as an enclosed area with
specially marked entrances and exits and consisting of a fence or wall not less
than three feet (3') in height. No fence which defines a temporary beer garden
area shall be located closer than five feet (5') away from the adjacent public
right-of-way. Consumption of alcoholic beverages shall be restricted to that
area within the confines of the beer garden; or
         b.   Obtain a specific waiver of the fencing requirements contained
within subsection A2a of this section from the Village Board. The request shall
be submitted upon a form provided by the Village Clerk and shall be filed at
the time of license application. The request shall specify what safeguards the
licensee will take to prevent abuse in the dispersion and consumption of
alcoholic beverages. The Village Board may grant or deny, in whole or in part,
or may grant subject to conditions the waiver requested.
      3.   Sponsoring Organization: The sponsoring organization may prohibit
beverage carry-ins of any type, limiting consumption to those beverages sold
within the confines of the beer garden or part of the park as specified in the
application. The sponsoring organization shall place signs at all entrances to
the beer garden or part of the park specified and at such other locations as
specified by the Police Department as necessary to give persons reasonable
notice of this prohibition. Such signs shall be a minimum of eight and one-half
inches (81/2") by eleven inches (11"), bright yellow in color, and shall
specify No Carry in Beverages Allowed within this Area pursuant to Section 3 of
the Village of Divernon Code of Ordinances in letters at least one-half inch
(1/2") high. No person shall bring into or possess within the area designated
any carry-in beverages.
      4.   Park Perimeter Fence: The cost of procuring, installing,
maintaining, and disassembling any of the beer garden fence, park perimeter
fence or similar demarcation device shall be borne by the licensee or his
designated agent. Restitution or remuneration for damage to Village property
shall be at the sole expense of the applicant.
      5.   Hours Of Operation: Hours of operation in any park shall not start
before nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. Monday through Saturday and one o'clock (1:00)
P.M. on Sunday. Operations shall close by ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. every day of
the week. The sale of alcohol is prohibited after nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
except in those instances wherein the Village Board, by resolution, grants an
extension of hours.
      6.   Sound Or Music: Amplified sound or music shall not be permitted
after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. Sunday through Thursday and after eleven thirty
o'clock (11:30) P.M. on Friday and Saturday evenings. Requests for a specific
and limited variance to this section can be made directly to the Village Board.
This section shall not be construed to limit the authority of the Police
Department to respond to complaints and to take any appropriate action in
response thereto.
   B.   All Other Temporary Beer Gardens: All temporary beer garden licenses
not issued for use in any Village of Divernon park, rather on property held by
a licensed business, shall require the applicant to comply with the following
provisions.
      1.   Fencing:
         a.   Erect a fenced beer garden defined as an enclosed area with
specially marked entrances and exits and consisting of a fence or wall not less
than three feet (3') in height. No fence which defines a temporary beer garden
area shall be located closer than five feet (5') away from the adjacent public
right-of-way. Consumption of alcohol beverages shall be restricted to that area
within the confines of the beer garden; or
         b.   Obtain a specific waiver of the fencing requirements contained
within subsection B1a of this section from the Village Board. The request shall
be submitted upon a form provided by the Village Clerk and shall be filed at
the time of license application. The request shall specify what safeguards the
licensee will take to prevent abuse in the dispersion and consumption of
alcoholic beverages. The Village Board may grant or deny, in whole or in part,
or may grant subject to conditions the waiver requested.
      2.   Hours Of Operation: Hours of operation shall not start before nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. Monday through Saturday and one o'clock (1:00) P.M. on
Sunday. Operations shall close by ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. Sunday through
Thursday evenings and by eleven thirty o'clock (11:30) P.M. on Friday and
Saturday evenings. The sale of alcohol is prohibited after ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M. except in those instances wherein the Village Board, by resolution, grants
an extension of hours.
      3.   Sound Or Music: Amplified sound or music shall not be permitted
after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. Sunday through Thursday and after eleven thirty
o'clock (11:30) P.M. on Friday and Saturday evenings. Requests for a specific
and limited variance to this section can be made directly to the Village Board.
This section shall not be construed to limit the authority of the Police
Department to respond to complaints and to take any appropriate action in
response thereto. (Ord. 2016-002, 4-13-2016)
3-7-7: DISCRETION:
The Village Board shall have discretion to refuse the granting of any license
or transfer thereof if, in its judgement, the granting or transfer of such
license shall be against the public interests, either because of the
unsuitability of the location, undesirability or unreliability of the applicant
or applicant's manager or because of the failure of the applicant or
applicant's manager to observe the provisions of the Village of Divernon's
ordinances in the prior conduct of a bar, tavern, beer garden or other similar
place. (Ord. 2016-002, 4-13-2016)
3-7-8: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Any violations of this chapter may result in the suspension or
revocation of any "Class I tavern" license for such premises.
   B.   Any person who violates, disobeys or refuses to comply with or who
resists the enforcement of any provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a forfeiture of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
each such offense. (Ord. 2016-002, 4-13-2016)
CHAPTER 8
SIDEWALK CAFES
SECTION:
3-8-1: Purpose And Intent
3-8-2: Permit Required; Fee
3-8-3: Eligible Establishments
3-8-4: Application For Permit
3-8-5: Standards For Issuance Of Permit
3-8-6: Effect Of Permit
3-8-7: Liability Of Permit Holder
3-8-8: Insurance
3-8-9: Revocation Or Suspension Of Permit
3-8-10: Appeal From Denial, Revocation Or Issuance Of Permit
3-8-11: Maintenance Of Premises
3-8-12: Hours Of Operation
3-8-13: Music, Lighting And Outdoor Cooking
3-8-14: Furniture, Fixtures And Signage
3-8-15: Permit; Term; Renewals
3-8-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
This chapter is designed to permit outdoor dining in areas where it is
appropriate and to promote and protect the public health, safety and general
welfare of the public. Specific purposes of this chapter are:
   A.   To ensure adequate space for pedestrians on the sidewalk adjacent to
outdoor dining areas.
   B.   To preserve and enhance the character of the neighborhoods where such
outdoor dining is permitted in the Village and to protect the adjacent areas.
   C.   To promote the most desirable use of land. (Ord. 2016-002, 4-13-2016)
3-8-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   No outdoor dining shall be allowed unless a permit has first been
obtained from the Village Clerk.
   B.   The fee for such permit shall be in such amount as determined from time
to time by resolution of the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2016-002, 4-13-2016)
3-8-3: ELIGIBLE ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Only commercial establishments with a proper certificate of occupancy
for restaurant use which has heretofore been duly issued by the Village of
Divernon or authority having jurisdiction, which take orders and maintains
table service within their establishments, may take orders and serve food and
beverages in such outdoor dining areas.
   B.   Other commercial establishments that are not restaurants referred to in
subsection A of this section, which sell food, may apply for an outdoor dining
permit but may not take orders or serve food and beverages at such outdoor
dining areas.
   C.   Other commercial establishments, with the permission of the Board of
Trustees, are eligible. (Ord. 2016-002, 4-13-2016)
3-8-4: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Any application for outdoor dining shall be made to the Village Clerk
in writing on a form prescribed by the Village Clerk's Office.
   B.   Such application shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant.
      2.   The name, address and telephone number of the establishment to be
the subject of the application and the name and telephone number of the owner
and/or operator of the establishment or designated responsible representative.
      3.   Whether alcoholic beverages are to be served and, if so, a copy of
the appropriate liquor license issued by the State of Illinois is to be
attached to the application.
      4.   A survey of the subject property also indicating the adjacent
property which is Village owned.
      5.   A plan showing the complete sidewalk area, with the location of all
furniture and fixtures to be used, including a fully dimensioned seating plan
and the location of entrances and exits.
      6.   Descriptive material showing all furniture and fixtures to be used
and how such furniture and fixtures shall be stored and/or secured during
nonoperational hours.
      7.   Whether live or mechanically reproduced music is to be played and a
description and site location of the facilities, equipment or other devices
needed for amplification of sound.
      8.   Proof of insurance as required in section
3-8-8 of this chapter.
      9.   Any other information the Village Clerk may find reasonably
necessary to determine whether a permit should be issued. (Ord. 2016-002, 4-13-
2016)
3-8-5: STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
The following standards shall apply:
   A.   The proposed outdoor dining will not interfere with pedestrian traffic
or use of the Village owned portion of the property adjacent to the
establishment.
   B.   The applicant is in compliance with and has met all other applicable
provisions in this chapter and those in the Building and Zoning Codes. (Ord.
2016-002, 4-13-2016)
3-8-6: EFFECT OF PERMIT:
   A.   The consumption of alcoholic beverages of any and all types and kinds
in such outdoor dining areas is prohibited unless served by the licensed
premises and accompanied by the service and consumption of food. It is the
responsibility of the owner and/or operator of the premises who has obtained a
permit hereunder for outdoor dining to ensure compliance with this provision.
   B.   A permit holder shall be bound by all applicable rules, regulations,
ordinances, local laws and statutes. The Board of Trustees may, by resolution,
adopt, from time to time, any additional rules and regulations pertaining to
such permits. The permit may be conditioned on modifications or restrictions
intended to ensure compliance with all applicable rules, regulations,
ordinances, local laws and statutes and the general protection of health,
safety and welfare.
   C.   No other activities of any nature conducted now or hereafter by any
commercial establishment, enterprise, business, venture or shop in the Village,
otherwise prohibited by all applicable rules, regulations, ordinances, local
laws or statutes are changed, amended, suspended or altered in any respect
because of this chapter.
   D.   Such outdoor dining activities shall be limited to areas directly to
the front or rear of each dining establishment and not extend beyond the
property lines. There shall be a minimum of five feet (5') total sidewalk width
clearance to provide adequate and unobstructed pedestrian movement, such width
to be measured from the outermost point of the outdoor dining area to the
nearest obstruction. (Ord. 2016-002, 4-13-2016)
3-8-7: LIABILITY OF PERMIT HOLDER:
The person or persons to whom a permit for outdoor dining has been issued shall
be liable and shall indemnify the Village for any loss, damage, or injury or
expense sustained by the Village arising out of any claim or cause of action
instituted or commenced by any person or persons arising out of the issuance of
such permit or as a direct or indirect result of the operation of such outdoor
dining area. (Ord. 2016-002, 4-13-2016)
3-8-8: INSURANCE:
Prior to the issuance of a permit, the applicant for a permit shall present to
the Village a certificate of insurance for comprehensive general liability,
naming the Village of Divernon as additional insured, for combined single
limits of no less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence and
two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) general aggregate and umbrella limits of
one million dollars ($1,000,000.00). (Ord. 2016-002, 4-13-2016)
3-8-9: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMIT:
The Village Board shall have the authority to revoke or suspend a permit, when,
in the Board's sole discretion, the Board finds a violation of any applicable
rule, regulation, ordinance, local law or statute, or that a continuation of
said permit would constitute a hazard or nuisance, or upon good cause shown.
(Ord. 2016-002, 4-13-2016)
3-8-10: APPEAL FROM DENIAL, REVOCATION OR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
Appeals from the issuance, denial, revocation or other condition of a permit
may be taken to the Village of Divernon Zoning Board of Appeals by any
aggrieved person within thirty (30) days from the date of the issuance, denial
or revocation, by filing a written notice of appeal with the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 2016-002, 4-13-2016)
3-8-11: MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES:
The outdoor dining area and adjacent areas shall be periodically cleaned and
kept refuse free. The outdoor dining area and adjacent areas shall be swept and
washed down each night just prior to closing and at other times as needed.
Sufficient containers for trash shall be placed in the outdoor dining area.
(Ord. 2016-002, 4-13-2016)
3-8-12: HOURS OF OPERATION:
   A.   Outdoor dining activities may take place between the hours of six
thirty o'clock (6:30) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on all days of the
week, except Sunday. Sunday hours shall be between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
   B.   No orders for food and/or beverages shall be taken after nine o'clock
(9:00) P.M. (Ord. 2016-002, 4-13-2016)
3-8-13: MUSIC, LIGHTING AND OUTDOOR COOKING:
Music may be provided so long as it is not of a type or volume as to violate
any applicable law or ordinance or create a nuisance to surrounding residents
or property owners. Lighting shall be minimal and shall be installed so that
direct or indirect illumination from the source of light shall not cause
illumination in excess of 0.5 footcandles on any abutting property. No outdoor
cooking of any type is permitted. (Ord. 2016-002, 4-13-2016)
3-8-14: FURNITURE, FIXTURES AND SIGNAGE:
All furniture and fixtures used in conjunction with outdoor dining must be of a
temporary nature and must be brought in at closing time or securely fastened
against the building facade during nonoperational hours. No signage shall be
permitted to be affixed to any temporary structures. Awnings shall be
adequately secured and retractable. Umbrellas over tables must be adequately
weighted. All furniture and fixtures shall be approved by the Zoning
Administrator. (Ord. 2016-002, 4-13-2016)
3-8-15: PERMIT; TERM; RENEWALS:
   A.   Permits shall be issued on or after July 1 of each year. All permits,
regardless of when issued, shall expire on the last day in June.
   B.   Applications for renewal of permits shall be made in the same manner as
original applications. Permits are not assignable. (Ord. 2016-002, 4-13-2016)
CHAPTER 9
ITINERANT FOOD VENDORS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
SECTION:
3-9-1: Definitions
3-9-2: License Requirements
3-9-3: Application For License
3-9-4: Fee
3-9-5: Processing Of License Application
3-9-6: Location
3-9-7: Conditions Of Licensure
3-9-8: Suspension And Revocation Of License
3-9-9: Penalty
3-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
ITINERANT FOOD VENDOR: A natural person selling or offering for sale, food or
beverages or both for human consumption on property belonging to the Village of
Divernon, including but not limited to the Village Square and parks. Itinerant
food vendor does not include a vendor who sets up for business for a period of
less than five (5) days in connection with a fair, carnival, festival or
similar gathering. Nor does itinerant food vendor include a vendor whose
business is located on private property or property belonging to some unit of
government other than the Village. (Ord. 2017-012, 12-13-2017)
3-9-2: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
Each itinerant food vendor shall have a current itinerant food vendor's license
from the Village and a current certificate of inspection from the Sangamon
County Health Department. (Ord. 2017-012, 12-13-2017)
3-9-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
An application for an itinerant food vendor license shall be made through the
Village of Divernon on forms specified by the Village Clerk. The applicant
shall designate the location or locations preferred by the applicant and
applicable dates, and the applicant shall provide the following information and
documents:
   A.   Name, residential address and social security number;
   B.   Copy of current state photo identification or driver's license;
   C.   Description of the food and beverages to be sold by the vendor;
   D.   Whether the applicant seeks an annual license or a ten-day license;
   E.   The date, or approximate date, of the applicant's latest previous
application for a license under this chapter, if any;
   F.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted, whether by
administrative adjudication or otherwise, of a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter, and whether the applicant's license has ever been
revoked;
   G.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of the commission of a
felony under the laws of the State of Illinois or any other state or Federal
law of the United States or is a registered sex offender;
   H.   The applicant's Illinois Department of Revenue identification number
for Retailers' Occupation Tax. (Ord. 2017-012, 12-13-2017)
3-9-4: FEE:
The license application shall be accompanied by the following fees:
   A.   Two hundred dollars ($200.00) for an annual license good for one year
from the date of issuance; or
   B.   Forty dollars ($40.00) for a license good for one day; plus
   C.   A twenty five dollar ($25.00) background check fee for the applicant's
first application in any single calendar year. (Ord. 2017-012, 12-13-2017)
3-9-5: PROCESSING OF LICENSE APPLICATION:
   A.   The Village Clerk shall process the license application and, in
conjunction therewith, the Chief of Police shall perform a background check on
the applicant.
   B.   No license shall be issued by the Village Clerk to any person who has
been convicted of a felony under the laws of the State of Illinois or any other
state or Federal law of the United States, within five (5) years of the date of
the application; nor to any person who is a registered sex offender, nor to a
person who has been twice convicted in the previous five (5) years of a
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, nor to a person whose
license pursuant to this chapter has been revoked in the previous five (5)
years, nor to a person lacking a Sangamon County Health Department certificate
and an Illinois Department of Revenue tax identification number.
   C.   If a license application is denied, the applicant may appeal the denial
to the Village Board. (Ord. 2017-012, 12-13-2017)
3-9-6: LOCATION:
The Village President shall designate all locations for itinerant food vendors
within the Village, and shall not approve more licenses than there are
designated locations. An itinerant food vendor shall notify the Village twenty
four (24) hours prior to opening for business. All locations for itinerant food
vendors shall be reserved on a first come, first served basis, and licensees
shall contact the Village office to reserve location. Vendors may not open for
business unless the location has been reserved. (Ord. 2017-012, 12-13-2017)
3-9-7: CONDITIONS OF LICENSURE:
   A.   The licensee shall at all times maintain a Sangamon County Health
Department certificate of inspection and shall prominently display such
certificate and the Village itinerant food vendor's license.
   B.   The interior and the exterior of every food vending vehicle and all
equipment therein shall have smooth washable surfaces and shall be maintained
in good repair and in a sanitary manner. All trash and any other waste must be
placed in a trash receptacle or removed from the property.
   C.   Hours of operation are limited to one-half (1/2) hour after sunrise to
one-half (1/2) hour before sunset and to a maximum of twelve (12) hours in any
24-hour period.
   D.   The licensee shall be limited to one vehicle or one pushcart, which
shall not be stored on public property during hours when the licensee is not
open for business. The licensee shall not advertise on public property except
for signage on the vendor's vehicle or pushcart.
   E.   The licensee shall not utilize Village utilities.
   F.   The licensee may use employees and agents but shall have workers'
compensation insurance coverage for any employees and shall be personally
present at all times sales or offers for sales are being made.
   G.   The licensee shall faithfully make Retailers' Occupation Tax returns
and pay Retailers' Occupation Taxes. (Ord. 2017-012, 12-13-2017)
3-9-8: SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   The Village Code enforcement official is charged with enforcing this
chapter.
   B.   In event of a violation of the license conditions that in the opinion
of the Code enforcement official, poses an imminent threat to public health or
safety, the Code enforcement official may suspend the licensee's license
pending correction of the condition to the satisfaction of the Code enforcement
official, or at the licensee's option, pending hearing in Sangamon County
Circuit Court.
   C.   In the event the Code enforcement official discovers that a licensee
has become ineligible for license, the Code enforcement official may revoke the
license, subject to administrative review in the Circuit Court pursuant to the
Administrative Review Law. (Ord. 2017-012, 12-13-2017)
3-9-9: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person operating as an itinerant food vendor within the Village
without an itinerant food vendor license shall, upon conviction thereof, be
subject to a fine of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day the
violation continues shall be a separate offense.
   B.   Any holder of an itinerant food vendor license who violates any term of
this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense. In addition, the holder's license may be suspended for up to ten (10)
days for a first offense, and up to thirty (30) days for any subsequent
offense, by the Village Board. Each day a violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense. (Ord. 2017-012, 12-13-2017)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-1-1: Burning Of Buildings Prohibited
4-1-2: Conditions For Controlled Permissible Burning
4-1-1: BURNING OF BUILDINGS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to wilfully burn any building, for any
reason, under any condition, including the training of firefighters, within the
limits of the village.
   B.   Penalty: Any person found guilty of violating subsection A of this
section shall be subject to a fine of not more than two thousand five hundred
dollars ($2,500.00) nor less than five hundred dollars ($500.00), and in
addition shall be subject for the liability of any and all damages to any and
all property, both public and private. Also, such person shall be subject for
the liability of any and all personal injury caused by the violation, either
directly or indirectly, and each case may be considered as a separate offense.
(Ord., 11-27-1985)
4-1-2: CONDITIONS FOR CONTROLLED PERMISSIBLE BURNING:
   A.   Definitions: The following words and phrases as used in this section
shall have the following meanings, unless a different meaning is required by
the context:
    CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS: Any material generated from a
construction or demolition project which is a wood or wood byproduct. This does
not include nonwood products such as shingles, plastics, rubber, fiberglass,
drywall, plaster, paint, or petroleum products.
   GARBAGE: Any refuse resulting from the handling, process, preparation,
cooking, and consumption of food or food products; any other nonwood household
waste items such as plastics, rubber, fiberglass, metals, diapers, paint, or
petroleum byproducts.
   LANDSCAPE WASTE: Any vegetable or plant refuse, except garbage, including
tree trimmings, branches, brush, weeds, leaves, grass, yard trimmings, or crop
residues.
   OPEN BURNING: The combustion of any matter in such a way that the products
of combustion are emitted into the open air.
   B.   Prohibitions On Open Burning:
      1.   Prohibited Burning: No person shall cause or allow open burning of
any garbage, hazardous waste, nonwood products, human or animal feces or human
or animal flesh, on the ground or in any container.
      2.   Public Property: No person shall cause or allow any burning on a
street, gutter, curb, sidewalk, or property owned by the village.
      3.   Transportation Into Village: No material of any kind may be
transported into the village for the purpose of burning. All wastes must be
burned on the premises where they were generated.
      4.   Hours: No fires, except for permitted recreational fires, may be
started before seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. or allowed to burn past seven o'clock
(7:00) P.M.
      5.   Required Distance: No fire may be located less than twenty five feet
(25') from any building or private property.
      6.   Endangerment: No person shall cause or allow any burning whenever
local health and safety officials, the Illinois environmental protection agency
officials, or fire safety officials determine that a fire would endanger
health, safety, or welfare, or when it becomes a nuisance or discomfort, or
when it would create a visibility hazard on the streets or sidewalks of the
village.
   C.   Permissible Burning:
      1.   Permitted Burning: Limited amounts of landscape waste, construction
and demolition debris, paper, wood or wood byproducts may be burned on the
ground or in a suitable container, chamber, barrel, or incinerator provided
that the conditions of this section are met.
      2.   Attendance Required: All open fires shall be constantly attended by
a competent person not less than eighteen (18) years of age.
      3.   Extinguishment Equipment: A garden hose connected to a reliable
water supply or other fire extinguishment equipment must be readily available
within twenty five feet (25') of any fire.
      4.   Compliance Required: Fires for legitimate private or public
recreational purposes are allowed, provided conditions of this section are met.
   D.   Penalty: Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be fined
according to the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 1-9-1996)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Nuisances Declared Unlawful
4-2-2: Nuisances Defined Generally
4-2-3: General Enforcement
4-2-4: Enumeration Not Exclusive
4-2-5: Duty Of Village Officers To Investigate; Power Of Entry
4-2-6: Notice To Proper Officials
4-2-7: Notice To Abate Nuisance
4-2-8: Duty To Abate; Time Limits
4-2-9: Failure To Abate; Separate And Recurring Offense
4-2-10: Abatement By Village
4-2-11: Summary Abatement By Village; Emergency; Public Property
4-2-12: Costs Of Abatement; Debt Of Owner
4-2-13: Penalty
4-2-1: NUISANCES DECLARED UNLAWFUL 1 :
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person to
willfully or negligently create, erect, maintain or permit a nuisance to exist
anywhere within the Village. (Ord. 2017-009, 10-11-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-60-2, power of Village to define, prevent and abate
  nuisances.
4-2-2: NUISANCES DEFINED GENERALLY:
It is hereby declared a nuisance for any thing, act, omission, occupation or
condition to exist or continue for such a length of time as to:
   A.   Substantially annoy, injure or endanger the health, safety, peace or
welfare of the public; or
   B.   In any way render the public insecure in life or property; or
   C.   Greatly offend the public morals or decency; or
   D.   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or render
dangerous for passage any street, sidewalk, alley, navigable body or other
public way or place. (Ord. 2017-009, 10-11-2017)
4-2-3: GENERAL ENFORCEMENT:
Any nuisance declared by statute, this chapter or other provisions of this Code
or ordinances of the Village shall be enforceable under the provisions of this
chapter as if enumerated specifically herein. (Ord. 2017-009, 10-11-2017)
4-2-4: ENUMERATION NOT EXCLUSIVE:
Nuisances enumerated in this chapter shall not be deemed exclusive, but are in
addition to and shall be construed in conjunction with any other nuisances
enumerated in statutes or other provisions of this Code or ordinances of the
Village. (Ord. 2017-009, 10-11-2017)
4-2-5: DUTY OF VILLAGE OFFICERS TO INVESTIGATE; POWER OF ENTRY:
   A.   Investigation: For the purpose of discovering nuisances, it shall be
the duty of the police and other appropriate Village officers to investigate,
confirm and report any nuisances coming to their attention.
   B.   Entry: In order to investigate, confirm and report nuisances, said
officers shall, upon proper identification, be permitted at any reasonable hour
and in a reasonable manner, to visit and enter into or upon any premises or
property within the Village to make an examination thereof, if they shall have
reasonable grounds to believe that a nuisance exists. (Ord. 2017-009, 10-11-
2017)
4-2-6: NOTICE TO PROPER OFFICIALS:
Whenever any nuisance shall be reported to or investigated and determined by
police or other Village officers, notice shall be given to the owner or person
in control of the property or premises involved, and to the appropriate Village
officials whose functions include the abatement of such nuisances. (Ord. 2017-
009, 10-11-2017)
4-2-7: NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE:
   A.   Written Notice; Service: Whenever police or other Village officer
determines that a nuisance exists on any private property or premises, the
proper Village official shall cause a written notice to be served personally
upon the owner or person in control of the property or premises who is causing,
permitting or maintaining such nuisance, which notice shall give the person
served seven (7) days from the date of service of the notice to abate the
nuisance. Such notice shall be by means of personal service of a copy of the
complaint. Personal service shall be by any authorized inspector designated by
the Village President or by any police officer of the Police Department or any
person authorized by law to make personal service.
   B.   Contents Of Notice: Such notice shall fairly apprise such person of the
nature of the nuisance, his duty to abate or remove the nuisance within the
time provided therein, the penalty for failure to abate the same, and shall
state that if said nuisance is abated by the Village, liability for necessary
expenses to be incurred shall accrue as provided in section
4-2-12 of this chapter. (Ord. 2017-009, 10-11-2017)
4-2-8: DUTY TO ABATE; TIME LIMITS:
It is hereby declared the duty of any person determined to have created,
caused, erected, maintained or permitted a nuisance to exist within the Village
to discontinue and abate such nuisance within seven (7) days, or such other
time period as may be specified in the notice, from the time he receives
written notice thereof. (Ord. 2017-009, 10-11-2017)
4-2-9: FAILURE TO ABATE; SEPARATE AND RECURRING OFFENSE:
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person to neglect,
refuse or otherwise fail to remove or abate any nuisance after expiration of
the seven (7) days or other specified time period provided by notice thereof;
and each twenty four (24) hours, or fraction thereof, during which such
nuisance continues or exists shall be deemed a separate offense punishable by
first fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00), after twenty four (24) hours the
second fine issued will be fifty dollars ($50.00), and after another twenty
four (24) hours the fine will be seventy five dollars ($75.00). (Ord. 2017-009,
10-11-2017)
4-2-10: ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE:
Whenever any nuisance is not abated by the owner, lessee or person in control
of the premises or property affected within the time provided by notice, the
proper Village officer shall cause the abatement or removal of such nuisance.
(Ord. 2017-009, 10-11-2017)
4-2-11: SUMMARY ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE; EMERGENCY; PUBLIC PROPERTY:
Whenever any nuisance: a) constitutes or is deemed to be an imminent or
immediate danger to the public health or safety; or b) exists on public
property, the proper Village officer shall cause such nuisance to be summarily
and immediately abated and removed, regardless of any seven (7) day or other
time period specified by notice to the person responsible therefor; provided,
however, that in item a of this section, such officer shall have first applied
for and obtained the written permission of the Village President for such
summary abatement. (Ord. 2017-009, 10-11-2017)
4-2-12: COSTS OF ABATEMENT; DEBT OF OWNER:
   A.   Lien On Real Property: Any costs or expenses of abatement reasonably
incurred by the Village pursuant to the provisions of sections
4-2-10 and
4-2-11 of this chapter shall be deemed a debt to the Village by the owner,
lessee or person in control of premises upon which such nuisance existed;
provided, that where specially provided in this Code or by statute, such costs
and expenses shall become a lien upon the real estate affected, superior to all
other liens and encumbrances, except tax liens.
   B.   Enforcement: It shall be the duty of the Village Attorney to enforce by
civil action any and all such debts or liens as provided in subsection A of
this section. (Ord. 2017-009, 10-11-2017)
4-2-13: PENALTY:
Whenever in this chapter any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be
unlawful or a nuisance, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the
failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, when no specific penalty is
provided therefor, any person violating such provision shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to a penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2017-009, 10-11-2017)
CHAPTER 3
GRASS AND WEEDS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Permissible Height
4-3-2: Garbage And Rubbish Prohibited
4-3-3: Failure To Abate Nuisance
4-3-1: PERMISSIBLE HEIGHT:
   A.   Duty Of Owner To Cut: Every owner of real estate within the village
shall cut the weeds and grass on his property at all times as may be necessary
so that the weeds and grass shall not exceed ten inches (10") in height. It
shall be unlawful for any owner to refuse or neglect to cut the weeds and grass
when they reach a height in excess of ten inches (10").
   B.   Failure Of Owner To Cut; Subsequent Remedies: In such circumstances
where an owner of real estate within the village fails to cut the weeds and
grass on his property at all times as necessary so that the weeds and grass
shall not exceed ten inches (10") in height pursuant to subsection A of this
section resulting in abatement of the nuisance pursuant to section
4-2-10 of this title, the village may thereafter abate the nuisance on the
particular property where a nuisance has already been abated when weeds and
grass exceed seven inches (7") in height. (Ord. 2012-006, 8-22-2012)
4-3-2: GARBAGE AND RUBBISH PROHIBITED:
Every owner or occupant of real estate within the village shall keep the same
free from trash, rubbish, garbage and refuse. It shall be unlawful for an owner
or occupant to permit said trash, rubbish, garbage and refuse to accumulate or
be on any real estate within the village. (Ord., 7-11-1984)
4-3-3: FAILURE TO ABATE NUISANCE:
If an owner or occupant fails or refuses to abate the nuisances described in
this chapter, the village may cause the same to be abated in the manner and
pursuant to the procedure set out in chapter 2 of this title. (Ord., 7-11-1984;
amd. 1997 Code)
CHAPTER 4
ABANDONED RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY 1
SECTION:
4-4-1: Nuisance Declared
4-4-2: Abatement Procedures
4-4-3: Abandoned Property Defined
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 8, chapter 2 of this Code.
4-4-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
It shall be evidence of a nuisance violation if the Village has made good faith
efforts to contact the owner, occupant, mortgagee, lessee and all other persons
having an interest in abandoned property as shown by the grantor or grantee
indices or other records maintained by the Sangamon County Clerk and ex officio
Recorder of Deeds, or, if known, any agent of any interested party, and no
contact has been made. (Ord. 2015-001, 4-22-2015)
4-4-2: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
Upon the Zoning Administrator finding a property to be abandoned as defined in
section
4-4-3 of this chapter, the procedures to abate a nuisance defined in section
4-2-10 of this title shall be applicable. (Ord. 2015-001, 4-22-2015)
4-4-3: ABANDONED PROPERTY DEFINED:
Abandoned property shall mean any permanent residential dwelling unit,
including detached single-family structures, and townhouses, condominium units
and multi-family rental apartments covering the entire property, and
manufactured homes treated under Illinois law as real estate and not as
personal property, commercial, and manufacturing, that has been unoccupied by
any lawful occupant or occupants for at least ninety (90) days. (Ord. 2015-001,
4-22-2015)
CHAPTER 5
KEY LOCK BOX SYSTEM
SECTION:
4-5-1: Lock Box Required
4-5-2: Time For Installation
4-5-3: Type Of System; Regulations
4-5-4: Storage Of Key
4-5-5: Violation; Penalty
4-5-1: LOCK BOX REQUIRED:
The following types of structures shall, from and after the effective date
hereof, have installed and at all times maintained, a key lock box at or near
the main entrance of the structure or at such other location as may be
designated by the chief of the Divernon fire protection district fire
department: (Ord. 2007-03, 7-11-2007)
   A.   Commercial or industrial structures which have automatic fire alarm or
fire suppression systems or which are secured in a manner which may restrict
entry during an emergency when access by the Divernon fire protection district
fire department is required. (Ord. 2007-03, 7-11-2007; amd. per correspondence
dated 3-8-2013)
   B.   Multi-family residential structures which have restricted access
through locked doors with a common access corridor to living units within the
structure.
   C.   Governmental structures, nursing care or rehabilitation living
facilities, and institutional living facilities which are not staffed on a
twenty four (24) hour per day basis and afford accessibility to all areas of
such structures on a continuous basis; provided, that any portions of such
facilities which are not accessible on a continuous basis shall have a key lock
box installed.
   D.   Schools, churches, and other structures in which assemblies occur.
(Ord. 2007-03, 7-11-2007)
4-5-2: TIME FOR INSTALLATION:
This chapter and the requirements set forth herein will take effect and be
applicable according to the following: All structures built or constructed
following the effective date hereof and which are required to have a key lock
box installed and maintained on the structure shall have same installed prior
to the occupancy of the structure. (Ord. 2007-03, 7-11-2007)
4-5-3: TYPE OF SYSTEM; REGULATIONS:
The chief of the Divernon fire protection district fire department will
designate the type of key lock box system to be used within the village and
will promulgate appropriate regulations specifying such systems, the manner of
their location, installation, use, and maintenance following installation.
(Ord. 2007-03, 7-11-2007)
4-5-4: STORAGE OF KEY:
From and after the installation of the key lock box on a structure, the owner
or occupant of the structure shall store a key to the structure which will
allow access to the structure by the Divernon fire protection district fire
department in response to a fire alarm or other emergency at the structure.
(Ord. 2007-03, 7-11-2007; amd. per correspondence dated 3-8-2013)
4-5-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who fails to comply with the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a petty offense and may be fined not more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00), with each day that such offense continues to constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 2007-03, 7-11-2007)
CHAPTER 6
SWIMMING POOLS AND TRAMPOLINES 1
(Rep. by Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-6-1 of this Code.
CHAPTER 7
UNCOMPLETED BUILDINGS
SECTION:
4-7-1: Nuisance Declared
4-7-2: Abatement Procedures
4-7-3: Uncompleted Buildings Defined
4-7-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
It shall be evidence of a nuisance violation if the Village has made good faith
efforts to contact the owner, occupant, mortgagee, lessee and all other persons
having an interest in uncompleted buildings as shown by the grantor or grantee
indices or other records maintained by the Sangamon County Clerk and ex officio
Recorder of Deeds, or, if known, any agent of any interested party, and no
contact has been made. (Ord. 2015-001, 4-22-2015)
4-7-2: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
Upon the Zoning Administrator finding that property contains an uncompleted
building as defined in section
4-7-3 of this chapter, the procedures to abate a nuisance defined in section
4-2-10 of this title shall be applicable. (Ord. 2015-001, 4-22-2015)
4-7-3: UNCOMPLETED BUILDINGS DEFINED:
Uncompleted building means any building or manmade structure that is
incomplete, unfinished, or otherwise remains uncompleted for at least ninety
(90) days during any period in which no valid building permit or other
authorization provides approval for the building or structure to exist in
incomplete, unfinished, or otherwise uncompleted condition.
(Ord. 2015-001, 4-22-2015)
CHAPTER 8
RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL YARD WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL SYSTEM
SECTION:
4-8-1: Establishment Of System
4-8-2: Yard And Tree Waste Disposal Program
4-8-3: Definitions
4-8-4: Disposal Fees
4-8-5: Yard Waste Collection
4-8-6: Village Burn Pile Hours Of Operation
4-8-7: Burn Pile Regulations
4-8-8: Signage
4-8-9: Burning
4-8-10:    Additional Regulations Pertaining To Commercial Operators
4-8-11:    Penalty
4-8-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF SYSTEM:
   The Village hereby establishes a yard and tree waste collection and disposal
system for the public benefit of the residents within the municipal boundaries
of the Village of Divernon.
(Ord. 2024-002, 2-14-2024)
4-8-2: YARD AND TREE WASTE DISPOSAL PROGRAM:
   The Village Yard and Tree Waste program shall refer to collection and
disposal of residential yard waste and the collection of tree limbs and
branches and activities necessary to keep streets and alleyways clear of yard
waste and debris. The Village may contract for the periodic collection of tree
limbs and branches and may provide a self-service disposal site. The cost of
collection of tree limbs and branches, as set forth herein, shall be covered by
the Yard Waste Disposal Service Charge set forth in Section
4-8-4. The Yard Waste Disposal Program may also include the annual Village
clean-up and other green/recycling projects as may be approved by the corporate
authorities of the Village.
(Ord. 2024-002, 2-14-2024)
4-8-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
BURN PILE: A Village-owned and operated facility for disposing of authorized
tree waste by burning. The Burn Pile shall be located at the Village Sewer
Treatment Plant.
COMMERCIAL OPERATOR: Any person, firm or corporation which for a consideration,
generates or disposes of authorized tree waste, including but not limited to
persons in the businesses of landscaping, tree removal, tree surgery and
general hauling.
LIMBS AND BRANCHES: Shrubbery, brush, or tree trimmings less than four feet
(4') in length and three inches (3") in diameter.
RESIDENTIAL YARD WASTE: Household generated yard material, including without
limitation, grass clippings, garden debris, and leaves.
YARD WASTE CONTAINER: Households must provide their own separate paper or
compostable yard wastepaper bags. Yard waste containers must be prominently
marked so that they may be identified by a passing truck and must be placed at
the curb. Containers cannot exceed fifty (50) pounds in weight.
(Ord. 2024-002, 2-14-2024)
4-8-4: DISPOSAL FEES:
   The Village may, at its own discretion, establish disposal fees for the
services described in this Chapter. Fees shall be paid at the Village Hall and
may include per container fees for authorized Yard Waste, fees for un-
authorized Yard Waste collected by the Village or Contractor, and additional
surcharges for waste determined by the Village to be outside the authorized
definitions set in
4-8-3. A schedule of fees shall be available to Village residents upon
adoption.
(Ord. 2024-002, 2-14-2024)
4-8-5: YARD WASTE COLLECTION:
   A.   Collection of Yard Waste and Limbs and Branches will be for each
residential dwelling unit and shall be performed by the Village or its
contractor. Collection shall occur at the discretion of the Village.
   B.   Containers for Yard Waste may be a paper or other biodegradable bags
with a capacity not to exceed thirty (30) gallons.
   C.   The Village may, at its own discretion, establish a maximum size for a
Yard Waste pile placed for collection.
   D.   The Village or its contractor shall pick up containers at curbsides.
For curbside pickup, all containers shall be placed near the street in front of
the residential unit or in an alley adjacent to the property. It shall be the
responsibility of each resident to see the container are placed curbside or as
close as practical to collection routes. Curbside refers to that portion of the
right-of-way adjacent to paved or traveled roadways (including alleys).
   E.   Nothing herein shall limit residents of the Village from disposing Yard
Waste at their own expense.
   F.   The Village may elect to provide additional Limb and Branch collection
services in the event of weather or other natural events.
   G.   Branches and Limbs that fall outside the authorized definition in
4-8-3 may incur a fine as outlined in
4-8-11 at the discretion of the Village, Village Representative, or Employee.
(Ord. 2024-002, 2-14-2024)
4-8-6: VILLAGE BURN PILE HOURS OF OPERATION:
   The days and hours of operation of the Burn Pile shall be determined by the
Village. However, the Village Manager, Manager of Public Utilities, or the
Manager of Public Works may in their sole discretion open or close the Burn
Pile at any time and for any reason and without notice.
(Ord. 2024-002, 2-14-2024)
4-8-7: BURN PILE REGULATIONS:
   The following regulations shall govern the Burn Pile:
   A.   No person shall deposit any materials other than authorized yard or
tree waste at the Burn Pile.
   B.   All authorized tree waste deposited at the Burn Pile shall be placed
inside the areas specifically identified by signage erected by the Village. No
person shall deposit any materials at the Burn Pile outside the designated
areas.
   C.   Residents of the Village may dispose of authorized Yard Waste and Limbs
and Branches at no charge.
   D.   Commercial Operators may not deposit any limbs, branches, or waste at
the Burn Pile.
   E.   Residents depositing authorized limbs, branches, or yard waste shall
provide evidence of residency within the Village's corporate limits upon
request.
   F.   No person shall be found upon nor deposit any materials in the Burn
Pile at times other than the hours set forth in Section
4-8-6. Any person violating this rule shall be deemed and treated as a
trespasser.
(Ord. 2024-002, 2-14-2024)
4-8-8: SIGNAGE:
   The Village Manager shall cause signage to be erected at the Burn Pile
indicating:
   A.   The days and hours of operation; and
   B.   A summary of the rules as set forth in
4-8-7.
(Ord. 2024-002, 2-14-2024)
4-8-9: BURNING:
   From time to time, and in accordance with 415 ILCS 5/9(c), and applicable
federal and Illinois Environmental Protection Agency regulations, the Manager
of Utilities or the Superintendent of Public Works shall arrange for the
burning of materials deposited in the Burn Pile.
(Ord. 2024-002, 2-14-2024)
4-8-10: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO COMMERCIAL OPERATORS:
   All tree waste generated or collected by a Commercial Operator shall be
removed from the corporate limits of the Village and shall be disposed of by
the Commercial Operator.
(Ord. 2024-002, 2-14-2024)
4-8-11: PENALTY;
   A.   Any person who violates any provision of this Chapter shall be subject
to a monetary fine not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) but not to exceed
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each and every day that a violation
occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   In addition to the penalty as prescribed in division (A) of this
Section, the Village may direct the Village attorney to commence an action in
the Circuit Court of the Seventh Judicial Circuit, Sangamon County, Illinois,
to abate the nuisance conditions and for fines as set forth in Ill. Rev. Stat.
§ 3-4-6 to abate a nuisance created by violation of
4-8-5 or
4-8-7 of this Chapter and is in addition to, not in lieu of, any costs of
abatement performed by the Village and attorneys' fees incurred by the Village
in enforcing the fine.
(Ord. 2024-002, 2-14-2024)
CHAPTER 9
PUBLIC CAMPING WITHIN VILLAGE BOUNDARIES AND
OTHER ACTIONS IN CONNECTION THEREWITH
SECTION:
4-9-1: Public Camping As A Nuisance
4-9-2: Regulation Of Public Camping Necessary To Promote Public Health
4-9-3: Public Camping Not Intended Use Of Public Property
4-9-4: Definitions
4-9-5: Public Camping Prohibited
4-9-6: Exceptions To Prohibition
4-9-7: Removal Of Campsite
4-9-8: Disposition And Release Of Personal Property
4-9-9: Penalty; Mitigation
4-9-1: PUBLIC CAMPING AS A NUISANCE:
   Public Camping, as the term is defined herein, is hereby declared to be a
nuisance within the Village of Divernon for the reasons identified in Ordinance
2024-006.
(Ord. 2024-006, 8-28-2024)
4-9-2: REGULATION OF PUBLIC CAMPING NECESSARY TO PROMOTE PUBLIC HEALTH:
   In an effort to address the public health concerns identified above, the
Village President and the Board of Trustees hereby declare it necessary or
expedient for the promotion of health or the suppression of diseases, to
regulate Public Camping, as that term is defined herein, within the Village's
corporate limits.
(Ord. 2024-006, 8-28-2024)
4-9-3: PUBLIC CAMPING NOT INTENDED USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   Except for those parcels of property specifically designated by the Village
in any subsequent ordinance, the Village hereby declares that none of its
property is permitted nor intended to be used for Public Camping, as the term
is defined herein.
(Ord. 2024-006, 8-28-2024)
4-9-4: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions apply to this chapter:
BEDDING: A sleeping bag, or any other material, used for bedding purposes.
CAMPSITE: Any physical space that is not within an established structure, where
Bedding or any stove or fire is placed, established or maintained for the
purpose of maintaining a temporary place to live, whether or not such place
incorporates the use of any tent, lean-to, shack or any other structure, or any
vehicle or part thereof.
EXEMPT PERSONAL PROPERTY: Items which would otherwise constitute Personal
Property under the terms of this chapter, but which (i) has no apparent utility
or monetary value; (ii) Personal Property which is unsanitary to store or
otherwise maintain; (iii) any weapon possessed illegally; (iv) drug
paraphernalia; (v) items appearing to be stolen or otherwise appearing to be
evidence of a crime; (vi) items which the person cannot demonstrate the
requisite lawful authority to possess; and, (vii) any items of food which can
reasonably be expected to spoil or otherwise perish within the next thirty (30)
days.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Any item reasonably recognizable as belonging to a person
and having apparent utility or monetary value, except for Exempt Personal
Property.
PUBLIC CAMPING: To cause or participate in the establishment of, or the act of
remaining in or at, a Campsite.
(Ord. 2024-006, 8-28-2024)
4-9-5: PUBLIC CAMPING PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in Public Camping, on a
public sidewalk, street, alley, lane, other public right-of-way, park, bench,
or any other publicly-owned property, nor on or under any bridge or viaduct, at
any time.
   B.   No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in Public Camping, in any
pedestrian or vehicular entrance to public or private property abutting a
public right-of-way.
   C.   No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in Public Camping, on any
real property owned or otherwise maintained by the Village of Divernon.
   D.   No person may park a vehicle overnight within the Village of Divernon
for the purpose of sleeping or otherwise engaging in Public Camping in said
vehicle.
   E.   For the purposes of this section, the act of parking or leaving a
vehicle parked for two (2) consecutive hours, and/or remaining within a public
vehicle on any property under the jurisdiction of the Village for the purpose
of Public Camping, for two (2) consecutive hours without permission from the
Village President and Board of Trustees, between the hours of midnight and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M., shall be considered a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-006, 8-28-2024)
4-9-6: EXCEPTIONS TO PROHIBITION:
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, it shall not be a violation to engage in
Public Camping when done (i) in a manner specifically authorized by this Code;
(ii) after a formal declaration of the Village of Divernon in emergency
circumstances; or, (iii) upon resolution of the Village President and Board of
Trustees, the same may exempt a special event from the prohibitions of this
section, if the Village President and Board of Trustees finds such exemption to
be in the public interest and consistent with the goals and objectives of the
Village President and Board of Trustees, and with such conditions imposed as
the Village President and Board of Trustees deems necessary. Any conditions
imposed will include a condition requiring that the applicant provide evidence
of adequate insurance coverage and agree to indemnify the Village of Divernon
for any liability, damage or expense incurred by the Village as a result of the
activities of the applicant. Any findings by the Village President and Board of
Trustees shall specify the exact dates and location covered by the exemption.
(Ord. 2024-006, 8-28-2024)
4-9-7: REMOVAL OF CAMPSITE:
   Removal of a Campsite in violation of this chapter may occur under the
following circumstances:
   A.   Prior to removing a Campsite, the Village of Divernon shall post a
notice, twenty four (24) hours in advance of the removal, unless immediate
removal of the Campsite is deemed to be necessary for one of the reasons in
subsections A1 through A4, below. If such immediate removal is undertaken, the
basis for causing the immediate removal of such Campsite should be adequately
documented by the appropriate person(s).
      1.   Immediate removal of the Campsite is necessary to maintain access to
a property;
      2.   Immediate removal of the Campsite is necessary to maintain the
sanitary condition of a property;
      3.   Immediate removal of the Campsite is necessary because the Campsite
is an obstruction to any public right-of-way; or
      4.   Immediate removal of the Campsite is necessary because the Campsite
poses a risk to the health and safety of the Village and its residents.
   B.   Upon any action pursuant to subsection A, above, the person causing
such action to be taken shall inform an appropriate agency delivering social
services to homeless individuals in the Village of Divernon, of the location of
the Campsite and the persons found to be in violation of this chapter, so said
agency may determine whether or not it would be appropriate to offer its
services to those persons.
   C.   If a twenty four (24) hour notice has been posted, and the twenty four
(24) hour notice period has passed, then the Campsite, as well as all Personal
Property thereon, shall be removed by the appropriate person(s) acting on
behalf of the Village of Divernon.
   D.   No portion of this Section shall be construed to prohibit any person
found to be engaging in Public Camping from removing their Personal Property
from the Campsite; however, such Personal Property that constitutes Exempt
Personal Property and which a reasonably prudent law enforcement officer,
exercising the applicable constitutional standard, would conclude that said
Exempt Personal Property constitutes items appearing to be stolen or otherwise
appearing to be evidence of a crime, and/or items which the person cannot
demonstrate the requisite lawful authority to possess, may be retained and
stored as evidence.
(Ord. 2024-006, 8-28-2024)
4-9-8: DISPOSITION AND RELEASE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY:
   A.   All Personal Property removed from any Campsite which is not Exempt
Personal Property shall be stored by the appropriate law enforcement agency of
the Village of Divernon, for a minimum of thirty (30) days, during which time
it shall be reasonably available for and released to an individual confirming
ownership.
   B.   All Exempt Personal Property may be disposed of or retained as evidence
by the appropriate law enforcement agency of the Village of Divernon.
(Ord. 2024-006, 8-28-2024)
4-9-9: PENALTY; MITIGATION:
   A.   The penalty for any person's first violation of this chapter within a
rolling twenty-four (24) month period shall be seventy five dollars ($75.00).
   B.   The penalty for any person's second violation of this chapter within a
rolling twenty-four (24) month period shall be one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00).
   C.   The penalty for any person's third violation of this chapter within a
rolling twenty-four (24) month period shall be three hundred fifty dollars
($350.00).
   D.   The penalty for any person's fourth violation of this chapter within a
rolling twenty-four (24) month period shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   E.   The penalty for any person's fifth violation of this chapter within a
rolling twenty-four (24) month period shall be seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00).
   F.   The penalty for any person's sixth or subsequent violation of this
chapter within a rolling twenty-four (24) month period may be a monetary
penalty of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) or incarceration for a period
not exceeding the maximum time allowed pursuant to Section 1-2-9 of the
Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/1-2-9).
   G.   As a substitute for any monetary penalty assessed pursuant to
subsections A through F, above, and if consented to by the Village of Divernon,
the penalty assessed to any person found in violation of this chapter may be
that said person must engage in public service by cleaning the rights-of-way
and other public facilities of the Village for an amount of time that, if the
person found to have violated this chapter was being paid the minimum wage
under Illinois law, the amount paid for that person's labors would have been
equal to the monetary penalty assessed under this chapter.
   H.   The Village of Divernon is hereby empowered to exercise all powers
afforded to it, at law or in equity, to collect any fines assessed against a
person pursuant to this chapter, including but not limited to seeking
incarceration of said person for a period of time that conforms with Section 1-
2-9 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/1-2-9).
   I.   In the imposition of any penalty pursuant to this Section, the penalty
shall be mitigated by whether or not the person immediately removed all
Personal Property and litter, including but not limited to bottles, cans, and
garbage, from the Campsite after the person was informed that the person was in
violation of this chapter.
   J.   A separate offense of this chapter shall be deemed committed on each
day on which a violation occurs or continues.
   K.   In addition to any other remedy provided by law or this chapter, any
person found in violation of this section may be immediately removed from the
premises where the Campsite is located.
(Ord. 2024-006, 8-28-2024)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Department Membership
5-1-2: Bond Of Officers
5-1-3: General Powers And Duties
5-1-4: Part Time Police Officers
5-1-1: DEPARTMENT MEMBERSHIP:
The police department shall consist of a chief, who shall have supervision over
the department, and such other officers and members as may be provided from
time to time by the president and board of trustees. All members of the police
department shall be conservators of the peace with the duties and powers
assigned to such conservators by statute 1  and subject to conditions of
employment and codes of conduct established by the village board of trustees.
(1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-25.
5-1-2: BOND OF OFFICERS:
   The chief of police and all other officers created under section
5-1-1 of this chapter shall execute a bond to the village in the penal sum of
ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), with good and sufficient securities to be
approved by the president and board of trustees, conditioned for the faithful
performance of the duties of his office 2 . (1997 Code)
 
Notes
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-30.
5-1-3: GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Powers: In addition to the power and authority given to the chief of
police under the statutes of this state, he shall see that all ordinances of
the village are enforced and that all offenders are properly reported to some
proper tribunal for punishment, and he shall have supervision over all other
officers and special police as may, from time to time, be appointed.
   B.   Attend Meetings: The chief of police shall attend all meetings at the
request of the president and board of trustees, execute all of its orders and
all other warrants or other legal processes required to be executed by him
under any ordinance of the village.
   C.   Records: The chief of police shall keep a record of all persons
arrested or committed, showing the time and place of each arrest, the offense
charged, and the magistrate before whom such person was tried, the disposition
of such case, amount of fine imposed, if any, and the amount collected.
   D.   Memorandum Book: The chief of police, and each officer of the
department, shall always have with him a memorandum book in which he shall
enter the names of persons by him taken in charge, together with the names of
witnesses which may be necessary in the successful prosecution of such persons,
and also all matters which may be important in the trial of a cause. (1997
Code)
5-1-4: PART TIME POLICE OFFICERS:
   A.   Employment: The village may employ part time police officers from time
to time as they deem necessary.
   B.   Duties And Training: A part time police officer shall have all the
responsibilities of a full time police officer and such specific duties as
delineated in the general orders of the village police department, but the
number of hours a part time officer may work within a calendar year is
restricted. Part time police officers shall not be assigned to supervise or
direct full time police officers. Part time police officers shall be trained in
accordance with the Illinois police training act 1  and the rules and
requirements of the ILETSB.
   C.   Hiring Standards: Any person employed as a part time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      1.   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties.
      2.   Be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
      3.   Pass a medical examination.
      4.   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate.
      5.   Possess a valid state of Illinois driver's license.
      6.   Possess no prior felony convictions.
      7.   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   D.   Discipline: Part time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the chief of police. Part time police officers serve at the
discretion of the village authorities, shall not have any property rights in
said employment, and may be removed by the village authorities at any time.
Part time police officers shall comply with all applicable rules and general
orders issued by the police department. (Ord. 2012-005, 6-27-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 2
ANIMALS AND ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definitions
5-2-2: Animal Control Officer
5-2-3: Inoculation Requirements
5-2-4: Restraint Of Dogs And Other Animals
5-2-5: Animals As Nuisances; Noise Restricted
5-2-6: Keeping Animals; Offensive Premises
5-2-7: Biting Or Attacking By Animals
5-2-8: Confinement; Warning Of Dangerous Animals
5-2-9: Killing Or Attacking Animals
5-2-10: Cruelty To Animals
5-2-11: Cockfighting, Dogfighting
5-2-12: Dead Animals; Disposal
5-2-13: Injured Animals Or Animals Found Dead On Public Ways
5-2-14: Interference With Enforcement
5-2-15: Impoundment Of Animals
5-2-16: Enforcement And Penalty
5-2-17: Requirement For Disposal
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
ANIMAL: Includes all animals, reptiles, birds or fish unless the section limits
the application to a particular species of animal.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: An employee of the board of trustees whose duty it is
to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
AT LARGE: Any animal not under "restraint" as defined herein.
CAT: All animals, regardless of sex, of the feline species.
CHAPTER: The term chapter is often used in this document, and it shall be
construed to mean this ordinance.
DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMAL: Any animal: a) which shall at any time have bitten
any human being; or b) whom the owner or keeper should reasonably know to have
dangerous propensities and to pose a threat to the public; or c) which has been
or is trained to attack persons or animals on command.
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE: The department of agriculture of the state of
Illinois.
DOG: All animals, regardless of sex, of the canine species.
INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES: The injection, subcutaneously or otherwise, as
approved by the department of agriculture of canine antirabic vaccine approved
by said department.
LIVESTOCK: Domestic or farm animals, such as cows, cattle, horses, ponies,
camels, sheep, chimpanzees, monkeys, swine, pigs, boar, potbelly pigs, goats,
donkeys, elk, mules, asses, llamas, alpacas, buffalo, oxen, bears, alligators,
fowl, peacocks, geese, ducks, turkeys, rodents (except hamsters, guinea pigs,
mice, and other rodents commonly kept as pets) or chickens, roosters and hens,
or any other animal so designated by the village board from time to time as
they so deem.
OWNER OR KEEPER: A person having a right of property in an animal, who keeps or
harbors such animal, who cares for or who acts as its custodian, or who
knowingly permits an animal to remain on or about any premises occupied by such
person.
POUND: The Sangamon County pound or other facility approved by the board of
trustees for the impoundment of animals.
PUBLIC ENTRANCE: The entranceway of a residence or other building closest to
the public street or sidewalk or one which would be reasonably perceived by the
public to be the entrance to the dwelling available for public use.
RESTRAINT: An animal is under restraint if:
   A.   Attached to a leash held by a responsible person; or
   B.   Under the effective voice control of a responsible person; or
   C.   Attached to a structure or fixture in such a manner that it is unable
to reach beyond the limits of the owner's or keeper's property and is unable to
reach or molest servicepersons or casual visitors to the owner's or keeper's
property using the public entrance or persons placing mail in the mailbox or
delivering newspapers at the request of the owners; or
   D.   Enclosed in a fenced yard from which it is unable to escape without
assistance from a person.
WORKING DAY: Any day when the office or public entity referred to was open for
the transaction of business. (Ord., 5-22-1985; amd. Ord. 2014-004, 5-14-2014,
eff. 6-1-2014)
5-2-2: ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
   A.   Office Established: There is hereby established an animal control
officer to be subordinate to the village president.
   B.   Duties: Without limiting those powers and duties prescribed by law and
ordinance, the animal control officer shall:
      1.   Exercise the power and perform the duties as set forth by the board
of trustees.
      2.   Impound animals pursuant to the provisions of this chapter at the
Sangamon County animal pound or other facility approved by the board of
trustees. (Ord., 5-22-1985)
5-2-3: INOCULATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Inoculation Required; Nametag Affixed To Collar: Each calendar year, or
at such intervals as may hereafter be promulgated by the department of
agriculture, every owner or keeper of any dog which is four (4) months of age
or older shall cause such dog to be inoculated against rabies. Such owner or
keeper or such dog shall cause a serially numbered tag evidencing such
inoculation to be attached to a collar or harness worn by the dog at all times.
Numbered tag to be registered with the village.
   B.   Inoculation Performed By Licensed Veterinarian; Issuance Of
Certificate:
      1.   Licensed Veterinarian; Certificate: The inoculation of dogs required
by this chapter shall be performed by a veterinarian, duly licensed to practice
in this state or in the state where the inoculation occurred. Upon performing
such inoculation, such veterinarian shall issue to the owner or keeper a
certificate of such fact.
      2.   Metal Tag: Such owner or keeper is responsible for obtaining
annually from the clerk of Sangamon County a metallic tag suitable for
attaching to the collar or harness of such dog, which tag shall also certify to
the fact of inoculation against rabies. The tag shall be in such form as shall
be determined by the department of agriculture and adopted for use by the clerk
of Sangamon County.
   C.   Duration Of Inoculation: The inoculation performed under the provisions
of subsection A of this section shall be effective until the expiration of one
year after the vaccination was performed or the expiration of such period of
time as may be promulgated by the department of agriculture.
   D.   Exhibition Of Certificate Upon Request: At any reasonable time, upon
request of any member of the police department of the village or animal control
officer, the owner or keeper of any dog or cat shall exhibit any current, valid
certificate required under the provisions of this chapter, certifying the
inoculation against rabies of any dog or cat owned or kept by him. (Ord., 5-22-
1985)
5-2-4: RESTRAINT OF DOGS AND OTHER ANIMALS:
   A.   Dogs: The owner or keeper of a dog shall keep such dog under restraint
at all times and shall not permit such animal to be at large.
   B.   Other Animals: It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any horses,
cattle, swine, sheep, chickens, ducks, geese or other animal or fowl, except as
otherwise provided by this code, to be at large anywhere within the village.
The herding of any animals or fowl or the tethering of animals for grazing
purposes shall be deemed to be at large. (Ord., 5-22-1985; amd. 1997 Code)
   C.   Livestock: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor any
livestock as listed in the definition of "livestock". (Ord. 2014-004, 5-14-
2014, eff. 6-1-2014)
   D.   Penalty: Any person convicted of violating this section shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 5-22-1985; amd. 1997 Code; Ord. 2014-004, 5-14-2014,
eff. 6-1-2014)
5-2-5: ANIMALS AS NUISANCES; NOISE RESTRICTED:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper to
suffer or permit any such animal, by barking, howling, crying or other
distressing or loud or unusual noise, to disturb the peace or quiet of any
place, neighborhood, family or person in the village. The disturbing of said
neighborhood or persons by any such animal is hereby declared to be a nuisance,
and it shall be unlawful for any such person to suffer or permit any such
nuisance to exist.
   B.   Time Restrictions: In addition to the general restrictions of
subsection A of this section, for the purpose of this section, an owner or
keeper is in violation of this section if he permits a dog to bark in a
substantially continuous manner between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. for a period of more than fifteen (15) minutes,
or allows such animal to bark for numerous periods of time, regardless of
duration, so as to disturb the quiet of the neighborhood or of particular
neighbors.
   C.   Repeat Offenders; Petition To Destroy: In case any animal shall
repeatedly disturb the peace or quiet of any place or neighborhood or become a
nuisance as defined in this chapter, the village may petition the circuit court
of Sangamon County for an order to destroy said animal. (Ord., 5-22-1985)
5-2-6: KEEPING ANIMALS; OFFENSIVE PREMISES:
Any pen, stable or place in which animals are housed or kept which is
unreasonably offensive to persons residing in the vicinity of the same, due to
associated debris or odors, or to persons passing along any street or alley
near the same, or which constitute a hazard to the health of persons residing
nearby, is hereby declared to be unlawful and a nuisance. (Ord., 5-22-1985)
5-2-7: BITING OR ATTACKING BY ANIMALS:
It is unlawful for any owner or keeper of an animal to suffer, permit or fail
to prevent an animal from biting or attacking a person or another animal
resulting in injury to the person or animal attacked; provided, that such an
attack upon a person who is or reasonably appears to be in the commission of an
act made punishable under the criminal code of the state of Illinois 1 , is not
prohibited if the animal is acting in the defense of the owner or keeper or his
family or premises, and the animal remains on his premises. For purposes of
this section, it is not necessary that the person bitten or attacked be
arrested or convicted of a criminal offense. (Ord., 5-22-1985)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
5-2-8: CONFINEMENT; WARNING OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
No person shall own, keep or harbor within the village an animal known to be
dangerous or vicious, unless such person shall keep such animal safely and
securely confined so as to protect from injury any child or other person who
may come upon the premises in the vicinity where such animal may be located.
Adequate warning by signs, or otherwise, shall be given to all persons coming
upon the premises in the vicinity of any such vicious or dangerous animal.
(Ord., 5-22-1985)
5-2-9: KILLING OR ATTACKING ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to kill or wound or attempt to kill or
wound by the use of firearms, slingshot, bow and arrow, BB gun, air rifle or
any other dangerous weapon, any animal within the village limits; provided,
that this section shall not prohibit a person from defending himself or another
from attack by an animal. Police may use weapons to destroy animals which are
seriously injured to avoid unnecessary suffering or in self-defense or defense
of others. (Ord., 5-22-1985)
5-2-10: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit acts of cruelty to animals. The
following acts shall be deemed to be examples of cruelty to animals and are not
intended to be a complete list of acts which may constitute cruelty:
   A.   Overloading, overdriving, overworking, beating, torturing, tormenting,
mutilating or killing any animal or causing or knowingly allowing the same to
be done. Doctors of veterinary medicine, in the performance of their
profession, are not subject to the provisions of this section.
   B.   Cruelly working any old, maimed, injured, sick or disabled animal or
causing or knowingly allowing the same to be done.
   C.   Failing to provide any animal in one's charge or custody, as owner or
keeper, with proper food, drink, shelter, air, sanitation or medical care.
   D.   Abandoning any animal without making provisions for its care and
feeding. (Ord., 5-22-1985)
5-2-11: COCKFIGHTING, DOGFIGHTING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use or keep animals or be in any way
connected with the management of any place kept or used for the purpose of
fighting or baiting any dogs, cocks or other animals or permit such place to be
kept or used on premises owned or controlled by such persons. (Ord., 5-22-1985)
5-2-12: DEAD ANIMALS; DISPOSAL:
   A.   Responsibility For Disposal: The owner or keeper of an animal shall be
responsible for the disposal of such animal's remains upon its death, from
whatever cause, and regardless of the location of the remains of such animal.
   B.   Method Of Disposal: Animal remains shall be disposed of:
      1.   By burial beneath at least eighteen inches (18") of compacted soil
on the property of the animal's owner or keeper or any other location, with the
express permission of the owner of the property; or
      2.   By or through the Sangamon County animal pound; or
      3.   By or through a licensed veterinarian; or
      4.   By action of the animal control officer.
   C.   Improper Disposal; Written Notice: Animal control officers may issue a
written notice to any owner or keeper who has failed to properly dispose of the
remains of an animal as prescribed herein. Such person shall have twenty four
(24) hours from receipt of such notice to properly dispose of such remains. The
notice shall be served upon the violator personally or by leaving such notice
at his usual place of abode with some person of the family, of the age of
thirteen (13) years or upwards, and informing that person of the contents
thereof.
   D.   Disposal By Village: The village may dispose of any animal remains
without notice to the owner or keeper when:
      1.   Such remains are located on a public roadway;
      2.   The remains bear no owner identification tags as required by this
chapter;
      3.   The remains are located on the property of a person other than the
owner or keeper;
      4.   Service of a citation upon the owner or keeper is refused or not
readily possible within a short time.
   E.   Failure To Comply: In any case where a disposal notice is served, in
accordance with subsection C of this section, upon failure of a person served a
notice to properly dispose of such remains within the time allowed, the remains
may be disposed of by employees of the village and all costs of such removal
shall be paid by the owner or keeper of the dead animal to the village.
   F.   Cost Of Disposal: A minimum charge of fifty dollars ($50.00) for each
hour or part of an hour spent by animal control officers or other village
employees in disposing of the remains shall be levied against the owner or
keeper when the village disposes of the remains. The village is hereby
authorized to institute legal proceedings to collect any amount owing by the
owner or keeper; providing, that such suit is filed within two (2) years of the
issuance of the citation. (Ord., 5-22-1985)
5-2-13: INJURED ANIMALS OR ANIMALS FOUND DEAD ON PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Pick Up By Animal Control Officer: Any animal discovered injured or
dead on a public way of the village shall be impounded or picked up by the
animal control officer.
   B.   Tagged Animals: Seriously injured animals which are wearing owner
identification tags will be taken to a doctor of veterinary medicine who shall
contact the owner for treatment instructions and who shall maintain the animal,
painlessly, if possible, until instructions are received. The owner or keeper
shall be responsible for the costs of the impoundment and treatment.
   C.   Untagged Animals: Seriously injured animals which do not bear owner
identification tags shall be impounded and euthanized forthwith by a doctor of
veterinary medicine to avoid unnecessary suffering to the animal.
   D.   Release; Treatment: Injured animals wearing owner identification tags
shall be released to the pound within forty eight (48) hours if the owner
cannot be contacted and treatment is completed or if the animal requires
treatment beyond treatment to minimize suffering or pain, such treatment may be
provided at the owner's or keeper's expense.
   E.   Impoundment Fees: No animal will be released by a veterinarian from
impoundment to the owner or keeper following treatment of an injury until a
release is received from the village showing payment of impoundment fees.
(Ord., 5-22-1985)
5-2-14: INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to, in any way, interfere with any person
who is known to such person to be or who identifies himself to be and is in
fact, a village employee or officer enforcing the provisions of this chapter or
engaged in catching or impounding any dog or cat under the authority of this
chapter. Any person convicted of a violation of the provisions of this section
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 5-22-1985; amd. 1997 Code)
5-2-15: IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Authority To Impound Animals And Enter Onto Private Property:
      1.   Authority To Impound: It shall be the duty of the animal control
officer and officers of the police department as shall be designated for that
purpose by the chief of police to take up and impound in the Sangamon County
animal pound, or other place as designated by the chief of police, any animal
found at large or any dog or cat found in the village without identification,
inoculation or licensing tags contrary to any of the provisions of this
chapter, or statutes of the state of Illinois.
      2.   Authority To Enter: The animal control officer and officers of the
police department are authorized to go upon private property in order to
enforce this chapter or to take up any animal which is found at large or take
up any dog or cat found without required inoculation, licensing or
identification tags; however such persons may not enter a private dwelling
house for this purpose without a valid warrant or the consent of an occupant.
   B.   Impoundment Of Animals Which Have Bitten Persons:
      1.   Impoundment: Any animal, whether under restraint or not, which shall
have bitten or otherwise injured any person so as to cause an abrasion of the
skin shall be immediately taken, impounded and kept separated from other
animals for ten (10) days.
      2.   Notice Of Bite: The victim of such bite and the animal control unit
shall notify the Sangamon County department of public health of the bite within
twenty four (24) hours.
      3.   Development Of Symptoms: If during that period such animal develops
symptoms of illness, a veterinarian shall diagnose its condition.
      4.   Destruction Of Animal: If the symptoms disclose or are such as to
indicate the presence of rabies, such animal shall be destroyed in such manner,
however, as to preserve intact the head, which shall thereupon be detached and
immediately sent to the diagnostic laboratory of the department of agriculture.
      5.   Unable To Safely Impound: In case such animal cannot be safely taken
up and impounded, it may be killed, care being taken to preserve the head
intact which shall thereupon be detached and immediately delivered to the
diagnostic laboratory of the department of agriculture.
      6.   Redemption From Pound: If at the expiration of the period of ten
(10) days, no symptoms of rabies have developed in such animal so impounded,
the same may be redeemed by the owner or keeper upon payment of the redemption
fees and charges specified in this chapter.
      7.   Impoundment By Owner: After having been notified that his animal has
bitten or otherwise injured any person, the owner or keeper thereof shall not,
under any circumstances, permit such animal to be outside of his premises
except on a leash with a responsible adult until the procedures prescribed in
subsections B1 and B2 of this section have been completed. Failure of the owner
or keeper of an animal impounded or to be impounded in accordance with this
section or comparable section of state law to adhere strictly to the provisions
of this subsection shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   C.   Notice To Owners Or Keepers Of Impoundment And Violation: The Sangamon
County animal pound shall notify the owners or keepers of animals impounded
pursuant to this chapter, if known to them, of the fact of impoundment.
   D.   Fees:
      1.   Impoundment: Any animal impounded under the provisions of this
chapter, except such as may have bitten any person, shall, unless sooner
redeemed, be held until it may be disposed of pursuant to subsection E of this
section in order to afford opportunity to the owner or keeper thereof to the
same. Any such owner or keeper desiring to redeem an impounded animal shall pay
an impounding fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) per animal to the village and, in
addition, to Sangamon County the cost of keeping such animal while impounded;
provided, however, that forty dollars ($40.00) of the village's impoundment fee
shall be waived for the first time a dog of a particular owner is redeemed. For
the purpose of this subsection, the owner of an animal shall be entitled to the
reduced impoundment fee once during every three (3) year period. The impounding
fee shall be paid by the owner or keeper at the village bookkeeper office, the
fees for the cost of keeping the animal, and any additional fee such as a fee
for inoculation, shall be paid at the Sangamon County animal pound.
      2.   Inoculation: In case any dog or cat has not been inoculated against
rabies for the current calendar year, such owner shall also advance the fee
required to have such dog inoculated by the duly licensed veterinarian and the
administrator of the pound shall forthwith cause the dog to be inoculated for
the current calendar year, or in accordance with the requirements of the
department of agriculture.
   E.   Disposition Of Animals: Any dog or other animal, except animals bearing
owner identification or inoculation tags, impounded pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter which shall not be redeemed within three (3) working days shall
be humanely destroyed or otherwise disposed of by the director of the Sangamon
County animal pound. Any dog validly licensed or with owner identification tags
and impounded pursuant to the provisions of this chapter which shall not be
redeemed within seven (7) working days shall be humanely destroyed or otherwise
disposed of by the director of the Sangamon County animal pound. (Ord., 5-22-
1985)
5-2-16: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY:
   A.   Issuance Of Citations To Persons In Violation:
      1.   Authority To Issue: Animal control officers, and others specifically
designated by the village president, are hereby authorized to issue citations
upon a reasonable belief that any person has violated any provisions of this
chapter.
      2.   Form Of Citation: Such citation shall be issued on forms approved by
the village board of trustees.
      3.   Service Of Citation: Such citation shall be issued personally to the
violator, left with a responsible family member of at least thirteen (13) years
of age at the home of the violator, or mailed to the residence of the violator.
      4.   Copy Filed With Clerk: Persons issuing a citation shall ensure that
a copy of the citation is filed at the village clerk's office as soon as
practical after issuance of such citation.
   B.   Payment To Avoid Prosecution:
      1.   Payment Within Seven Days: Upon receipt of a citation alleging a
violation of any section of this chapter, the violator may pay one-half (1/2)
of the minimum fine provided in this chapter at the village clerk's office;
provided, that this amount is paid within seven (7) working days of issuance of
the citation.
      2.   Payment After Seven Days: After seven (7) working days of the
issuance of a citation, the full fine applicable to the violation must be paid
to avoid prosecution.
   C.   Prosecution Of Violations: After seven (7) working days have elapsed
from the date of the issuance of a citation authorized by this chapter, action
may be taken by the board of trustees to file the complaint form and prosecute
the alleged violation in the circuit court.
   D.   Penalty: Any person convicted of violating any section of this chapter
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 5-22-1985; amd. 1997 Code)
5-2-17: REQUIREMENT FOR DISPOSAL:
All pet owners and keepers are required to immediately and properly dispose of
their pet's solid waste deposited on any property, public or private, not owned
or possessed by that person. (Ord. 2014-008, 9-10-2014, eff. 10-1-2014)
CHAPTER 3
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-3-1: State Law Provisions Adopted
5-3-2: Disorderly Conduct
5-3-3: Weapons And Firearms Restrictions
5-3-4: Fireworks
5-3-5: Penalty
5-3-1: STATE LAW PROVISIONS ADOPTED:
   A.   Purpose: This chapter is designed to assure uniform application of
state and municipal regulations concerning the ownership, use, operation and
regulation of certain statutory offenses.
   B.   State Law Provisions Adopted: The following enumerated sections of the
Illinois Compiled Statutes, exclusive of any provisions thereof relating to the
penalties or the punishment to be imposed for violation of such sections, are
adopted and by reference made a part of this chapter with the same force and
effect as though set forth herein verbatim, and the term "this act" wherever
used in any such section shall mean this chapter, when necessary to effectuate
the meaning of the section:
Chapter And Section Number Subject
Chapter And Section Number Subject
720 ILCS 5/11-30           Public indecency
720 ILCS 5/12-1            Assault
720 ILCS 5/12-2            Aggravated assault
720 ILCS 5/12-3            Battery
720 ILCS 5/12-5            Reckless conduct
720 ILCS 5/12C-30          Contributing to the delinquency of a minor
720 ILCS 5/16-1            Theft
720 ILCS 5/16-2            Theft of lost or mislaid property
720 ILCS 5/16-5            Theft from coin operated machines
720 ILCS 5/21-1            Criminal damage to property
720 ILCS 5/21-2            Criminal trespass to vehicle
720 ILCS 5/21-3            Criminal trespass to real property
720 ILCS 635/1             Possession of hypodermic syringes and needles
720 ILCS 5/24-1            Unlawful use of weapons
720 ILCS 5/24-2            Unlawful use of weapons exemptions
720 ILCS 5/26-1            Disorderly conduct
720 ILCS 5/26.5-2          Harassment by telephone
720 ILCS 5/31-1            Resisting a police officer
720 ILCS 5/31-3            Obstructing service of process
720 ILCS 5/31-4            Obstructing justice
720 ILCS 5/31-6            Escape from custody
720 ILCS 5/31-7            Aiding an escape
720 ILCS 5/31-8            Refusing to aid an officer
720 ILCS 550/4             Possession of cannabis
720 ILCS 550/5             Manufacture and delivery of cannabis
720 ILCS 550/8             Production of cannabis
 
(1997 Code)
5-3-2: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
   A.   Disorderly Conduct Defined: A person commits disorderly conduct when he
knowingly:
      1.   Breach Of The Peace: Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to
provoke, make or aid in making a breach of peace; or
      2.   Threat Of Violence: Does or makes any unreasonable or offensive act,
utterance, gesture or display which, under the circumstances, creates a clear
and present danger of a breach of peace or imminent threat of violence; or
      3.   Disturbing The Peace: Disturbs the peace and quiet of any
neighborhood or family by loud or unusual noises, or by tumultuous or offensive
carriage, threatening, quarreling, challenging to fight or fighting or in a
threatening manner displays any deadly weapon; or
      4.   Failure To Cease Conduct: Refuses or fails to cease and desist any
peaceful conduct or activity likely to produce a breach of peace where there is
an imminent threat of violence, and where the police have made all reasonable
efforts to protect the otherwise peaceful conduct and activity, and have
requested that said conduct and activity be stopped and explain the request if
there be time; or
      5.   Failure To Disperse: Fails to obey a lawful order of dispersal by a
person known by him to be a peace officer under circumstances where three (3)
or more persons are committing acts of disorderly conduct in the immediate
vicinity, which acts are likely to cause substantial harm or serious
inconvenience, annoyance or alarm; or
      6.   Unlawful Assembly: Assembles with two (2) or more persons for the
purpose of using force or violence to disturb the public peace; or
      7.   Public Intoxication: Appears in any public place manifestly under
the influence of alcohol, narcotics or other drug, not therapeutically
administered, to the degree that he may endanger himself or other persons or
property, or annoy persons in his vicinity; or
      8.   Picketing:
         a.   Near Schools: Pickets or demonstrates on a public way within one
hundred fifty feet (150') of any primary or secondary school building while the
school is in session and one-half (1/2) hour before the school is in session
and one- half (1/2) hour after the school session has been concluded; provided,
however, that this subsection does not prohibit the peaceful picketing of any
school involved in a labor dispute; or
         b.   Near Churches: Pickets or demonstrates on a public way within one
hundred fifty feet (150') of any church, temple, synagogue or other place of
worship while services are being conducted and one-half (1/2) hour before
services are to be conducted and one-half (1/2) hour after services have been
concluded; provided, that this subsection does not prohibit the peaceful
picketing of any church, temple, synagogue or other place of worship involved
in a labor dispute.
   B.   Penalty For Violation: Conviction of disorderly conduct pursuant to
this section shall constitute a misdemeanor, and a person convicted of
disorderly conduct may be:
      1.   Subject to a penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense; and
      2.   Required to perform reasonable public service work, such as, but not
limited to, the picking up of litter in public parks or along public highways
or the maintenance of public facilities for a period of time not to exceed one
hundred twenty (120) hours. (Ord., 7-8-1992; amd. 1997 Code)
5-3-3: WEAPONS AND FIREARMS RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Weapons:
      1.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to, in a threatening
manner, carry or display a pistol, knife, slingshot, brass, steel or iron
knuckles or any deadly or dangerous weapon, including any air propelled pellet
or BB gun.
      2.   Minors: It shall further be unlawful for any minor to have in his
possession any firearms; including air propelled pellet or BB guns.
      3.   Exception: This subsection shall not apply to officers of the law
who are engaged in the duties of their office.
      4.   Penalty: Any person violating this subsection shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1  of this code.
   B.   Discharge Of Firearms; Hunting: No person shall discharge any firearms
or do any hunting in the village. This shall not apply to peace officers in the
line of duty or any person acting in self-defense.
   C.   Applicability: This section shall not be held to apply to any peace
officer while in the discharge of the officer’s duty, nor any person summoned
by the officer to aid in making an arrest or preserving the peace, nor any
person permitted by the State of Illinois to carry a concealed weapon. (Ord. 7-
13-1983; amd. 1997 Code; Ord. 2021-011, 8-11-2021; Ord. 2021-011, 8-13-2021)
5-3-4: FIREWORKS:
No person shall sell, offer for sale, use or explode any fireworks in the
village, except that the board of trustees may grant a permit for a public
display of fireworks under such conditions as it may impose under the
provisions of 425 Illinois Compiled Statutes 35/2. (1997 Code)
5-3-5: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided, whoever violates any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be subject to a penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1997 Code)
CHAPTER 4
MINORS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Curfew For Minors
5-4-1: CURFEW FOR MINORS 1 :
   A.   Age Thirteen To Sixteen Hour Restrictions: It is unlawful for a person
thirteen (13) to sixteen (16) years of age to be present at or upon any public
assembly, building, place, street or highway at the following times unless
accompanied and supervised by a parent, legal guardian or other responsible
companion at least eighteen (18) years of age approved by a parent or legal
guardian or unless engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of this
state authorize a person less than seventeen (17) years of age to perform:
      1.   Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. Saturday;
      2.   Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. Sunday; and
      3.   Between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sunday to Thursday,
inclusive, and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the following day.
   B.   Under Age Thirteen Hour Restrictions: It is unlawful for a person less
than thirteen (13) years of age to be present at or upon any public assembly,
building, place, street or highway at the following times unless accompanied
and supervised by a parent, legal guardian or other responsible companion at
least eighteen (18) years of age approved by a parent or legal guardian or
unless engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of this state
authorize a person less than seventeen (17) years of age to perform:
      1.   Between ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. Friday and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
Saturday;
      2.   Between ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. Saturday and six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. Sunday; and
      3.   Between nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive,
and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the following day.
   C.   Allowing Violation Prohibited: It is unlawful for a parent, legal
guardian or other person to knowingly permit a person in his custody or control
to violate subsection A or B of this section.
   D.   Penalty: A person convicted of a violation of any provision of this
section shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 9-22-1993; amd. 1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/12C-60.
CHAPTER 5
CANNABIS AND DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: Possession Of Cannabis
5-5-3: Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia Prohibited
5-5-4: Possession Of Cannabis Paraphernalia By Minors Prohibited
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings,
unless the context clearly indicates that a different meaning is intended:
                   Includes marijuana, hashish and other substances which are identified as
                   including any parts of the plant Cannabis Sativa, whether growing or not; the
                   seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and any
                   compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of such plant,
                   its seeds, or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other
                   cannabinol derivatives, including its naturally occurring or synthetically
CANNABIS:          produced ingredients, whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction, or
                   independently by means of chemical synthesis or by a combination of extraction
                   and chemical synthesis; but shall not include the mature stalks of such plant,
                   fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant,
                   any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of
                   such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake,
                   or the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of germination.
                   Equipment, products, or materials intended to be used for planting, propagating,
CANNABIS           cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, producing, processing,
PARAPHERNALIA:     preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing,
                   concealing, ingesting, or otherwise introducing cannabis into the human body.
CONTROLLED         Any substance as defined in Article II of the Illinois Controlled Substances
SUBSTANCE:         Act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 570/201 et seq.
DELIVER OR         Actual, constructive or attempted transfer of possession of cannabis, with or
DELIVERY:          without consideration, whether or not there is an agency relationship.
                   All equipment, products and materials of any kind, other than methamphetamine
                   manufacturing materials as defined in Section 10 of the Methamphetamine Control
                   and Community Protection Act and cannabis paraphernalia as defined in Section 1-
                   10 of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, which are intended to be used
                   unlawfully in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
                   manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
                   testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing,
                   injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing into the human body a
                   controlled substance in violation of the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, or
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA the Methamphetamine Control and Community Protection Act or a synthetic drug
:                  product or misbranded drug in violation of the Illinois Food, Drug and Cosmetic
                   Act. It includes, but is not limited to:
                   A.   Kits intended to be used unlawfully in manufacturing, compounding,
                   converting, producing, processing, or preparing a controlled substance;
                   B.   Isomerization devices intended to be used unlawfully in increasing the
                   potency of any species of plant which is a controlled substance;
                   C.   Testing equipment intended to be used unlawfully in a private home for
                   identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of controlled
                   substances;
                   D.   Diluents and adulterants intended to be used unlawfully for cutting a
                   controlled substance by private persons;
                   E.   Objects intended to be used unlawfully in ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
                   introducing cocaine or a synthetic drug product or misbranded drug in violation
                   of the Illinois Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act into the human body including, where
                   applicable, the following items:
                      1.   Water pipes;
                      2.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
                      3.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
                     4.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
                      5.   Carburetor pipes;
                      6.   Electric pipes;
                      7.   Air-driven pipes;
                      8.   Chillums;
                      9.   Bongs;
                      10.   Ice pipes or chillers;
                   F.   Any items whose purpose, as announced or described by the seller, is for
                   use in violation of this Act.
                   Knows, acts knowingly or with knowledge:
                   A.   The nature or attendant circumstances of his/her conduct, described by the
                   section defining the offense, when he/she is consciously aware that his/her
                   conduct is of such nature or that such circumstances exist. Knowledge of a
KNOWLEDGE:      material fact includes awareness of the substantial probability that such fact
                   exists.
                   B.   The result of his/her conduct, described by the section defining the
                   offense, when he/she is consciously aware that such result is likely to be
                   caused by his/her conduct.
                  C.   Knowledge may be inferred from the surrounding circumstances.
                   The production, preparation, propagation, compounding, conversion or processing
                   of cannabis, either directly or indirectly, by extraction from substances of
                   natural origin, or independently by means of chemical synthesis, and includes
                   any packaging or repackaging of cannabis or labeling of its container, except
MANUFACTURE:       that this term does not include the preparation, compounding, packaging or
                   labeling of cannabis as an incident to lawful research, teaching, chemical
                   analysis, or sold and possessed as provided in the Compassionate Use of Medical
                   Cannabis Pilot Program Act, as amended, and the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
                   as amended.
NITROUS OXIDE      A colorless flammable gas used as an anesthetic and in aerosols.
(N2O):
NITROUS OXIDE      Any cartridge containing less than twenty (20) ounces of compressed nitrous
CARTRIDGE:         oxide (N2O).
ORDINARY PUBLIC    Means within the sight line with normal visual range of a person, unassisted by
VIEW:              visual aids, from a public street or sidewalk adjacent to real property, or from
                   within an adjacent property.
PERSON:            Any individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust, partnership or
                   association, or any other entity.
                   Possession may be either actual or constructive.
                   A.   Actual possession means exercising physical dominion.
POSSESSION:        B.   Constructive possession may be inferred if the defendant has intent and
                   capacity to maintain control and dominion over the cannabis or drug
                   paraphernalia.
PRODUCE OR         Planting, cultivating, tending or harvesting.
PRODUCTION:    
                   Any place where a person could reasonably be expected to be observed by others.
                   This included, but is not limited to, all parts of buildings owned in whole or
                   in part, or leased, by the State or a unit of local government and all areas in
PUBLIC PLACE:      a park, recreation area, wildlife area, or playground owned in whole or in part,
                   leased, or managed by the State or a unit of local government. The term "Public
                   Place" does not include a private residence unless the private residence is used
                   to provide licensed child care, foster care, or other similar social service
                   care on the premises.
 
(Ord. 2016-008, 10-26-2016; amd. Ord. 2019-009, 12-12-2019)
5-5-2: POSSESSION OF CANNABIS:
   A.   Possession, Exceeding State Limits. It shall be unlawful for and no
person shall possess more than thirty grams (30g) of raw cannabis, cannabis-
infused products containing more than five hundred milligrams (500 mg) of THC,
or five grams (5g) of cannabis product in concentrated form. It shall further
be unlawful for and no person shall possess cannabis at the following
locations: (1) in a school bus, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or
caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program
Act; (2) on the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary school, unless
permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate
Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act; (3) in any correctional facility;
(4) in a vehicle not open to the public unless the cannabis is in a reasonably
secured, sealed container and reasonably inaccessible while the vehicle is
moving; or (5) in a private residence that is used at any time to provide
licensed child care or other similar social service care on the premises.
   B.   Possession, Sale or Providing to Minors Prohibited.
      1.   It shall be unlawful for and no person under the age of twenty-one
(21) shall possess, consume, or use any substance containing cannabis or THC,
except as allowed by the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, as
amended.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for and no person, after purchasing or
otherwise obtaining any substance containing cannabis or THC shall sell, give
or deliver such substance to a person under the age of 21, except as allowed by
the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, as amended.
   C.   Unlawful Consumption of Cannabis. It shall be unlawful for and no
person shall use cannabis or cannabis-infused products at the following
locations: (1) in a school bus, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or
caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program
Act; (2) on the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary school, unless
permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate
Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act; (3) in any correctional facility;
(4) in any motor vehicle; (5) in a private residence that is used at any time
to provide licensed child care or other similar social service care on the
premises; (6) in any public place; or (7) knowingly in close physical proximity
to anyone under 21 years of age who is not a registered medical cannabis
patient under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act; or
in any place where smoking is prohibited under the Smoke Free Illinois Act.
   D.   Unlawful Possession of Cannabis Sativa Plant. It shall be unlawful for
any person to possess a cannabis sativa plant, except as provided by the
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, as may be amended. It shall further be
unlawful to have a cannabis sativa plant in ordinary public view.
   E.   Penalty. Any person who pleads guilty or liable or is found guilty or
liable by a court of law or administrative tribunal for a violation of this
Section shall be fined as follows:
      1.   Paragraphs A through C shall be punished by a fine of two hundred
and fifty dollars ($250.00).
      2.   Paragraph D shall be punished by a fine of two hundred and fifty
dollars ($250.00) per cannabis sativa plant.
   F.   Exceptions.
      1.   Any person who manufactures, distributes, dispenses, or is in
possession of any controlled substance for research purposes, pursuant to 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/11, as hereafter amended, shall be exempt from
the provisions of this Section.
      2.   Any person in possession of a compassionate use of medical cannabis
card, as provided by the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, as
amended, may grow up to 5 cannabis plants within a secured enclosed facility.
      3.   Possession and/or consumption by any person in possession of a
compassionate use of medical cannabis card, as provided by the Compassionate
Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, as may be amended, where said possession
and/or consumption is authorized by and in accordance with said Act.
      4.   Any person who is licensed and authorized by the State of Illinois
to dispense, cultivate, grow, infuse or deliver cannabis or substances
containing THC to the extent it is permitted and authorized by State law.
   G.   Admissibility of Cannabis. In a prosecution for a violation of Section
5-5-2, evidence of cannabis shall only be admitted into evidence based upon:
      1.   A properly administered field test; or
      2.   Opinion testimony of a peace officer based on the officer's training
and experience as qualified by the court.
   H.   Relationship to State Laws. Except as provided herein, violations of
this section shall be considered civil in nature and prosecuted as local
ordinance violations. The Village may however, in its discretion, refer
violations involving the possession or consumption of cannabis under the
Cannabis Control Act, or other applicable law, to the State's Attorney for
charges pursuant to State law instead of bringing charges pursuant to this
section, but no person shall be charged both pursuant to this chapter and State
law for the same offense. If the law requires a charge involving the possession
or consumption of cannabis to be referred to the State's Attorney to be charged
criminally pursuant to State law, the Village shall make such a referral and
shall not prosecute the violation as a local ordinance violation.
(Ord. 2016-008, 10-26-2016; amd. Ord. 2019-009, 12-12-2019)
5-5-3: POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA PROHIBITED:
   A.   Violation for Possession of Drug Paraphernalia: No person shall
knowingly possess any item of Drug Paraphernalia, as defined in Section
5-5-1, where it is evident the purpose is for unlawfully ingesting, inhaling,
or otherwise introducing a controlled substance into the human body, or in
preparing a controlled substance for that use within the corporate limits of
the Village of Divernon. In determining evidence of an unlawful purpose, the
trier of fact may take into consideration the proximity of the controlled
substances to the drug paraphernalia or the presence of a controlled substance
on the drug paraphernalia.
   B.   Penalty. Any person who pleads guilty or liable or is found guilty or
liable by a court of law or administrative tribunal shall be punished by a fine
of two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00).
   C.   Forfeiture. "Drug paraphernalia" as defined in Section
5-5-1, seized by police officers pursuant to an arrest or issuance of a notice
to appear for a violation of this Section, shall be forfeited to the Village
upon a plea of guilty or liability, a finding of guilt or liable and/or a
disposition of court supervision or probation by a court of law or upon the
individual utilizing any administrative remedy allowed by the Village without
further order of the court. Any other items which may be seized or forfeited
pursuant to Section 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 600/5, may be forfeited in
the same manner as described therein for a violation of this Section.
   D.   Exemptions. This Section does not apply to:
      1.   Items used in the preparation, compounding, packaging, labeling, or
other use of a controlled substance as an incident to lawful sale, use,
research, teaching or chemical analysis and not for sale.
      2.   Items historically and customarily used in connection with the
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing,
packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting,
or inhaling of tobacco or any other lawful substance unless such item has the
presence of a controlled substance. Items exempt under this subsection include,
but are not limited to, garden hoes, rakes, sickles, baggies, tobacco pipes,
and cigarette rolling papers.
      3.   Items listed in the definition of "drug paraphernalia" in Section
5-5-1 if said items are used solely for decorative purposes, when such items
have been rendered completely inoperable or incapable of being used for any
illicit purposes prohibited by this chapter.
      4.   A person who is legally authorized to possess hypodermic syringes or
needles under the Hypodermic Syringes and Needles Act, 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 635/0.01 et seq.
   E.   Relationship to State Laws. Except as provided herein, violations of
this section shall be considered civil in nature and prosecuted as local
ordinance violations. The Village may however, in its discretion, refer
violations involving the possession or use of drug paraphernalia under the Drug
Paraphernalia Control Act, or other applicable law, to the State's Attorney for
charges instead of bringing charges pursuant to this section, but no person
shall be charged both pursuant to this chapter and State law for the same
offense. If the law requires a charge involving drug paraphernalia to be
referred to the State's Attorney to be charged criminally pursuant to state
law, the village shall make such a referral and shall not prosecute the
violation as a local ordinance violation.
(Ord. 2016-008, 10-26-2016; amd. Ord. 2019-009, 12-12-2019)
5-5-4: POSSESSION OF CANNABIS PARAPHERNALIA BY MINORS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Violation for Possession of Cannabis Paraphernalia by Minors. No person
under the age of twenty-one (21) shall knowingly possess any item of Cannabis
Paraphernalia where it is evident the purpose is for unlawfully ingesting,
inhaling, or otherwise introducing cannabis into the human body, or in
preparing cannabis for that use within the corporate limits of the Village of
Divernon. In determining evidence of an unlawful purpose, the trier of fact may
take into consideration the proximity of the controlled substances to the
cannabis paraphernalia or the presence of a controlled substance on the
cannabis paraphernalia.
   B.   Penalty. Any person who pleads guilty or liable or is found guilty or
liable by a court of law or administrative tribunal shall be punished by a fine
of two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00).
   C.   Forfeiture. "Cannabis paraphernalia" as defined in Section
5-5-1, seized by police officers pursuant to an arrest or issuance of a notice
to appear for a violation of this Section, shall be forfeited to the Village
upon a plea of guilty or liability, a finding of guilt or liable and/or a
disposition of court supervision or probation by a court of law or upon the
individual utilizing any administrative remedy allowed by the Village without
further order of the court. Any other items which may be seized or forfeited
pursuant to Section 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 600/5, may be forfeited in
the same manner as described therein for a violation of this Section.
(Ord. 2019-009, 12-12-2019)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS; ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
6-1-1: Definitions
6-1-2: Application To Animals And Bicycles
6-1-3: Accident Report Required
6-1-4: Obedience To Police And Fire Officials
6-1-5: Fleeing Or Attempting To Elude Police Officer
6-1-1: DEFINITIONS 1 :
The Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes, chapter 1, entitled
"title and definitions", as passed, approved and amended by the Illinois
general assembly, is hereby adopted by the village. The provisions thereof
shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the village. (Ord. MVC05-
01, 6-8-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-3-2, 5/11-1-1.
6-1-2: APPLICATION TO ANIMALS AND BICYCLES 1 :
Any person riding a bicycle or an animal or driving any animal drawing a
vehicle upon any street shall be subject to the provisions of this title
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions which can have
no application to one riding a bicycle or driving or riding an animal. (Ord.
MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
 
Notes
1 2. 625 ILCS 5/11-206.
6-1-3: ACCIDENT REPORT REQUIRED 1 :
The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident within
the village shall, without unnecessary delay, notify the police department and
shall make a report of such action. Failure to report an accident within the
village within twenty four (24) hours shall result in arrests of the person or
persons involved. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
 
Notes
1 3. 625 ILCS 5/11-415.
6-1-4: OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND FIRE OFFICIALS:
   A.   Obedience To Police 1 : Members of the police department, special
police, and auxiliary police assigned to traffic duty are hereby authorized to
direct all traffic in accordance with the provisions of this title or in
emergencies as public safety or convenience may require, and it shall be
unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order,
signal or direction of a police officer. Except in cases of emergency, it shall
be unlawful for any person not authorized by law to direct or attempt to direct
traffic. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
   B.   Scene Of Fire: The Divernon fire protection district fire department
officer in command or any firefighter designated by him may exercise the powers
and authority of a police officer in directing traffic at the scene of any fire
or where the Divernon fire protection district fire department has responded to
an emergency call for so long as the Divernon fire protection district fire
department equipment is on the scene in the absence of or in assisting the
police department. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005; amd. per correspondence dated 3-8-
2013)
 
Notes
1 4. 625 ILCS 5/11-203.
6-1-5: FLEEING OR ATTEMPTING TO ELUDE POLICE OFFICER:
Any driver or operator of a motor vehicle who, having been given a visual or
audible signal by a police officer directing such driver or operator to bring
his vehicle to a stop, wilfully fails to or refuses to obey such direction,
increases his speed, extinguishes his lights or otherwise flees or attempts to
elude the officer is guilty of a violation of this section. The signal given by
the police officer may be by hand, voice, siren or red or blue light. Provided,
however, the officer giving such signal shall be in police uniform, and if
driving a vehicle, such vehicle shall be marked showing it to be an official
police vehicle. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
CHAPTER 2
TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Obedience Required; Specifications
6-2-2: Unauthorized Signs, Signals And Markings
6-2-3: Interference With Signs Or Signals
6-2-4: Unlawful Possession Of Signs, Signals Or Markers
6-2-1: OBEDIENCE REQUIRED; SPECIFICATIONS 1 :
It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the instructions
of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by authority of the corporate
authorities or in accordance with the laws of the state of Illinois except upon
direction of a police officer. All signs and signals established by direction
of the governing body shall conform to the "Illinois State Manual Of Uniform
Traffic Control Devices For Streets And Highways". (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/11-301.
6-2-2: UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS:
No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any street any
unauthorized sign, signal, marking, light, reflector or device, other than a
traffic sign or signal authorized by the village board or the Illinois
department of transportation, which purports to be or is an imitation of or
resembles an official traffic control device or railroad sign or signal, or
which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, nor shall any person place,
maintain or display upon or in view of any street any other sign which hides
from view or interferes with the movement of traffic or effectiveness of any
traffic control device or any railroad sign or signal, and no person shall
place or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit upon any highway, any
traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any commercial advertising. No tree,
bush or foliage of any kind shall be so placed, maintained, allowed to remain,
or displayed upon either public or private property in such a manner as to hide
from view or interfere with the movement of traffic or the effectiveness of any
traffic control device, sign or signal. It shall be unlawful to maintain or
operate any flashing or rotating beacon of light in view of any street or
highway. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005; amd. per correspondence dated 3-8-2013)
6-2-3: INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNS OR SIGNALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure, move or interfere with
any official traffic sign or signal. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
6-2-4: UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF SIGNS, SIGNALS OR MARKERS 1 :
Traffic control signals, signs or markers owned by the village shall be
possessed only by the village employees, police officers, contractors, or their
employees engaged in highway construction, contract or work upon the roadways
or public ways approved by the village. No person shall possess a traffic
control signal, sign or marker owned by the village except as provided in this
section without the prior written authority of the village. It shall be a
violation of this section for a person to possess such a traffic control
signal, sign or marker without lawful authority. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/11-313.
CHAPTER 3
DRIVING RULES
SECTION:
6-3-1: State Regulations Adopted; Amendments
6-3-2: Through, One-Way, Stop And Yield Right Of Way Streets
6-3-3: Speed Restrictions
6-3-4: Traffic Lane Usage
6-3-5: U-Turns Prohibited
6-3-6: Vehicle Load Limits
6-3-7: Transporting Liquor In Vehicles
6-3-8: Reckless, Negligent Or Careless Driving
6-3-9: Street Racing
6-3-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS:
The Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes chapter 11, entitled
"rules of the road", as passed, approved and amended by the Illinois general
assembly, is hereby adopted by the village, and the provisions thereof shall be
controlling within the corporate limits of the village except for the following
changes, deletions and omissions:
   A.   Omissions: Omit sections 11-207, 11-208.1, 11-208.2, 11-209.1, 11-302,
11-303, 11-310(f), 11-313, 11-401 to and including 11-416, 11-500 to and
including 11-502, 11-602, 11-603, 11-604, 11-606(b), 11-608, 11-1419, and 11-
1422.
   B.   Changes And Additions:
      1.   Change 11-904(a) to read: "Preferential right of way at an
intersection may be indicated by stop or yield signs as authorized by this
code".
      2.   Change 11-1416(a) to read: "Any person who shall wilfully and
unnecessarily attempt to delay, hinder or obstruct any other person in lawfully
driving and traveling upon or along any highway within this state or who shall
offer for barter or sale, merchandise on said highway so as to interfere with
the effective movement of traffic shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
violation of this code".
(Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
6-3-2: THROUGH, ONE-WAY, STOP AND YIELD RIGHT OF WAY STREETS:
   A.   Through Streets: The streets and parts of streets of the village
designated by ordinance as "through streets" are hereby declared to be through
streets. The driver of a vehicle shall stop at the entrance to a through street
and shall yield the right of way to other vehicles which have entered the
intersection or which are approaching so close on a through street as to
constitute an immediate hazard unless directed otherwise by the traffic
officer.
   B.   One-Way Streets And Alleys 1 : It shall be unlawful to operate any
vehicle on any streets or alleys designated as one-way streets or alleys by
ordinance in any direction other than that so designated.
   C.   Stop Streets 2 : The driver of a vehicle shall stop in obedience to a
stop sign at an intersection where a stop sign is erected pursuant to ordinance
at one or more entrances thereto and shall proceed cautiously, yielding to the
vehicles not so obliged to stop which are within the intersection or
approaching so close as to constitute an immediate hazard, unless traffic at
such intersection is controlled by a police officer on duty, in which event,
there shall be compliance with the directions of the police officer.
   D.   Yield Right Of Way Streets: The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield
sign, in obedience to such sign, shall slow down to a speed reasonable for the
existing conditions and if required for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side
of the intersection, or if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting
roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting
roadway. After slowing or stopping, the driver shall yield the right of way to
any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as
to constitute an immediate hazard during the time such driver is moving across
or within the intersection.
   E.   Signs Posted 3 : Appropriate signs shall be posted to show all through,
stop and yield right of way streets, all one-way streets and alleys and all
stop intersections. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005; amd. per correspondence dated 3-
20-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/11-208.
2 2. 625 ILCS 5/11-302.
3 3. 625 ILCS 5/11-304.
6-3-3: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Reasonable And Proper: A vehicle shall be driven upon the streets and
alleys of the village at a speed which is reasonable and proper with regard to
traffic conditions and the use of the street or alley. The fact that the
vehicle does not exceed the applicable maximum speed limit does not relieve the
driver of the duty to decrease speed when approaching and crossing an
intersection or when special hazard exists with respect to pedestrian or other
traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions. Speed must be decreased
as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on or
entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all
persons to use due care. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
   B.   Specific Speed Limits Established:
      1.   General Speed Restrictions 1 : The speed limits on the various
streets shall be approved by the village board, but shall not exceed twenty
(20) miles per hour in a school zone and shall not exceed thirty (30) miles per
hour on a residential street and shall not exceed a speed which is greater than
fifteen (15) miles per hour in an alley; otherwise, thirty (30) miles per hour
on an arterial street unless otherwise posted. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005; amd.
per correspondence dated 3-20-2013)
      2.   Special Speed Limit While Passing Schools 2 :
         a.   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess of
twenty (20) miles per hour while passing a school zone or while traveling upon
any public thoroughfare on or across which children pass going to and from
school during school days when schoolchildren are present.
         b.   This subsection B2 shall not be applicable unless appropriate
signs are posted upon streets and maintained by the village or state wherein
the school zone is located.
   C.   Speed On Elevated Structures 3 :
      1.   No person shall drive a vehicle over any bridge or other elevated
structure constituting a part of a highway at a speed which is greater than the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure
when such structure is signposted.
      2.   Upon the trial of any person charged with the violation of this
subsection, proof of the determination of the maximum speed by the village and
the existence of such signs is conclusive evidence of the maximum speed which
can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-
2005)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/11-604; 65 ILCS 5/11-40-1.
2 2. 625 ILCS 5/11-605.
3 3. 625 ILCS 5/11-608.
6-3-4: TRAFFIC LANE USAGE:
Whenever any roadway within the village has been divided into two (2) or more
clearly marked lanes for traffic, a vehicle shall be driven as nearly as
practicable entirely within a single lane and shall not be moved from such lane
until the driver has first ascertained that such movement can be made with
safety. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
6-3-5: U-TURNS PROHIBITED:
No driver of a vehicle shall make a U-turn on any street or at any intersection
of any streets in the village. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
6-3-6: VEHICLE LOAD LIMITS:
   A.   Established: There is hereby established gross load limits on certain
village streets. The term "gross load limit" shall mean the total weight of a
vehicle and the load it is carrying. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005; amd. per
correspondence dated 3-20-2013)
   B.   Restrictions: It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle upon any street
where the operation is prohibited by this section and where such signs of
prohibition are posted; except, that a vehicle may be driven on such street for
not more than the minimum distance necessary for the purpose of making
deliveries or picking up loads.
   C.   Exceptions: This section shall not include pickup trucks, trucks
operated by the village for maintenance and repairs on the streets or the
operation of vehicles owned by the U.S. government or state of Illinois while
on lawful business of these agencies. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
6-3-7: TRANSPORTING LIQUOR IN VEHICLES 1 :
No person shall transport, carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor within
the passenger area of any motor vehicle in the village except in the original
container and with the seal unbroken. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/11-502.
6-3-8: RECKLESS, NEGLIGENT OR CARELESS DRIVING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in the village in a
careless, reckless, negligent or wanton manner, or carelessly so as to endanger
life or property.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in the village in a careless
manner so as to interfere with the safe or lawful operation of any other
vehicle or so as to interfere with or to injure, damage, or endanger persons or
property engaged in the lawful use of the street. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
6-3-9: STREET RACING 1 :
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following words
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    ACQUIESCE OR PERMIT: Actual knowledge that the motor vehicle was to be used
for the purpose of street racing.
   STREET RACING: 1. The operation of two (2) or more vehicles from a point
side by side at accelerating speeds in a competitive attempt to outdistance
each other; or
      2.   The operation of one or more vehicles over a common selected course,
each starting at the same point, for the purpose of comparing the relative
speeds or power of acceleration of such vehicle or vehicles within a certain
distance or time limit; or
      3.   The use of one or more vehicles in an attempt to outgain or
outdistance another vehicle; or
      4.   The use of one or more vehicles to prevent another vehicle from
passing; or
      5.   The use of one or more vehicles to arrive at a given destination
ahead of another vehicle or vehicles; or
      6.   The use of one or more vehicles to test the physical stamina or
endurance of drivers over long distance driving routes.
   B.   Prohibitions:
      1.   No person shall engage in street racing on any street or highway of
the village.
      2.   No owner of any vehicle shall acquiesce in or permit his or her
vehicle to be used by another for the purpose of street racing. (Per
correspondence dated 3-8-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/11-506.
CHAPTER 4
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-4-1: General Parking Restrictions
6-4-2: Specific No Stopping, Standing Or Parking Places
6-4-3: Truck Parking
6-4-4: Parking For Persons With Disabilities
6-4-5: Time Limit Parking
6-4-6: Parking During Snowfall
6-4-7: Towing Vehicles
6-4-8: Violations; Penalties
6-4-1: GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Vehicles For Sale Or Repair: No person shall park a vehicle upon any
street for the purpose of:
      1.   Displaying such vehicle for sale; or
      2.   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, except when emergency
repairs are necessary.
   B.   Private Property: It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle on any
private property without the consent of the owner of the property.
   C.   Village Parking Lots: No person shall park a motor vehicle on a village
parking lot unattended for more than five (5) consecutive days. (Ord. MVC05-01,
6-8-2005)
6-4-2: SPECIFIC NO STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PLACES:
   A.   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic
control devices, no person shall:
      1.   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
         a.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street.
         b.   On a sidewalk.
         c.   Within an intersection.
         d.   On a crosswalk.
         e.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless a different length is indicated by signs or markings.
         f.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
         g.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel.
         h.   On any railroad tracks.
         i.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
         j.   On any controlled access highway.
         k.   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers.
         l.   In any alley that is open and maintained.
      2.   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except momentarily
to pick up or discharge passengers:
         a.   In front of a public or private driveway.
         b.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
         c.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
         d.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing
signal, stop sign, yield sign or traffic control signal located at the side of
the roadway.
         e.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of such entrance (when properly signposted).
         f.   At any place where official signs prohibit standing or parking.
      3.   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers:
         a.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing.
         b.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
         c.   In yellow zones.
   B.   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful. (Ord.
MVC05-01, 6-8-2005; amd. per correspondence dated 3-20-2013)
6-4-3: TRUCK PARKING:
   A.   Length Restrictions 1 : No person shall park any vehicle, vehicles or
trailer, the length of which exceeds twenty feet (20'), or any second division
vehicle licensed for an F classification or higher:
      1.   Upon any street, alley or public way within the village except for
the purpose and time period reasonably necessary to load and unload the same.
      2.   Upon public or private property within the village with the motor
running for a continuous period in excess of thirty (30) minutes. (Ord. MVC05-
01, 6-8-2005)
   B.   Weight Restrictions:
      1.   No vehicle with a gross weight of sixteen thousand (16,000) pounds
or more shall park on any street or alley within the village for a period of
more than two (2) continuous hours.
      2.   The village shall erect and maintain signs designating the
provisions of this subsection at each entrance to the village to apply to all
roads within the village limits. This subsection shall not be effective unless
such signs are erected and maintained. (Res. PL-01-00, 3-22-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/3-815.
6-4-4: PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES:
   A.   Parking Areas Designated: Certain parking spaces within the confines of
the village may be designated for use by vehicles of persons with disabilities
only and will be posted with appropriate signs to that effect.
   B.   Use Of Designated Parking Areas: The use of designated parking
locations for persons with disabilities, duly posted and signed, shall, to that
effect, be open to any vehicle which bears the appropriate Illinois
registration plate for persons with disabilities issued by the secretary of
state for the state of Illinois, or a valid parking permit for persons with
disabilities issued by another governmental agency or which bears a card for
persons with disabilities furnished in accordance with 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-1301.1 et seq., and furnished by the village.
   C.   Application For Registration Plate 1 : The issuance of an Illinois
motor vehicle registration plate for persons with disabilities shall be made
with the secretary of state of the state of Illinois at any facility provided
and approved for that purpose by the secretary of state.
   D.   Penalties: Any vehicle parked in violation of this section in a posted
designated space for persons with disabilities which does not bear an Illinois
registration plate for persons with disabilities or a valid parking permit for
persons with disabilities issued by another governmental agency will be
ticketed, and the vehicle will be removed in accordance with departmental
policies and in accordance with 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1302. The
registered owner of the vehicle as ascertained by the registration plates of
the vehicle will be presumed to be in control of the vehicle and will be fined
one hundred dollars ($100.00). The same registered owner will be held liable
for the cost of removal of the vehicle and must pay that cost, plus storage
charges, if any, prior to the release of the vehicle. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005;
amd. per correspondence dated 3-8-2013 and 3-20-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2.
6-4-5: TIME LIMIT PARKING:
It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for a period of time in excess of the
amount of time designated by law and so posted. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
6-4-6: PARKING DURING SNOWFALL:
   A.   Prohibited Streets: It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle on streets
designated by the village at any time within eighteen (18) hours after a
snowfall of three inches (3") or more, unless the street has been cleared of
snow. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
   B.   Village Square:
      1.   The village will determine when a snow emergency exists within the
village limits. If the village determines that a snow emergency exists, the
village street department or village police department will post "No Parking
Snow Emergency" signs around the village square, and it shall be unlawful to
park any type of vehicle around the village square where posted and during snow
removal.
      2.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this subsection or
neglecting or refusing to comply with any of the provisions hereof will be
fined twenty five dollars ($25.00) for the first offense and seventy five
dollars ($75.00) for each subsequent offense.
      3.   Any persons found to be in violation of this subsection will have
their vehicles towed from the designated snow removal area, and those persons
shall be responsible for any and all towing and storage expenses. (Ord. 2008-
016, 12-30-2008)
6-4-7: TOWING VEHICLES:
   A.   Authority: The police department and all members thereof assigned to
traffic duty are hereby authorized to remove and tow away, or have removed and
towed away by commercial towing service, any car, boat, trailer, or other
vehicle illegally parked in any place where such parked vehicle creates or
constitutes a traffic hazard, blocks the use of a fire hydrant or obstructs or
may obstruct the movement of any emergency vehicle; or any vehicle which has
been parked in any public street or other public place for a period of twenty
four (24) hours. In any emergency, any vehicle may be removed by any means when
authorized by the village police department.
   B.   Storage And Reclamation: Vehicles towed away shall be stored on any
village property or in a public garage or parking lot and shall be restored to
the owner or operator thereof after payment of the expense incurred by the
village in removing and storing such vehicle(s). (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
6-4-8: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Prima Facie Proof: The fact that a vehicle which is illegally parked or
operated is registered in the name of a person shall be considered prima facie
proof that such person was in control of the vehicle at the time of such
violation.
   B.   Violation Ticket:
      1.   The village board is hereby authorized to utilize 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/6-306.5 and the procedure set forth therein regarding
parking tickets.
      2.   The parking violation ticket shall be as attached to the ordinance
codified herein.
   C.   Penalties; Exemptions: Any person accused of a violation of an
ordinance prohibiting parking a vehicle in a designated area or restricting the
length of time a vehicle may be there parked may settle and compromise the
claim against him or her for such illegal parking by paying to the village ten
dollars ($10.00) for each such offense and fifteen dollars ($15.00) for the
second offense within six (6) months. Such payment may be made at the village
hall, and a receipt shall be issued for all monies so received, and such monies
shall be promptly turned over to the treasurer to be credited to the general
fund. The members of the police department are hereby authorized to refrain
from instituting a prosecution for the alleged offense involved for at least
five (5) days. Provided, that this subsection shall not apply to persons
parking a vehicle so as to obstruct the entrance or exit of any place where
police and fire department apparatus or other emergency equipment is kept or
housed or so as to block an emergency entrance in a hospital. Nor shall this
section apply to any person charged with parking a vehicle so as to entirely
obstruct traffic in any street or alley or parking in such a way as to reduce
traffic on an arterial street to one-way traffic only; nor to any person who
refuses to remove a vehicle illegally parked at the request of any member of
the police department. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
CHAPTER 5
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
SECTION:
6-5-1: State Regulations Adopted
6-5-2: Muffler
6-5-3: Bicycle Equipment Required At Nighttime
6-5-4: Noise Conditions
6-5-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes chapter 12, entitled
"equipment of vehicles", as passed, approved, and amended by the Illinois
general assembly, is hereby adopted by the village, and the provisions thereof
shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the village. (Ord. MVC05-
01, 6-8-2005; amd. per correspondence dated 3-18-2013)
6-5-2: MUFFLER 1 :
No motor vehicle shall be operated on any street unless such vehicle is
provided with a muffler in efficient actual working condition, and the use of a
cutout is prohibited. No muffler shall cause an unreasonably loud or excessive
noise. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/12-602.
6-5-3: BICYCLE EQUIPMENT REQUIRED AT NIGHTTIME:
When used at nighttime, every bicycle shall be equipped with the following:
   A.   A lamp upon the front which emits a white light visible from a distance
of at least five hundred feet (500') to the front.
   B.   A red reflector on the rear which shall be visible to a distance of six
hundred feet (600') to the rear when directly in front of lawful lower beams of
headlights on a motor vehicle.
   C.   A reflex reflector on each pedal visible from the front and rear of the
bicycle from a distance up to two hundred feet (200') when viewed within the
lawful lower beams of headlights on a motor vehicle.
   D.   Side reflectors upon each side of the bicycle which shall be visible up
to a distance of five hundred feet (500') when viewed directly in front of
lawful lower beams of motor vehicle headlights. The requirements of this
subsection may be met by reflective materials which shall be at least three-
sixteenths inch (3/16") wide on each side of each tire or rim which may
indicate as clearly as possible the continuous circular shape and size of the
tires or rims of such bicycle and which reflective materials may be of the same
color on both the front and rear tire or rim. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
6-5-4: NOISE CONDITIONS:
   A.   Excessive Noise:
      1.   Stopped Vehicle: No operator of a motor vehicle shall, when the
motor vehicle is stopped, unreasonably accelerate the engine thereof with the
gears of the vehicle in neutral, thereby causing an unreasonably loud or
excessive noise.
      2.   Wheels:
         a.   Shifting Gears To Cause Noise: No operator of a motor vehicle
shall, when the motor vehicle is stopped, accelerate the engine with the gears
of such vehicle in neutral and while so accelerating the engine, shift the
gears of the vehicle into a forward or reverse movement, thereby causing an
unreasonably loud noise with the drive wheels of the vehicle.
         b.   Squealing Tires 1 : No operator of a motor vehicle shall cause
the wheels of such vehicle to spin violently, thereby causing an unreasonably
loud or excessive noise.
      3.   While Driving: No operator of a motor vehicle shall, when operating
the vehicle, accelerate the vehicle or rapidly stop the vehicle causing an
unreasonably loud noise.
   B.   Sound Amplification System 2 : No driver of any motor vehicle within
the village shall operate or permit the operation of any sound amplification
system which can be heard outside the vehicle from seventy five feet (75') or
more when the vehicle is being operated upon a highway, unless such system is
being operated to request assistance or warn of a hazardous situation. (Ord.
MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/11-505.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/12-611.
CHAPTER 6
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-6-1: Definition
6-6-2: Operation On Public Ways Restricted
6-6-3: Unlawful Use
6-6-4: Penalties
6-6-1: DEFINITION:
The village hereby adopts the definition of "all-terrain vehicle" contained in
the statutes of the state of Illinois at 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-
102.02, namely an "all- terrain vehicle" is defined as any motorized off
highway device fifty inches (50") or less in width, having a manufacturer's dry
weight of six hundred (600) pounds or less, traveling on three (3) or more low
pressure tires, designed with a seat or saddle for operator use, and handlebars
or steering wheel for steering control. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
6-6-2: OPERATION ON PUBLIC WAYS RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any all-terrain vehicle
or off highway motorcycle upon any street, highway, roadway, or alleyway within
the village. Except all-terrain vehicles and off highway motorcycles may make a
direct crossing of said roadways, provided:
   A.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety degrees (90°)
to the direction of the street, road or highway and at a place where no
obstruction prevents a quick and safe crossing; and
   B.   The all-terrain vehicle or off highway motorcycle is brought to a
complete stop before attempting a crossing; and
   C.   The operator of the all-terrain vehicle or off highway motorcycle
yields the right of way to all pedestrian and vehicular traffic which
constitutes a hazard; and
   D.   That, when crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of the highway with another public street, road, or highway. (Ord.
MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
6-6-3: UNLAWFUL USE:
It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate any all- terrain vehicle or
off highway motorcycle in the following ways:
   A.   Careless Operation: In a careless or heedless manner so as to be
grossly indifferent to the person or property of other persons, or at a rate of
speed greater than will permit him, in the exercise of reasonable care, to
bring the all-terrain vehicle or off highway motorcycle to a stop within the
assured clear distance ahead.
   B.   Reckless Operation: In such a manner as to endanger the life, limb or
property of any person.
   C.   Railroad Tracks: On the tracks or right of way of an operating
railroad.
   D.   Private Property:
      1.   On private property, without the written or verbal consent of the
owner or lessee thereof. Any person operating an all- terrain vehicle or off
highway motorcycle upon lands of another shall stop and identify himself upon
the request of the landowner or his duly authorized representative, and, if
requested to do so by the landowner, shall promptly remove the all-terrain
vehicle or off highway motorcycle from the premises.
      2.   Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, an owner, lessee, or
occupant of premises owes no duty of care to keep the premises safe for entry
or use by others for use by an all-terrain vehicle or off highway motorcycle,
or to give warning of any condition, use, structure or activity on such
premises.
      3.   Nothing in this subsection limits in any way liability which
otherwise exists for wilful or malicious failure to guard or warn against a
dangerous condition, use, structure, or activity.
   E.   Public Lands:
      1.   On publicly owned lands unless such lands are designated for use by
all-terrain vehicles or off highway motorcycles. For publicly owned lands to be
designated for use by all- terrain vehicles or off highway motorcycles, a
public hearing shall be conducted by the governmental entity that has
jurisdiction over the proposed land prior to the designation.
      2.   Nothing in this subsection limits in any way liability which
otherwise exists for wilful or malicious failure to guard or warn against a
dangerous condition, use, structure, or activity.
   F.   Other Prohibitions:
      1.   No person, except persons permitted by law, shall operate or ride
any all-terrain vehicle or off highway motorcycle with any firearm in his or
her possession unless it is unloaded and enclosed in a carrying case, or any
bow unless it is unstrung or rendered unable to fire and is in a carrying case.
      2.   No person shall operate any all-terrain vehicle or off highway
motorcycle emitting pollutants in violation of standards established pursuant
to the environmental protection act.
      3.   No person shall deposit from an all-terrain vehicle or off highway
motorcycle on the snow, ice or ground surface, trash, glass, garbage, insoluble
material, or other offensive matter. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
6-6-4: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or neglecting or
refusing to comply with any of the provisions hereof shall be fined twenty five
dollars ($25.00) for a first offense and seventy five dollars ($75.00) for a
second or subsequent offense. Failure to pay any fine assessed pursuant to this
section within thirty (30) days of it being assessed will result in a dismissal
of said ordinance violation and a violation will be written under the statutes
of the state of Illinois. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005; amd. per correspondence
dated 3-8-2013)
CHAPTER 7
ABANDONED VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-7-1: Definitions
6-7-2: Abandonment Prohibited
6-7-3: Removal Of Vehicles; Costs
6-7-4: Records Of Tows
6-7-5: Records Searches For Owner
6-7-6: Reclamation Of Vehicle
6-7-7: Sale Of Vehicle
6-7-8: Older Vehicles
6-7-9: Records Kept
6-7-10: Disposition Of Proceeds
6-7-11: Nonliability Of Village Or Towing Service
6-7-12: Penalties
6-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
ascribed to them as follows:
ABANDONED VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle or other vehicle in a state of disrepair,
rendering the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition; or any motor
vehicle or other vehicle that has not been moved or used for seven (7)
consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted.
ANTIQUE VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle or other vehicle twenty five (25) years of
age or older.
COMPONENT PART: Any part of a vehicle, other than a tire, having a
manufacturer's identification number or an identification number issued by the
secretary of state.
DERELICT VEHICLE: Any inoperable, unregistered, or discarded motor vehicle,
regardless of title, having lost its characteristic as a substantial property
and left unattended without justification on the owner's, lienholder's or other
legally entitled person's land contrary to the public policy expressed in this
chapter.
HIGHWAY: Any street, alley or public way within the village.
REMOVE: To remove, deface, cover, or destroy.
VEHICLE 1 : Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street or highway, whether subject to or exempt
from registration, excepting, however, bicycles, snowmobiles and devices used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/4-201.
6-7-2: ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED:
   A.   Highway: The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or part
thereof on any highway in the village is unlawful and subject to penalties as
set forth herein.
   B.   Private Property: The abandonment of a vehicle or any part thereof on
private or public property other than a highway in view of the general public
anywhere in the village is unlawful.
   C.   Owner's Property: A vehicle or any part thereof so abandoned on private
property shall be authorized for removal by the police department, after a
waiting period of seven (7) days or more, or may be removed immediately if
determined to be a hazardous dilapidated motor vehicle under 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-40-3.
   D.   Penalty 1 : A violation of this section is subject to penalties as set
forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/4-201.
6-7-3: REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; COSTS:
   A.   Notice To Police; Removal 1 :
      1.   Where an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other
vehicle comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in the
village who is not the owner, lienholder or other legally entitled person of
the vehicle, such person shall immediately notify the police department when
the vehicle is within the corporate limits of the village.
      2.   Upon receipt of such notification, the police department or
designated representative shall authorize a towing service to remove and take
possession of the abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other
vehicle.
      3.   The towing service will safely keep the towed vehicle and its
contents, maintain a record of the tow, as set forth in section
6-7-4 of this chapter, until the vehicle is claimed by the owner, lienholder,
or any other person legally entitled to possession thereof or until it is
disposed of as provided in this chapter.
   B.   Removal From Public Ways:
      1.   When a vehicle is abandoned or left unattended on a highway in an
urban district for ten (10) hours or more, its removal by a towing service may
be authorized by the police department.
      2.   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned or partially
dismantled vehicle, or any vehicle which is parked on a public street or in a
private driveway which has been determined by village officials to be blocking
side vision or is determined to be a nuisance to any person, is creating a
traffic hazard because of its position in relation to the highway or its
physical appearance is causing the impeding of traffic, its immediate removal
from the highway or private property adjacent to the highway by a towing
service may be authorized by the police department.
   C.   Costs Of Removal: When vehicle removal from either public or private
property is authorized by the police department, the owner, lienholder or other
legally entitled person of the vehicle shall be responsible for all towing
costs.
   D.   State Regulations Adopted 2 : The remaining provisions of 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/4-203 are hereby adopted by reference, and the provisions
thereof shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the village. (Ord.
MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
 
Notes
1 2. 625 ILCS 5/4-202.
2 1. 625 ILCS 5/4-203.
6-7-4: RECORDS OF TOWS 1 :
When a vehicle is authorized to be towed away as provided herein, the police
department shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed, listing the
color, year of manufacture, manufacturer's trade name, manufacturer's series
name, body style, vehicle identification number and license plate year and
number displayed on the vehicle. The record shall also include the date and
hour of tow, location towed from, location towed to, reason for towing and the
name of the officer authorizing the tow. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
 
Notes
1 2. 625 ILCS 5/4-204.
6-7-5: RECORDS SEARCHES FOR OWNER:
   A.   Unknown Owner: When the police department does not know the identity of
the registered owner, lienholder or other legally entitled person, they will
cause the motor vehicle registration records of the state of Illinois to be
searched by a directed communication to the secretary of state for the purpose
of obtaining the required ownership information.
   B.   Search For Information 1 : The police department authorizing the
impoundment shall cause the stolen motor vehicle files of the Illinois state
police to be searched by a directed communication to the Illinois state police
for stolen or wanted information of the vehicle. The information determined
from these record searches shall be used by the police department in sending
notification by certified mail to the owner, lienholder or legally entitled
person advising where the vehicle is held, requesting a disposition to be made
and setting forth public sale information.
   C.   Identifying And Tracing Vehicle 2 : When the registered owner,
lienholder, or other person legally entitled to the possession of a motor
vehicle or other vehicle cannot be identified from the registration files of
this state or from the registration files of a foreign state, if applicable,
the police department shall notify the Illinois state police for the purpose of
identifying the vehicle's owner, lienholder, or other person legally entitled
to the possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by the Illinois
state police shall be immediately forwarded to the police department having
custody of the vehicle for notification purposes as set forth in subsection B
of this section. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/4-205.
2 2. 625 ILCS 5/4-206.
6-7-6: RECLAMATION OF VEHICLE 1 :
Any time before a motor vehicle or other vehicle is sold at public sale or
disposed of as provided in section
6-7-7 of this chapter, the owner, lienholder, or other person legally entitled
to its possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the police
department proof of ownership or proof of the right to possession of the
vehicle. No vehicle shall be released to the owner, lienholder, or other
legally entitled person under this section until all towing and storage charges
have been paid. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
 
Notes
1 3. 625 ILCS 5/4-207.
6-7-7: SALE OF VEHICLE:
   A.   Owner Known:
      1.   Sale Authorized: Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed
motor vehicle or other vehicle seven (7) years of age or newer remains
unclaimed by the registered owner, lienholder, or other person legally entitled
to its possession for a period of thirty (30) days after notice has been given
as provided herein, the police department having possession of the vehicle
shall cause it to be sold at public auction to a person licensed as an
automatic parts recycler, rebuilder or scrap processor under 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes chapter 5.
      2.   Notices:
         a.   Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be posted in a
conspicuous place for at least ten (10) days prior to the sale on the premises
where the vehicle has been impounded.
         b.   At least ten (10) days prior to the sale, the police department
shall cause a notice of the time and place to be sent by certified mail to the
registered owner, lienholder, or other person known by the police department or
towing service to be legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle. Such
notice shall contain a complete description of the vehicle to be sold and what
steps must be taken by any legally entitled person to reclaim the vehicle.
         c.   In those instances where the certified notification specified
herein has been returned by the postal authorities to the police department due
to the addressee having moved or being unknown at the address obtained from the
registration records of this state, the sending of a second certified notice
shall not be required.
   B.   Owner Unknown 1 : When the identity of the registered owner,
lienholder, or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
lost, or unclaimed vehicle of seven (7) years of age or newer cannot be
determined by any means provided in this chapter, the vehicle may be sold as
provided in this section without notice to any person whose identity cannot be
determined. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/4-209.
6-7-8: OLDER VEHICLES 1 :
   A.   When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven (7) years of age is
impounded as specified by this chapter, it shall be kept in custody for a
minimum of ten (10) days for the purpose of determining the identity of the
registered owner and lienholder and contacting the registered owner and
lienholder by the U.S. mail, public service or in person for a determination of
disposition; and an examination of the Illinois state police stolen motor
vehicle files for theft and wanted information. (At the expiration of the 10
day period without the benefit of disposition information being received from
the registered owner, lienholder or other legally entitled person, the chief of
police shall authorize the disposal of the vehicle as junk.)
   B.   A vehicle classified as an antique vehicle may, however, be sold to a
person desiring to restore it. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
 
Notes
1 2. 625 ILCS 5/4-209.
6-7-9: RECORDS KEPT 1 :
When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in the custody of the police department
is reclaimed by the registered owner, lienholder, or other legally entitled
person or when the vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise disposed of as
provided in this chapter, a report of the transaction shall be maintained by
the police department for a period of one year from the date of the sale or
disposal. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/4-210.
6-7-10: DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS 1 :
When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of the village is authorized
to be towed away by the police department and disposed of as set forth in this
chapter, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition, after the deduction of
towing, storage and processing charges, shall be deposited in the municipal
treasury. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
 
Notes
1 2. 625 ILCS 5/4-211.
6-7-11: NONLIABILITY OF VILLAGE OR TOWING SERVICE 1 :
A law enforcement officer or agency or towing service owner, operator or
employee shall not be held to answer or be liable for damages in any action
brought by the registered owner, former registered owner or his legal
representative, lienholder, or any other person legally entitled to the
possession of a vehicle when the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of
as provided by this chapter. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
 
Notes
1 3. 625 ILCS 5/4-213.
6-7-12: PENALTIES 1 :
Any person who violates or aids and abets in the violation of this chapter,
upon conviction, shall be fined not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and shall be required by the
court to make a disposition on the abandoned or unclaimed vehicle and pay all
towing and storage charges pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. MVC05-01, 6-8-2005)
 
Notes
1 4. 625 ILCS 5/4-214.
CHAPTER 8
GOLF CARTS
SECTION:
6-8-1: Generally
6-8-2: Definitions
6-8-3: Requirements
6-8-4: Permits
6-8-5: Violations
6-8-6: Miscellaneous
6-8-1: GENERALLY:
Golf carts, as defined and qualified herein shall be allowed on Village streets
under the conditions as stated herein. (Ord. 2015-004, 5-13-2015)
6-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
GOLF CART: A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purposes of
transporting one or more persons and their golf clubs or maintenance equipment
while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising the play of golf or
maintaining the condition of the grounds on a public or private golf course.
VILLAGE STREETS: Any of the streets within the boundaries of the Village. (Ord.
2015-004, 5-13-2015)
6-8-3: REQUIREMENTS:
All persons wishing to operate a golf cart on the Village streets must ensure
compliance with the following requirements:
   A.   Proof of current liability insurance.
   B.   Must be certified with the Village and have the vehicles certified with
the Village by inspection by the Police Chief or designated representative.
   C.   Must display Village decal on the vehicle.
   D.   Must have a current, valid Illinois drivers license or a valid out-of-
state drivers license issued in their name.
   E.   Golf carts must be equipped as follows:
      1.   Horn;
      2.   Brakes and brake lights;
      3.   Turn signals;
      4.   A steering wheel apparatus;
      5.   Tires;
      6.   Rear view mirror;
      7.   Headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of five
hundred feet (500') to the front which must illuminate when in operation;
      8.   Tail lamp that emits a red light visible from at least one hundred
feet (100') from the rear which must be illuminated when in operation;
      9.   Approved "Slow Moving Vehicle" emblem on the rear of the vehicle 1 ;
   F.   Must obey all traffic laws of the State of Illinois and the Village of
Divernon.
   G.   Must be operated only on the Village streets, except where prohibited.
   H.   May not be operated on "Brown Street", First Street from Brown Street
South to Dodds Street also the frontage road (N. Reichert Road) from Brown
Street to Village limit, except at specifically designated crossing points as
directed by the Police Chief.
   I.   May only be operated between sunrise and sunset.
   J.   A person operating or who is in actual physical control of a golf cart
as described herein on a roadway while under the influence is subject to
section 11-500 through 11-502 of the Illinois Compiled Statutes 2 .
   K.   Golf carts shall not be operated on sidewalks or in the Village Square
other than parking areas.
   L.   Golf carts may not be operated on streets and highways and roads under
the jurisdiction of the Illinois Department of Transportation or the County
Highway Department except to cross at designated streets.
   M.   Golf carts may not be operated on Village streets when rain, snow, fog
or other atmospheric conditions hinder safe operations.
   N.   The golf cart operator or passengers, may not tow a trailer, carts or
other similar items.
   O.   The operator and all passengers shall be seated when the "golf cart" is
in operation. (Ord. 2015-004, 5-13-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/12-709.
2 2. 625 ILCS 5/11-500 - 11-502.
6-8-4: PERMITS:
   A.   No person shall operate a qualified golf cart without first obtaining a
permit from the Village Chief of Police as provided herein. Permits shall be
granted for the current calendar year, January 1 through December 31 and
renewed annually. The cost of the permit is thirty dollars ($30.00). Insurance
coverage is to be verified to be in effect by the Police Department when
obtaining and renewing a permit.
   B.   Every application for a permit shall be made on a form supplied by the
Village and shall contain the following information:
      1.   Name and address of applicant;
      2.   Name of liability insurance carrier;
      3.   The serial number, make, model and description of golf cart;
      4.   Signed Waiver of Liability by applicant releasing the Village and
agreeing to indemnify and hold the Village harmless from any and all future
claims resulting from the operation of their golf cart on the Village streets;
      5.   Photocopy of applicable liability insurance coverage card
specifically for the vehicle to be operated pursuant to the permit;
      6.   Such other information as the Village may require.
   C.   No permit shall be granted unless the following conditions are met:
      1.   The vehicle must be inspected by the Chief of Police (or designee)
to ensure that the vehicle is safe to operate on Village street and is in
compliance with this chapter and with the State of Illinois Motor Vehicle Code;
      2.   A physically handicapped applicant must submit a certificate signed
by the physician, certifying that the applicant is able to safely operate a
qualified golf cart on Village streets;
      3.   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance in compliance with
the provisions of the Illinois Statutes regarding minimum liability insurance
for passenger motor vehicles to be operated on the roads of the State of
Illinois.
   D.   The Village may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder upon a
finding that the holder thereof has violated any provision of this chapter or
there is evidence that he/she cannot safely operate a qualified golf cart on
the designated roadways.
   E.   Permits, when issued, only allow the listed applicant to operate the
golf cart identified upon the application for said permit.
   F.   Permits, when issued, constitute a license to operate the golf cart
identified in the permit, and do not confer any property or liberty interest
upon any person.
(Ord. 2015-004, 5-13-2015; amd. Ord. 2024-009, 9-25-2024)
6-8-5: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a petty misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not less than
seventy-five dollars ($75.00) and not more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). Any second or subsequent offense shall result in the revocation of
the permit for a period of twelve (12) months. To the extent that any violation
of this chapter also constitutes a violation of a criminal statute of the State
of Illinois, then the violator shall also be subject to criminal prosecution.
   B.   If a permit issued pursuant to this Chapter is revoked pursuant to this
Chapter, then the revocation shall cause the golf cart identified in the
corresponding permit application to be ineligible for registration by any
person, for any period outlined in this Chapter.
   C.   Any revocation issued pursuant to this Section may be rescinded or
otherwise excused prior to the expiration of any such period of revocation upon
a majority vote of the Village Board of Trustees at any regularly scheduled
meeting where said vote is listed upon the agenda for that meeting in a manner
that conforms with the Illinois Open Meetings Act.
   D.   To the extent that any violation of this chapter also constitutes a
violation of a criminal statute of the State of Illinois, then the violator
shall also be subject to criminal prosecution.
(Ord. 2015-004, 5-13-2015; amd. Ord. 2024-009, 9-25-2024)
6-8-6: MISCELLANEOUS:
   A.   No action by the Village under this Chapter or under Section 11-1426.1
of the Illinois Vehicle Code designates the operation of a golf cart as an
intended or permitted use of the roadway or any specific property with respect
to Section 3-102 of the Local Governmental and Governmental Employees Tort
Immunity Act.
   B.   In the event that a court of competent jurisdiction declares any
particular provision of this chapter to be invalid or unenforceable, the
remaining provisions of this chapter shall be construed to be valid and
enforceable. The invalidity of any part of this chapter shall not affect any
part or parts thereof.
   C.   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after passage
and approval as provided by law.
   D.   Any chapter, or portion thereof, of the Village which is contrary to
this chapter shall be deemed to be repealed.
(Ord. 2015-004, 5-13-2015; amd. Ord. 2024-009, 9-25-2024)
CHAPTER 9
ADMINISTRATIVE TOWING
SECTION:
6-9-1: General
6-9-2: Offenses For Which Fees Are Imposed
6-9-3: Provisions Governing Fees
6-9-4: Opportunity For Hearing
6-9-5: Notice
6-9-6: Notice Of Hearing
6-9-7: Administrative Hearing Requirements
6-9-8: Acquittal Of Charges
6-9-1: GENERAL:
The Village of Divernon ("Village") hereby institutes procedures for the
release of properly impounded vehicles and provides for the imposition of a
reasonable administrative fee related to its administrative and processing
costs associated with the investigation, arrest, and detention of an offender,
or the removal, impoundment, storage, and release of the vehicle. The
administrative fee imposed by the Village is in addition to any fees charged
for the towing and storage of an impounded vehicle. The administrative fee
shall be waived by the Village upon verifiable proof that the vehicle was
stolen at the time the vehicle was impounded.
6-9-2: OFFENSES FOR WHICH FEES ARE IMPOSED:
The Police Department may impound vehicles and cause vehicles to be towed, and
an administrative fee in the amount of $250.00 is hereby imposed for the
release of properly impounded vehicles, for the following violations:
   A.   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs, an
intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof, in violation of
§ 11-501 of the Illinois Vehicle Code;
   B.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, a felony or in violation of the Cannabis Control Act;
   C.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act;
   D.   Driving while a driver's license, permit, or privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to § 6-303 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code; except that vehicles shall not be subjected to seizure or
impoundment if the suspension is for an unpaid citation (parking or moving) or
due to failure to comply with emission testing:
   E.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing, or
attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or a controlled substance, as defined
by the Cannabis Control Act or the Illinois Controlled Substances Act:
   F.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a
driver's license or permit, in violation of § 6-101 of the Illinois Vehicle
Code, or operating a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a driver's
license or permit due to a person's age;
   G.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a warrant
has been issued by a circuit clerk in Illinois for failing to answer charges
that the driver violated § 6-101, 6-303, or 11-501 of the Illinois Vehicle
Code;
   H.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, any felony offense in violation of the Criminal Code of 1961
or the Criminal Code of 2012.
   I.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and
forfeited pursuant to § 36-1 of the Criminal Code of 2012;
   J.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of § 24-1, 24-1.5, or 24-3.1 of the
Criminal Code of 1961 or the Criminal Code of 2012;
   K.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver's license,
in violation of § 6-101 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, if the period of
expiration is greater than one year;
   L.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of Article 16 or 16A of the Criminal
Code of 1961 or the Criminal Code of 2012. (Ord. 2021-001, 1-13-2021)
6-9-3: PROVISIONS GOVERNING FEES:
The following shall apply to the fees imposed pursuant to §
6-9-2:
   A.   All administrative fees and towing and storage charges shall be imposed
on the registered owner of the motor vehicle or the agents of that owner.
   B.   The fees shall be in addition to:
      1.   Any other penalties that may be assessed by a court of law for the
underlying violations; and
      2.   Any towing or storage fees, or both, charged by the towing company.
   C.   The fees shall be collected by and paid to the Village Treasurer at the
Village Utility Office.
   D.   The towing or storage fees, or both, shall be collected by and paid to
the person, firm, or entity that tows and stores the impounded vehicle. (Ord.
2021-001, 1-13-2021)
6-9-4: OPPORTUNITY FOR HEARING:
The registered owner of the motor vehicle or the agents of that owner shall
have the opportunity for a hearing pursuant to § 11-208.3(b)(4) of the Motor
Vehicle Code. Hearings under this section shall be conducted by a Hearing
Officer in accordance with the procedures set forth in Title I Chapter 10 of
this Code of Ordinances. (Ord. 2021-001, 1-13-2021)
6-9-5: NOTICE:
   A.   Whenever a police officer has cause to believe that a motor vehicle is
subject to impoundment, the officer shall provide for the towing of the vehicle
to a facility authorized by the Village.
   B.   At the time the vehicle is towed, the Village shall notify or make a
reasonable attempt to notify the owner, lessee or person identifying himself or
herself as the owner or lessee of the vehicle, or any person who is found to be
in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged offense, of the fact of
the seizure, and of the vehicle owner's or lessee's right to an administrative
hearing.
   C.   The Village shall also provide notice that the motor vehicle will
remain impounded pending the completion of an administrative hearing, unless
the owner or lessee of the vehicle or a lienholder either:
      1.   Pays the administrative fee in full with all towing and storage
charges; or
      2.   Posts with the Village a bond equal to the administrative fee and
all towing and storage charges.
   D.   The person paying the administrative fee may waive in writing the right
to administrative hearing at the time the administrative fee is paid. (Ord.
2021-001, 1-13-2021)
6-9-6: NOTICE OF HEARING:
Unless waived in writing at the time the administrative towing fee is paid, the
registered owner or lessee of the vehicle and any lienholder of record shall be
provided with a notice of hearing. The notice shall:
   A.   Be served upon the owner, lessee, and any lienholder of record either
by personal service or by first class mail to the interested party's address as
registered with the Secretary of State;
   B.   Be served upon interested parties within ten days after a vehicle is
impounded by the Village; and
   C.   Contain the date, time and location of the administrative hearing. An
initial hearing shall be convened no later than 45 days after the date of the
mailing of the notice of hearing. (Ord. 2021-001, 1-13-2021)
6-9-7: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Administrative hearings shall be conducted by the Hearing Officer
generally in accordance with the procedures set forth in Title 1, Chapter 10 of
this Code of Ordinances.
   B.   At the conclusion of the administrative hearing, the Hearing Officer
shall issue a written decision either sustaining or overruling the vehicle
impoundment based on a determination of whether the officer had probable cause
to impound the vehicle.
   C.   If the basis for the vehicle impoundment is sustained by the Hearing
Officer, any administrative fee bond posted to secure the release of the
vehicle shall be forfeited to the Village.
   D.   All final decisions of the Hearing Officer shall be subject to review
under the provisions of the Administrative Review Law.
   E.   Unless the Hearing Officer overturns the basis for the vehicle
impoundment no vehicle shall be released to the owner, lessee, or lienholder of
record until all administrative fees and towing and storage charges are paid.
(Ord. 2021-001, 1-13-2021)
6-9-8: ACQUITTAL OF CHARGES:
If the person whose arrest formed the basis for the administrative tow is
acquitted of all charges, the administrative fee shall be returned to the
person upon presentation by such person to the Chief of Police of evidence of
acquittal, such as a judgment or finding or verdict of "Not Guilty." Upon
presentation of such evidence, the Chief of Police shall notify the Treasurer,
who shall return the funds. (Ord. 2021-001, 1-13-2021)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Supervision
7-1-2: Street And Sidewalk Construction
7-1-3: Repairs And Defects
7-1-4: Barricades
7-1-5: Equipment
7-1-6: Street And Sidewalk Openings
7-1-7: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
7-1-8: Deposits On Streets And Sidewalks
7-1-9: Trees And Shrubs
7-1-10: Penalty
7-1-11:    House Numbers On All Buildings
7-1-1: SUPERVISION:
All public streets, alleys, sidewalks and other public ways shall be under the
supervision of the superintendent of public works or his authorized
representative. He shall have supervision over all work thereon and the
cleaning thereof and shall be charged with the enforcement of all ordinance
provisions relating to such public places (except traffic ordinances) and is
hereby authorized to enforce such ordinances. (1997 Code)
7-1-2: STREET AND SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to construct or lay any pavement
on any public street, sidewalk, alley or other public way, or to repair the
same or to construct or change any culverts, drains, or ditches within the
right of way of the village, without having first secured a permit therefor.
Applications for such permits shall be made to the superintendent of public
works and shall state the location of the intended pavement or repair, the
extent thereof and the person who is to do the actual construction work. No
such permit shall be issued, except on order of the president and board of
trustees. (Ord., 7-12-1989; amd. 1997 Code)
   B.   Bond And Insurance:
      1.   Bond: Each applicant shall file a bond in the amount of ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) with sureties to be approved by the superintendent of
public works conditioned to indemnify the village from any loss or damage
resulting from the work undertaken or the manner of doing the same.
      2.   Insurance: Each applicant shall further provide evidence of
insurance to the village; said certificate of insurance to name the village as
an additional party insured and be sufficient to cover all contract work to be
performed by the general contractor and any subcontractor and shall be in the
following amounts:
         a.   Comprehensive general liability insurance for each occurrence in
the sum of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) and aggregate in the sum
of three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00).
         b.   Property damage in the amount of one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) for each occurrence.
         c.   Comprehensive automobile liability insurance in the amount of one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for bodily injury each occurrence and
three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for bodily injury aggregate and
one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) property damage for each occurrence.
         d.   Excess umbrella liability in the amount of one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) to cover claims exceeding the above principal coverages;
providing, that such excess umbrella coverage shall not be required if the
amounts of the comprehensive general liability insurance and the comprehensive
automobile liability insurance as set forth in subsections B2a and B2c of this
section are increased to the sum of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00)
for each occurrence and an aggregate sum of one million dollars
($1,000,000.00).
         e.   Workers' compensation.
         f.   Employer's liability of one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) each accident.
   C.   Specifications: All street and sidewalk pavement shall be made in
conformity with the specifications laid down by the president and board of
trustees. (1997 Code)
7-1-3: REPAIRS AND DEFECTS:
   A.   Repairs: All public street, alley and sidewalk pavements shall be in
good repair. Such repair work, whether done by the village or the abutting
owner, shall be under the supervision of the superintendent of public works.
   B.   Defects: It shall be the duty of every village officer or employee
becoming cognizant of any defect in any street, alley or sidewalk, or any
obstruction thereof, to report the same to the superintendent of public works
or his authorized representative as soon as possible. (1997 Code)
7-1-4: BARRICADES:
   A.   Barricades Required:
      1.   Any person laying or repairing any pavement on a street, sidewalk or
other public place or making an excavation in the same shall maintain suitable
barricades to prevent injury of any person or vehicle by reason of the work;
such barricades shall be protected by suitable lights at nighttime.
      2.   Any defect in any such pavement shall be barricaded to prevent
injury, and any person properly maintaining any opening or excavation in any
such place shall guard such opening or excavation while the same remains open
by proper barricades and lights.
   B.   Disturbing Barricades: It shall be unlawful to disturb or interfere
with any barricade or lights lawfully placed to protect or mark any new
pavement or excavation or opening in any public street, alley or sidewalk.
(1997 Code)
7-1-5: EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Equipment Requirements:
      1.   Unsafe Vehicle: It is unlawful for any person to drive or move, or
for the owner to cause or knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any highway
any vehicle or combination of vehicles which is in an unsafe condition as to
endanger any person or property, or which does not contain those parts or is
not at all times equipped with the lamps and other equipment in proper
condition and adjustment as required in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-101
et seq., or which is equipped in any manner in violation of 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/12-101 et seq., or for any person to do any act forbidden
or fail to perform any act required under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-
101 et seq.
      2.   Exceptions: The provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-
101 et seq., with respect to equipment on vehicles shall not apply to
implements of husbandry, road machinery, road rollers, or farm tractors, or to
farm-wagon type trailers having a fertilizer spreader attachment permanently
mounted thereon, having a gross weight of not to exceed thirty six thousand
(36,000) pounds and used only for the transportation of bulk fertilizer, or to
farm-wagon type tank trailers of not to exceed two thousand (2,000) gallons'
capacity, used during the liquid fertilizer season as field storage nurse
tanks, supplying the fertilizer to a field applicator and only for bringing the
fertilizer to a field applicator from a local source of supply to the farm or
field or from one farm or field to another.
   B.   Size, Weight, And Load Regulations:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move on, upon, or across,
or for the owner to cause to knowingly permit to be driven or moved on, upon,
or across any highway, street, or alley any vehicle or vehicles of a size or
weight to exceed thirty six thousand (36,000) pounds, or otherwise in violation
of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-101 et seq.
      2.   The provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-101 et seq.,
governing size, weight, and load do not apply to fire apparatus or equipment
for snow and ice removal operations owned or operated by the village, or to
implements of husbandry temporarily operated or towed in a combination upon a
highway provided such combination does not consist of more than three (3)
vehicles or, in the case of hauling fresh, perishable fruits or vegetables from
farm to the point of first processing, not more than three (3) wagons being
towed by an implement of husbandry, or to a vehicle operated under the terms of
a special permit.
      3.   No person shall use the highways under the jurisdiction of the
village in violation of weight and location restrictions and commercial vehicle
restrictions established by the board of trustees.
   C.   Projecting Loads On Vehicles: No vehicle shall be operated on any
street with any load carried thereon extending beyond the line of the fenders
on the left side of the vehicle nor extending more than six inches (6") beyond
the line of the fenders on the right side thereof.
   D.   Protruding Members Of Vehicles: No vehicle with boom, arm, drill rig,
or other protruding component shall be operated upon the highway unless the
protruding component is fastened so as to prevent shifting, bouncing or moving
in any manner.
   E.   Spilling Loads Prohibited:
      1.   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street unless the vehicle
is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping,
shifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand may be
dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other substance may
be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining the roadway.
      2.   No person shall operate on any highway any vehicle with any load
unless the load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to prevent
the covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a hazard to
other users of the highway. (1997 Code)
7-1-6: STREET AND SIDEWALK OPENINGS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any
opening or stairway in any public street, alley, sidewalk or other public place
without a permit from the superintendent of public works.
   B.   Openings To Be Guarded: All such lawfully maintained openings shall be
guarded by a suitable strong cover or railing to the approval of the
superintendent of public works.
   C.   Leaving Cellar Door, Basement Entrance, Vault Open: No person shall
leave open or permit to be left open any cellar door, basement entrance, vault,
cistern, well, ditch, or other like pit or hole, on or adjoining any street,
alley, sidewalk, or other public ground, or on any private property accessible
by pedestrians, without securing or protecting the same, so as not to endanger
the safety of persons or animals passing thereby from falling therein. Such
person shall be liable for all damages or injuries to persons or property
arising from any such neglect, and for any damage that may be recovered against
the village in consequence thereof. (1997 Code)
7-1-7: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Injury To Pavements: It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any
vehicle or animal upon or injure any newly laid street or alley pavement while
the same is guarded by a warning sign or barricade or to knowingly injure any
street, sidewalk or alley pavement.
   B.   Obstructions: It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, create or
maintain any obstruction of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way,
except as may be specifically authorized by ordinance or by the superintendent
of public works.
   C.   Encroachments: It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any building
or structure which encroaches upon any public street or property.
   D.   Drains: It shall be unlawful to obstruct any drain in any public street
or alley. (1997 Code)
7-1-8: DEPOSITS ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Streets: It shall be unlawful to deposit on any street any material
which may be harmful to the pavement thereof or any waste material or any glass
or other articles which may cause injury to any person, animal or property.
Aggregate or other materials may be deposited in streets preparatory to
delivery for use; provided, that such deposit does not reduce the usable width
of the street or roadway at that point to less than eighteen feet (18'); and
provided, that such material other than material used in actual building
construction shall not be permitted to remain in such street for more than
three (3) hours. Any such material shall be guarded by lights if the same
remains upon a street after nighttime.
   B.   Sidewalks: It shall be unlawful to deposit on any public sidewalk any
material which may be harmful to the pavement thereof or any waste material or
any glass or other articles which might cause injury to persons, animals or
property. Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on sidewalks
preparatory to delivery; provided, that the usable width of the sidewalk is not
thereby reduced to less than four feet (4'); and provided, that no such article
shall remain for more than one-half (1/2) hour. (1997 Code)
7-1-9: TREES AND SHRUBS:
   A.   Property Of Village: All trees, shrubs or other growing vegetation,
growing upon the streets, alleys or other public thoroughfares of the village
shall be and it is hereby ordained that they are the property of the village,
and such rules for the care of same as shall be made from time to time by the
president and board of trustees shall be the rules of government and care of
said trees, shrubs and other growing vegetation.
   B.   Village Board Control: All trees, shrubs or other growing vegetation
adjacent to the streets, alleys or other public thoroughfares of the village,
while not the property of the village, shall be under the care and control of
the president and board of trustees, and the rules for the care of same shall
be applied as in this section provided.
   C.   Interference With Wires; Removal Or Trimming: Whenever any such trees,
shrubs or other growing vegetation shall in any way interfere with wires, poles
or other equipment of any telephone, telegraph, electric line or other public
utility wires or equipment, the same may be ordered removed or trimmed to such
height, or will be placed in such condition so that it will cease to be an
interference to the equipment aforesaid.
   D.   Abatement Procedure: If at any time any person shall be injured or have
cause to have such trees, shrubs or other growing vegetation removed, trimmed
or otherwise altered, the procedure for abatement of nuisances, as provided for
in title 4, chapter 2 of this code, shall be followed. (Ord., 6-19-1916; amd.
1997 Code)
7-1-10: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
the penalty provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1997 Code)
7-1-11: HOUSE NUMBERS ON ALL BUILDINGS 1 :
The Village hereby adopts the present standards for all residential and
commercial building codes as follows:
   A.   All lots, building and structures in the Village shall be numbered in
accordance with the plan formulated therefor, approved by the Village Board.
   B.   The Village shall keep a chart showing the proper street number of
every lot in the Village, which chart shall be open to inspection by any
interested person.
   C.   It shall be the duty of the owner and occupant of every building in the
Village to have placed thereon in a place clearly visible from the street,
figures at least four (4) inches high showing the number of the building. (Ord.
2020-002, 7-8-2020)
 
Notes
1 1 Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. § 11-80-18.
CHAPTER 2
WATER AND SEWER USE AND SERVICE; UTILITIES
SECTION:
7-2-1: Utilities Division Created; Enforcement
7-2-2: Definitions
7-2-3: Applicable Codes And Regulations
7-2-4: Cross Connection Control
7-2-5: Use Of Public Sewers Required
7-2-6: Water Mains
7-2-7: Connection To Utility Main Required
7-2-8: Supplying Other Premises
7-2-9: Service Connection Permit Procedure
7-2-10: Connection Design Criteria
7-2-11: Installation And Maintenance Of Service Pipes
7-2-12: Utility Meters; Installation And Maintenance
7-2-13: Access To Premises
7-2-14: Access To Meter And Remote Reader
7-2-15: Utilities Accounts
7-2-16: Interruption Of Natural Gas Service
7-2-17: Unauthorized Activity
7-2-18: Interference Prohibited
7-2-19: Waiver Of Liability
7-2-20: Conservation Of Water
7-2-21: Authority Of Village
7-2-22: Damages; Owner Liability
7-2-23: Penalty
7-2-1: UTILITIES DIVISION CREATED; ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Creation: There is hereby created a municipal utilities division,
consisting of such employees as may be assigned by the president and board of
trustees.
   B.   Enforcement Of Regulations: The superintendent of public works and/or
his designee shall be charged with, and be responsible for, the enforcement of
all regulations relating to the utility system. (1997 Code)
7-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BOARD: The board of trustees of the village of Divernon.
CURB STOP: A valve installed at the end of a water service connection with a
riser pipe to give access to the valve from ground level. The curb stop is used
by village employees to turn a water service on or off.
EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
GAS SERVICE CONNECTIONS: Service lines extending from the gas main to and
including a shutoff valve at the gas meter.
IEPA: The Illinois environmental protection agency.
MUNICIPAL UTILITIES: The municipal utilities division of the village of
Divernon.
SHALL: Shall is mandatory.
VILLAGE: The corporate authority of the village of Divernon and its officers,
employees and agents.
VILLAGE ENGINEER: The village engineer of the village of Divernon.
VILLAGE LIMITS: The corporate boundaries of the village of Divernon.
VILLAGE PRESIDENT: The president of the village of Divernon.
VILLAGE TREASURER: The treasurer of the village of Divernon.
WATER AND GAS METERS: Devices used to measure the quantity of water or gas
flowing through a service extension.
WATER SERVICE CONNECTION: Consists of a service pipe extending from the water
main to and including a shutoff valve or curb stop. (1997 Code)
7-2-3: APPLICABLE CODES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   State Regulations: All plumbing installed within the village shall be
installed in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code, 77 Illinois
administrative code 890.
   B.   Building Codes: See title 8, chapter 1 of this code for adoption of
building codes.
   C.   Local Regulations: All ordinances and amendments on record at the
village hall including, but not limited to, those which establish the operation
of systems, technical specifications, definitions, or other operation
conditions or restraints, rates, deposits, fees, collections, meter reading
dates, delinquent accounts, liens, payment plans, accounting procedures, bond
payment and reserves or other regulations and policies of the utility system
are adopted by reference and made part of this chapter with the same force and
effect as though set forth herein verbatim. (1997 Code)
7-2-4: CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL:
   A.   Backflow Prevention Device Required: If in accordance with the Illinois
plumbing code or in the judgment of the superintendent of public works, an
approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public
water supply system, the superintendent of public works will give notice to the
water customer to install such an approved device at a location and in a manner
in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code, Illinois environmental
protection agency and all applicable local regulations, and shall have
inspections and tests made of such approved devices upon installation and as
required by the Illinois plumbing code, Illinois environmental protection
agency and local regulations.
   B.   Connection Of Private Water Supply: No person shall establish or permit
to be established or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby
a private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the village may enter the supply or distribution system of the
village, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
superintendent of public works and the Illinois environmental protection
agency.
   C.   Investigation Of Properties: It shall be the duty of the superintendent
of public works to cause surveys and investigations to be made of commercial,
industrial and other properties served by the public water supply to determine
whether actual or potential hazards to the public water supply may exist. Such
surveys and investigation shall be made a matter of public record and shall be
repeated at least every two (2) years, or as often as the superintendent of
public works shall deem necessary. Records of such survey shall be maintained
and available for review for a period of at least five (5) years.
   D.   Right Of Entry: The approved cross connection control device inspector
shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a
connection to the public water supply or distribution system of the village for
the purpose of verifying the presence or absence of cross connections, and that
the superintendent of public works or his authorized agent shall have the right
to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the
public water supply or distribution system of the village for the purpose of
verifying information submitted by the customer regarding the required cross
connection control inspection. On demand, the owner, lessee or occupant of any
property so served shall furnish to the superintendent of public works any
information which he may request regarding the piping system or systems or
water use on such property. The refusal of such information, when demanded,
shall, within the discretion of the superintendent of public works, be deemed
evidence of the presence of improper connections as provided in this section.
   E.   Termination Of Service For Violation Of Section: The superintendent of
public works is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue, after reasonable
notice of the occupants thereof, the water service to any property wherein any
connection in violation of the provisions of this section is known to exist,
and to take such other precautionary measures as he may deem necessary to
eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water system distribution
mains. Water service to such property shall not be restored until such
conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the provisions
of this section. Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected
when the superintendent of public works is assured that imminent danger of
harmful contamination of the public water system exists. Such action shall be
followed by written notification of the cause of disconnection. Immediate
disconnection without notice to any party can be effected to prevent actual or
anticipated contamination or pollution of the public water supply; provided,
that in the reasonable opinion of the superintendent of public works or the
Illinois environmental protection agency, such action is required to prevent
actual or potential contamination or pollution of the public water supply.
Neither the public water supply, the superintendent of public works, or its
agents or assigns shall be liable to any customer for any injury, damages or
lost revenues which may result from termination of said customer's water supply
in accordance with the terms of this section, whether or not said termination
was with or without notice.
   F.   Liability For Cost Of Cleanup: The consumer responsible for back
siphoned or back pressured material or contamination through backflow, if
contamination of the potable water supply system occurs through an illegal
cross connection or an improperly installed, maintained or repaired device, or
a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of cleanup of the potable
water supply system. (Ord., 5-23-1990; amd. 1997 Code)
7-2-5: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Prohibited Deposits: It shall be unlawful for any person to place,
deposit or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private
property within the village or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
village, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   B.   Prohibited Discharge: It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural
outlet within the village or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village,
any sewage or other polluted waters.
   C.   Privy Vaults, Cesspools, Septic Tanks Prohibited: Except as hereinafter
provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
sewage.
   D.   Connection Required: The owner of all houses, buildings or properties
used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated
within the village and abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which
there is now located or may in the future be located any public sanitary or
combined sewer of the village, is hereby required at his/her sole cost to
install suitable toilet facilities therein and to connect such facilities
directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter and any other applicable ordinances of the village, within ninety (90)
days after date of official notice to do so; provided, that a public sanitary
sewer line is within two hundred feet (200') of the property line. (1997 Code)
7-2-6: WATER MAINS:
No utility main dedicated or to be dedicated to the village shall be built,
laid or extended, except upon approval by the village president and board,
directing the laying or extension of such main or pipe, fixing the location
thereof, the size to be used and, if applicable, the method of financing the
cost of the same. (1997 Code)
7-2-7: CONNECTION TO UTILITY MAIN REQUIRED:
All existing buildings on property in the village which are within two hundred
feet (200') of a village utility main shall be connected thereto within one
year after notification to connect by the village board unless, in the sole
determination of the village board, there is insufficient transmission capacity
in the village utility distribution and collection system to properly meet the
needs of the proposed usage or if the proposed usage is such that allowing the
connection would impair the distribution or collection system capacity to other
parts of the village. At such time as village utility mains are extended to a
point adjacent to properties within the village limits not served by the
village utility system, said properties shall connect to the village utility
system within one year after date of official notice to do so. (1997 Code)
7-2-8: SUPPLYING OTHER PREMISES:
No persons receiving utilities through the water or gas system of the village
shall supply water or gas to other persons or premises unless a permit to do so
has been applied for and obtained from the superintendent of public works.
(1997 Code)
7-2-9: SERVICE CONNECTION PERMIT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Application; Fees:
      1.   Classes Of Permit; Required Information: Any person desiring to make
any connection with the utility system of the village, or to use the utilities
therefrom, shall first make application to the village upon such form as may be
furnished for that purpose. There shall be two (2) classes of building utility
connection permits: a) for residential connection (including multi-family
structures); and b) for commercial, institutional/governmental or industrial
connection. Each applicant shall state, among other things:
         a.   The location for the premises for which such service is sought.
         b.   The type of improvement thereon.
         c.   The purposes for which the utilities are to be used.
         d.   The size of the water, sewer and gas service lines requested.
         e.   The size of the water or gas meter needed for the proposed
service.
         f.   The number of water or gas meters that will be required for the
service.
         g.   The method of metering usage pursuant to this chapter.
      2.   Fees 1 : The village will calculate the fees required for such
connections, including tap-on fees, water meter charges and any other
applicable fee or charges. These fees must be paid before a permit will be
issued. The application for connection must be submitted a minimum of forty
eight (48) hours prior to the proposed connection.
   B.   Liability For Costs: All costs and expenses incident to the
installation and connection of the building utility service connection and
extension shall be borne by the owner of the premises being served. The owner
of the premises being served shall indemnify the village from any loss, claims,
liability or damage that may be directly or indirectly occasioned by the
installation of the building utility service connection and extension.
   C.   Right To Refuse Service: The village reserves the right to refuse
connection if, in its sole determination, there is insufficient transmission
capacity in the village utility distribution system to properly meet the needs
of the proposed usage or if the proposed usage is such that allowing the
connection would impair the distribution system transmission capacity to other
parts of the village. (1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 7-2-15A1 of this chapter.
7-2-10: CONNECTION DESIGN CRITERIA:
   A.   Water And Gas Connections:
      1.   All connections to the village utilities proposed for any purpose
shall be reviewed and approved by the village prior to construction. This work
will be performed by and at the expense of the owner of the premises being
served and includes the tapping of the mains, insertion of a corporation cock,
installation of water or gas service connection from the corporation cock to
the curb stop and providing materials necessary for such work.
      2.   A separate and independent building utility service extension shall
be provided for every building.
   B.   Application For Water And Gas Service: Water and gas supply lines shall
be turned on at the connection point only by authorized village employees and
only if the following conditions have been met:
      1.   No service shall be turned on until the meter charges and any other
fees owed to the village have been paid.
      2.   No utility shall be turned on for service in any premises in which
the plumbing does not comply with the provisions of the plumbing regulations of
the village. Water may be turned on for construction uses in unfinished
buildings subject to the provisions of these regulations.
      3.   No individual, contractor, corporation or other entity shall be
eligible to have any utility turned on for any use whatsoever, if at the time
of application, it has any outstanding indebtedness for past water use.
      4.   No utility service shall be turned on until the utility service
extension has been inspected and approved by the superintendent and a meter has
been installed.
   C.   Proximity Of Water Extensions To Sewer Lines: Sanitary sewer and water
service extension shall comply with all governmental regulations. (1997 Code)
7-2-11: INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE PIPES:
   A.   Entrance Of Connections, Extensions Into Buildings: All utility service
connections or extensions shall be laid in streets, alleys or public grounds
adjacent to the premises so as to enter the building to be served by the most
direct route from the main.
   B.   Persons Authorized To Make Utility Connections: All service connections
shall be supervised by the village.
   C.   Installation:
      1.   Water And Sewer: Water and sewer service extensions shall be
installed by a licensed plumber at the sole expense of the owner of the
premises being served. The licensed plumber shall, among other things, have
filed with the village a certificate of insurance, in an amount acceptable to
the village, which names the village as an additional named insured. The
village shall be indemnified by such plumber and the property owner from any
loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be caused by such installation.
The connection shall be made in the presence of the authorized village
representative.
      2.   Gas: All gas service connections, extensions, meter placements and
installations shall be constructed and maintained by village employees or
contractors approved by the board of trustees and under the supervision of the
superintendent of public works.
   D.   Guarding Excavations: All excavations for a building water, gas or
sewer service connection shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights
in compliance with all applicable standards established for excavations by the
state of Illinois department of transportation so as to protect the public from
hazard.
   E.   Traffic Control Coordination: During any construction which will stop
or impede the normal flow of traffic of any right of way, the contractor or
property owner shall provide any necessary traffic control. The traffic control
shall be coordinated with the village police department.
   F.   Extensions To Be Inspected: Each service extension shall be inspected
prior to backfilling in the presence of an authorized village representative
and shall show no leakage under full water pressure. No extension shall be
covered until such inspection is completed and found satisfactory. When such
work has been approved, the trench or excavation shall be immediately refilled
with suitable material and properly compacted to prevent settling and the
flagging and sidewalk restored to as good a condition as previous to the
excavation. If said service extension is backfilled prior to inspection, the
village reserves the right to require the contractor to expose the entire
service extension for inspection before service may commence. A service
connection shall be air tested with one hundred (100) psi for fifteen (15)
minutes when temperature is at freezing or below.
   G.   Request For Inspection Of Service Connection: The village requires
twenty four (24) hours' advance notice before inspections can be given.
Inspections will not be made outside of the normal working hours of the utility
division. It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to ensure that
proper notice is given.
   H.   Restoration Of Public Property: If the installation of the new utility
service connection or water service extension requires the excavation of any
street, road, parkway or other publicly owned property, the property owner
shall apply for a permit for such excavation, pay fees and post bonds or other
security as required by the village. Such permit must be issued prior to any
excavation. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other publicly owned property
disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory
to the village. The village shall solely determine if the street should be open
cut or bored.
   I.   Maintenance Of Extensions: Water and sewer service extensions,
including the connection to the water or sewer service connection are the
property of and shall be maintained at the sole expense of the owner of the
property served.
   J.   Reconstruction Of Existing Connections: Where an existing property is
served by a water service connection extending past adjacent property, such
service connection shall be reconstructed at the expense of the owner of the
property served by such service connection within one year after the placing in
service of a village water or sewer main adjacent to said property or, if such
main already exists, within one year following the passage of this chapter.
   K.   Connection, Extensions To Adjoining Premises Prohibited: No consumer
will be permitted to construct a utility service connection or extension across
a lot to adjoining premises.
   L.   Repair Of Leaks Or Defects; Owner's Responsibility: Any leaks or
defects in water or sewer service extension shall be promptly repaired by and
at the sole cost of the property owner and water customer. If leaks develop in
an existing service extension not meeting the requirements of this chapter, it
shall be replaced in such a manner and with such materials as to meet the
requirements of the village.
   M.   Failure Of Owner To Repair: In case any leak in a water or utility
service extension is not promptly repaired, the water supply shall be shut off
by the village and not turned on again until such leak has been repaired and
any expense incurred by the village in connection therewith has been paid.
   N.   Compliance Required: All connections to the utility system of the
village, whether inside or outside the village corporate limits, shall be
subject to state, county and village rules and regulations. (1997 Code)
7-2-12: UTILITY METERS; INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Residential: Each residential dwelling unit shall have a separate water
or gas meter. The village reserves the right to determine the nature of the
installation and the location of meters to be installed and the same will be
determined by the village.
   B.   Governmental/Institutional, Commercial Or Industrial: In governmental/
institutional, commercial or industrial buildings with multiple units, the
meter installations shall conform to one of the following standards:
      1.   Individual Meters: Individual meters shall be installed in each
individual building unit. A separate service extension shall be installed for
each building unit, including an accessible service shutoff valve (B-box)
located outside the building. If this option is chosen, a separate village
utility billing will be issued for each individual unit.
      2.   Utility Meter Room:
         a.   In buildings with multiple units, one utility service extension
shall be installed for no more than twelve (12) individual units. The utility
service extension shall be of adequate size to provide proper pressure and
volume to each unit served. The water and gas service extension shall include
accessible single shutoff valves (B-box) located outside the building in the
parkway.
         b.   The water and gas meter room shall be constructed at the point
where the service extensions enter the building. The utility meter room shall
be used solely for this purpose and of adequate square footage to provide ample
room for the location, reading and servicing of all such water and gas meters.
Access to the water and gas meter room shall be secured and fully restricted so
that it shall be accessible from the outside with entry to such room restricted
to persons authorized to read and service such water and gas meters. A door key
for the water and gas meter room shall be held by the village municipal
utilities department for the purpose of entry to read and service water and gas
meters.
         c.   Branch plumbing shall be provided from the utility service
extension such that each unit is served by a separate utility service line from
the water and utility meter room. Each branch line shall be labeled as to which
line feeds which building unit. Each branch line shall include a meter and
couplings, an approved tamperproof/tamper resistant locking ball valve
installed on the inlet side of the meter, and a ball valve installed on the
outlet side of the meter. Space shall be provided for the installation of any
backflow prevention device that may need to be installed in the future.
      3.   Master Meter: One master water meter shall be installed in each
building, with branch plumbing to the individual units. If the master meter
option is chosen, the owner of the building shall be responsible for all
village utility billing.
   C.   Utility Meter Location: All utility meters shall be installed in a
location that will be readily accessible and have easy access for routine meter
reading and/or service or replacement. All existing installations which do not
comply with these provisions shall be changed at the property owner's or water
user's expense within thirty (30) days after the date of notice from the
village.
   D.   Supply And Maintenance Of Meters: Upon submittal of an application for
service, the property owner shall pay a meter charge based upon the size, type
and quantity of meters needed, and the village will supply and own said meters.
The village will maintain, at its own expense, residential and commercial
meters. The meter charge is the actual village cost for the meter plus fifteen
percent (15%). The village reserves the right to remove any meter when such
action is deemed in the best interest of the village.
   E.   Water Meter Installation Hardware:
      1.   Ball Valve: Two (2) full flow ball valves (Mueller series 300) shall
be provided by the village and shall be installed by a licensed plumber at the
expense of the property owner. Said valves are to be installed in the service
line, one immediately prior to the water meter yoke and within two feet (2') of
the point at which the water service extension enters the premises, and one
foot (1') immediately following the water meter yoke.
      2.   Water Meter: A water meter shall be provided by the village, after a
water meter fee has been paid by the property owner. In all cases, the village
shall specify the size and type of water meter to be installed. The water meter
is to be installed at the owner's cost by an authorized representative of the
village. The meter shall be installed in a horizontal position.
      3.   Water Meter Yoke: On water services with water meters up to and
including two inch (2") diameters, a water meter yoke (Mueller type H-1412)
shall be provided by the village. The water meter yoke shall be installed by a
licensed plumber, at the expense of the property owner; the water meter yoke
shall be installed immediately following the ball valve.
      4.   Bypass Required: All water meters larger than one inch (1") shall be
provided with a bypass to allow water to bypass the water meter during
maintenance activities. The valve on the bypass shall be equipped with a
locking device to prevent unauthorized operation of the valve and shall be
approved by the village.
      5.   Other Fittings: The village reserves the right to require such other
fittings and valves to be installed as the village deems necessary. Such
fittings may include, but are not limited to, locking ball valves, check valves
and backflow preventers. Said fittings shall be supplied by the property owner
and shall be of types approved by the village.
   F.   Maintenance Of Meter Installation: Should any part of the utility meter
installation hardware be found to be faulty, the village may require the
replacement of some or all of the hardware. All materials used in the
replacement of meter installation hardware shall conform to current
specifications for said hardware. With the exception of the meter costs, all
material and labor costs for said replacement shall be at the expense of the
property owner and/or utility customer.
   G.   Testing Meters: In case of dispute over the amount of a bill or over
the accuracy of a meter, the village will, at the request of the consumer, test
the meter. If it is found, upon such test, that the meter registers a greater
amount of water or gas than has actually passed through it, the bill will then
be adjusted to conform to the amount passing through the meter, and no charge
will be made for the test. If, however, the meter registers a lesser amount
than actually passes through it, the consumer will be required to pay, on the
basis of the amount passing through the meter, an additional charge of thirty
dollars ($30.00) to cover the cost of making the test. (1997 Code)
7-2-13: ACCESS TO PREMISES:
The village and its employees, including all utility meter inspectors, shall be
given ready access to the premises wherein utility meters are located for the
purpose of reading, examining, testing and repairing such meters and fixtures.
(1997 Code)
7-2-14: ACCESS TO METER AND REMOTE READER:
The property owner shall not obstruct access to the meter or remote reader of
any property served by the village utility supply. Property owners will be
required to permanently remove any such obstructions within a reasonable period
of time. (1997 Code)
7-2-15: UTILITIES ACCOUNTS:
   A.   User Rates Established: The current rates for use and service of the
water, sewer and natural gas customers of the village are as established by the
village board of trustees. (Per correspondence dated 2-28-2013)
      1.   New Customer Deposit: New customers will be required to make
deposits for services prior to connection of the utilities.
         a.   Deposits:
            (1)   Residential: Deposits required for residential property
services shall be as established by the village board of trustees. These
deposits shall be waived if the property is titled in the customer's name.
            (2)   Commercial: Deposits required for commercial property
services shall be as established by the Village Board of Trustees.
In the event that the prior average monthly charge exceeds fifty percent (50%)
of the charges, then the deposit shall be two (2) times the average monthly
cost.
         b.   Refund Of Deposits: The deposits shall be returned to the
customer as follows:
            (1)   Upon receipt of all outstanding payments due after
termination of services, or
            (2)   For commercial customers who hold title to the property
receiving services, upon completion of a twelve (12) consecutive month period
of on time payments to the Village. (Ord. 2014-001, 2-26-2014)
   B.   Due Date For Payment: All bills for utility services furnished by the
Village of Divernon shall be due and payable prior to twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight of the twentieth of the month in which the bill was sent; provided, if
the due date shall fall on a weekend or a legal holiday, then it shall be due
and payable by twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight of the following business day.
   C.   Late Fee And Penalty: A twenty dollar ($20.00) late fee will be added
to each bill not paid by twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on the twentieth as
required. All bills not paid by the twentieth day of the month will be
considered delinquent. (Ord. 2013-004, 7-10-2013)
   D.   Shutoff Of Services: All utility accounts must be paid in full for the
charges that apply specifically toward the current month. If payment has not
been received by the 27th of the month or if the due date shall fall on a
weekend, or a legal holiday, then it shall be due payable by twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight of the following business day. If no contact has been made
regarding the account, utility services will be shutoff unless prior
arrangements have been made with the Village Board.
   E.   Reconnection Of Service: When a service is disconnected, all usage and
penalties, including reconnect fees, must be paid prior to the service being
reconnected. There will be a fifty dollar ($50.00) reconnect fee for water
services, and there will be a fifty dollar ($50.00) reconnect fee for gas
services. The Village of Divernon will assess a fine of one hundred dollars
($100.00) should any customer reconnect a service, gas or water, after it has
been disconnected by Village personnel for nonpayment. (Ord. 2016-007, 8-24-
2016)
   F.   Leased Or Rented Property: All property owners who lease or rent a
property shall complete a form (DI:FRM 2002-01), which will instruct the
Village personnel on whether or not services will be disconnected should the
property become vacant. This form will also list the name, address, and phone
number of whom to call in matters of this type. Property owners will be
contacted when utilities are delinquent.
   G.   Insufficient Funds Check:
      1.   When the office manager/bookkeeper receives a returned insufficient
funds (NSF) check, or any other check not honored by the customer's financial
institution, the office manager/bookkeeper will make a reasonable attempt to
contact the customer and give twenty four (24) hours to make payment. A
cashier's check, money order, or cash will be accepted only during regular
business hours. If no payment is received, utility service will be shut off.
      2.   A service charge will be assessed to the account for all returned
checks, NSF or otherwise, and will include the amount currently charged by the
financial institution used by the Village. (Ord. 2013-004, 7-10-2013)
   H.   Identity Theft Prevention Program:
      1.   Adoption Of Program: The Identity Theft Prevention Program attached
to the ordinance codified herein is hereby adopted and approved by the Village
Board of Trustees.
      2.   Administration Of Program: The Identity Theft Prevention Program
shall be implemented and administered by the office manager as the Program
Administrator.
      3.   Changes To Program: Changes to the Identity Theft Prevention Program
of a day to day operational character and decisions relating to the
interpretation and implementation of the program may be made by the Program
Administrator, however, major changes or shifts of policy positions under the
program shall only be made by the Village Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2008-010,
10-22-2008)
7-2-16: INTERRUPTION OF NATURAL GAS SERVICE:
   A.   From time to time it may be necessary or desirable that natural gas
service be temporarily interrupted for maintenance, construction, repair,
emergencies or other purposes. During such periods, the gas utility assumes no
responsibility for resulting loss of heat, products, materials, plants,
animals, or other such things which might be affected by the fact that gas
service is interrupted for a period of time.
   B.   Any customer having a facility, operation, process or activity which
cannot tolerate temporary interruption of gas service shall provide an
alternate source of on site fuel or heat for utilization during such
interruption. The responsibility for this alternate rests fully with the
customer. (Ord. NGS-05-01, 9-14-2005)
7-2-17: UNAUTHORIZED ACTIVITY:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall turn on or use water or gas from the
water or gas system unless so authorized by the issuance of a permit by the
Village to use the system.
   B.   Seals: It shall be unlawful for any person to break or cause to be
broken the seal on any meter, valve, fitting or any other connection affixed by
the Municipal utilities, unless authorized to do so by the Superintendent of
Public Works. (1997 Code)
   C.   Fire Hydrants: No person, other than an employee of the Village, shall
open or use water from any fire hydrant connected with the water system of the
Village, unless specifically authorized to do so by the Village. The Divernon
Fire Protection District Fire Department is specifically authorized to open
fire hydrants connected to the water system without notification for
emergencies, training and testing of fire department equipment and apparatus.
(1997 Code; amd. per correspondence dated 3-8-2013)
   D.   Protection Of Utility From Damage: No unauthorized person shall
maliciously, wilfully or negligently break, damage, destroy or tamper with any
structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the utility system. Any
person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under
charge of disorderly conduct.
   E.   Resale: No water or gas shall be resold or distributed by the recipient
thereof from the village supply to any premises other than that for which
application has been made and the meter installed, except in cases of extreme
emergency.
   F.   Obstruction: It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct in any
manner whatsoever, the access to any stopcock, shutoff valve (B-box), hydrant
or valve connected with any utility main or to park any automobile or vehicle
within fifteen feet (15') of any fire hydrant. (1997 Code)
7-2-18: INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, prevent or obstruct the
village or its employees in the performance of the duties under this chapter.
(1997 Code)
7-2-19: WAIVER OF LIABILITY:
All utility connections applied for, and all utilities used, under this chapter
shall be upon the expressed condition that the village shall not be liable, nor
shall any claim be made against it, for damages or injury caused by reason of
the breaking of any main, branch, service pipe, apparatus or appurtenance
connected with said system, or for any interruption of the supply by reason of
the breakage of equipment or machinery or by reason of stoppage, alterations,
extension or renewal. (1997 Code)
7-2-20: CONSERVATION OF WATER:
   A.   Ban On Use Of Nonhealth Essential Water: During emergency conditions,
when it has been determined that an adequate supply of water or water pressure
is not available for drinking and health related purposes, fire protection or
other emergency uses, the village president or the superintendent of public
works may impose restrictions on or prohibit the use of water for nonhealth
essential purposes. Such restriction or prohibition may include, but shall not
be limited to, the watering or sprinkling of lawns, gardens and other
vegetation, the use of large volumes of water for commercial purposes such as
laundromats or car washes and the filling of swimming pools.
   B.   Restrictions: During periods of nonhealth essential water usage
restriction, property with odd numbered street addresses may use water only on
odd numbered calendar days, and property with even numbered street addresses
may use water on even numbered calendar days for nonhealth essential purposes
only. All landscaping and lawn watering will be done between the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. Filling of swimming pools will
not be allowed during periods of water restriction.
   C.   Usage: During periods of outside water usage ban, no nonhealth
essential water usage will be allowed.
   D.   Notice Of Restriction Or Prohibition Of Water Usage: Notice of such
restriction or prohibition (bans) of water usage shall be disseminated through
reasonable communication media throughout the village including, but not
limited to, posting of notice of the same on the front door of the village
hall.
   E.   Exemptions: Notwithstanding any such restriction or ban, freshly sodded
lawns may be watered for a period of thirty (30) days beginning the day the sod
is installed. The property owner must first apply for a permit for such
watering from the village offices.
   F.   Penalty: Any person convicted of violating this section shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1997 Code)
7-2-21: AUTHORITY OF VILLAGE:
   A.   The village shall be permitted to enter all property served by the
public utility system of the village for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement, maintenance, repair and testing in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   The village shall be permitted to enter all private properties through
which the village holds an easement for the purpose of, but not limited to,
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any
portion of the public utility system lying within said easement. All entry and
subsequent work, if any, on said easement shall be done in accordance with the
terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property
involved.
   C.   In the event the village is not permitted to conduct any inspection,
testing, sampling or maintenance it deems necessary or convenient to assure
compliance with this chapter or other applicable governmental regulations, the
village shall have the right to request a court of competent jurisdiction to
issue such administrative warrant or order as may be applicable, to fully
inspect any building or premises to determine compliance with this and any
other ordinance or regulation. (1997 Code)
7-2-22: DAMAGES; OWNER LIABILITY:
If at any time, the property owner or his agents, employees or contractors
damage any part of the village utility system, or any other village property,
the property owner shall be responsible for the cost of repairs for said
damages.
   A.   The property owner shall repay, to the village, the costs of any
materials provided by the village for said repairs.
   B.   The property owner shall repay, to the village, the cost of all labor,
materials and other expenses incurred in making said repairs. Such costs will
include any administrative or legal cost the village incurs, such as for
additional inspections or supervision of a private contractor.
   C.   Should the repairs require the services of a private contractor, the
village will have the right to choose the contractor.
   D.   All repairs shall be done according to the specifications of the
village and the village shall have the right to reject any work not done to
those specifications.
   E.   If the repairs are not completed within a reasonable time period, the
village may have the work done at the sole expense of the property owner.
   F.   No occupancy permit shall be issued until such time that any repairs to
the village utility system or other village property are completed and all
penalties are paid. (1997 Code)
7-2-23: PENALTY:
   Any person convicted of violating this chapter or any provision thereof,
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Every day upon which a violation exists shall be considered
a separate and distinct violation. In addition, the village shall have all such
other rights and remedies as may be available at law or equity.
(1997 Code)
CHAPTER 3
CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE RIGHTS-OF-WAY
SECTION:
7-3-1: Scope And Purpose
7-3-2: Definitions
7-3-3: Annual Registration Required
7-3-4: Permit Required; Applications And Fees
7-3-5: Action On Permit Applications
7-3-6: Effect Of Permit
7-3-7: Revised Permit Blueprints
7-3-8: Insurance
7-3-9: Indemnification
7-3-10:    Security
7-3-11:    Permit Suspension And Revocation
7-3-12:    Change Of Ownership Or Owner's Identity Or Legal Status
7-3-13:    General Construction Standards
7-3-14:    Traffic Control
7-3-15:    Location Of Facilities
7-3-16:    Construction Methods And Materials
7-3-17:    Vegetation Control
7-3-18:    Removal, Relocation, Or Modifications Of Utility Facilities
7-3-19:    Clean-Up And Restoration
7-3-20:    Maintenance And Emergency Maintenance
7-3-21:    Variances
7-3-22:    Penalty; Enforcement
7-3-1: SCOPE AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this Chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the Village's
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the Village
rights-of-way and the Village as a whole.
   B.   Intent: In enacting this Chapter, the Village intends to exercise its
authority over the rights-of-way in the Village and, in particular, the use of
the public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards to
address issues presented by utility facilities, including without limitation:
      1.   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways, and other public ways and places;
      2.   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      3.   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
Village's utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights-of-way or
public property;
      4.   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
      5.   Protect against increased stormwater run-off due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      6.   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
      7.   Preserve open space, particularly the tree-lined parkways that
characterize the Village's residential neighborhoods;
      8.   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights-of-way; and
      9.   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
   C.   Facilities Subject To This Chapter: This Chapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-
of-way within the jurisdiction of the Village. A facility lawfully established
prior to the effective date of this Chapter may continue to be maintained,
repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and located,
except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise, license, or
similar agreement.
   D.   Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements: The Village, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the Village
rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the Village enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the Village may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with
this Chapter.
   E.   Effect Of Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements:
      1.   Utilities Other Than Telecommunications Providers: In the event that
a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise, license or
similar agreement with the Village, such franchise, license, or similar
agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement and any
lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      2.   Telecommunications Providers: In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this Chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the Village and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   F.   Conflicts With Other Chapters: This Chapter supersedes all Chapters or
parts of Chapters adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict.
   G.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: If applicable federal or state
laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this Chapter, the utility
shall comply with the requirements of this Chapter to the maximum extent
possible without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
   H.   Sound Engineering Judgment: The Village shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this Chapter and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this Chapter when the Village so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the
Village to regulate its rights-of-way for the protection of the public health,
safety, and welfare.
(Ord. 2025-001, 1-22-2025)
7-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   For purposes of this Chapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Any term
not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed to it in 92 Ill.
Adm. Code § 530.30, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
AASHTO: American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
ANSI: American National Standards Institute.
APPLICANT: A person applying for a permit under this Chapter.
ASTM: American Society for Testing and Materials.
BACKFILL: The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a trench
or pit.
BORE or BORING: To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the insertion
of a pipe or electrical conductor.
CABLE OPERATOR: That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(5).
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6).
CABLE SYSTEM: That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(7).
CARRIER PIPE: The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas, or slurry to be transported.
CASING: A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
CLEAR ZONE: The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, is available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist
of a shoulder, a recoverable slope, a non-recoverable slope, and a clear run-
out area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds,
and on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO Roadside
Design Guide.
COATING: Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
CODE: The Municipal Code of Ordinances for the Village.
COMMUNICATION: It is common that, for safety and efficiency reasons,
construction employees must be able to communicate with Village public works
staff. To ensure accurate communication, at least one person on the
construction crew shall be able to speak fluent English.
CONDUCTOR: Wire carrying electrical current.
CONDUIT: A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
CONSTRUCTION or CONSTRUCT: The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification, or abandonment in place of
facilities.
COVER: The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
CROSSING FACILITY: A facility that crosses one or more right-of-way lines of a
right-of-way.
DIRECTIONAL BORING/ HORIZONTAL DIRECTIONAL BORING: A trenchless method of
installing underground utilities such as pipe, conduit, or cables in a
relatively shallow arc or radius along a prescribed underground path using a
surface-launched drilling rig.
DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY: For the purposes of this Chapter, any work that
obstructs the right-of-way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right-of-way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
EMERGENCY: Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety of
the public using or in the vicinity of the right-of-way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
ENCASEMENT: Provision of a protective casing.
ENGINEER: The Village Engineer or his or her designee.
EQUIPMENT: Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
EXCAVATION: The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying bare
by digging.
EXTRA HEAVY PIPE: Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
FACILITY: All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including, but not
limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas, vaults,
boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits, grates,
covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances thereto) located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across, or within rights-of-way under this Chapter. For
purposes of this Chapter, FACILITY shall not include any facility owned or
operated by the Village.
FREESTANDING FACILITY: A facility that is not a crossing facility or a parallel
facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
FRONTAGE ROAD: Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent to
the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
Engineer or the Superintendent of Public Works to pose an unreasonable and
imminent risk to the life, health or safety of persons or property or to the
ecological balance of the environment, including, but not limited to
explosives, radioactive materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases,
poisons, etiology (biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance
determined to be hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law, statute or
regulation.
HIGHWAY: A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic including
rural or urban roads or streets. HIGHWAY includes all highway land and
improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges, drainage
structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures, and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
HIGHWAY CODE: The Illinois Highway Code, ILCS Ch. 605, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et seq.,
as amended from time to time.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois Cable and Video
Competition Law, 220 ILCS 5/21-401.
ICC: Illinois Commerce Commission.
IDOT: Illinois Department of Transportation.
JACKING: Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means with
or without boring.
JETTING: Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to create
a cavity ahead of the pipe.
JOINT USE: The use of pole lines, trenches, or other facilities by two (2) or
more utilities.
J.U.L.I.E.: The Joint Utility Locating Information for Excavators utility
notification program.
MAJOR INTERSECTION: The intersection of two (2) or more major arterial
highways.
OCCUPANCY: The presence of facilities on, over or under right-of-way.
PARALLEL FACILITY: A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to the
centerline of a right-of-way.
PARKWAY: Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or sidewalk.
PAVEMENT CUT: The removal of an area of pavement for access to facility or for
the construction of a facility.
PERMITTEE: That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to §§
7-3-4 and
7-3-5.
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES: Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal-slurry.
PRACTICABLE: That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than that
which is simply convenient.
PRESSURE: The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
PROMPT: That which is done within a period of time specified by the Village. If
no time period is specified, the period shall be thirty (30) days.
PUBLIC ENTITY: A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state, or federal level.
RESTORATION: The repair of a right-of-way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY: Any street, alley, other land, or waterway,
dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar
purposes, including utility easements, in which the Village has the right and
authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other
than those of the Village. RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY shall not include any
real or personal Village property that is not specifically described in the
previous two (2) sentences and shall not include Village buildings, fixtures
and other structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated
in the right-of-way.
ROADWAY: That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
SALE OF TELECOMMUNIC ATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
SECURITY FUND: That amount of security required pursuant to §
7-3-10.
SHOULDER: A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT: A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices, and experience.
SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS: The Village's Superintendent of Public Works or
his or her designee, or if no Superintendent of Public Works has been appointed
by the Village, then, in that event, the Village President or his or her
designee.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. PRIVATE LINE means a dedicated non-traffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code, and
protocol of the information for purposes other than transmission.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a
telecommunications service provider for use as a component part of the service
provided by such provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or
terminates the end-to-end communications. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include
the provision of cable services through a cable system as defined in the Cable
Communications Act of 1984 (47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.), as now or hereafter
amended, or cable or other programming services subject to an open video system
fee payable to the Village through an open video system as defined in the Rules
of the Federal Communications Commission (47 C.F.R. § 76.1500 and following),
as now or hereafter amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: Any person that installs, owns, operates, or
controls facilities in the right-of-way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in making
sales of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
TRENCH: A relatively narrow-open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
UTILITY: The individual or entity owning or operating any facility as defined
in this Chapter.
VENT: A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
VIDEO SERVICE: That term as defined in the Illinois Cable and Video Competition
Law of 2007, ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-201(v).
VILLAGE: Village of Divernon, Sangamon County, Illinois.
VILLAGE ON-SITE INSPECTION: The Village will assign a public works employee to
observe and inspect construction operations at all times during normal work
hours (eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. through three o'clock (3:00) P.M.). The
employee will be paid by the contractor at a rate of fifty dollars ($50.00) an
hour for a minimum of seven (7) hours per day. Payment will be due within
fifteen (15) days of receipt of the invoice.
WATER LINES: Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
WET BORING: Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material.
(Ord. 2025-001, 1-22-2025)
7-3-3: ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Every utility that occupies right-of-way within the Village shall
register on January 1 of each year with the Superintendent of Public Works,
providing the utility's name, address and regular business telephone and
telecopy numbers, the name of one or more contact persons who can act on behalf
of the utility in connection with emergencies involving the utility's
facilities in the right-of-way and a twenty four (24) hour telephone number for
each such person, and evidence of insurance as required in §
7-3-8, in the form of a certificate of insurance.
(Ord. 2025-001, 1-22-2025)
7-3-4: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES:
   A.   Permit Required:
      1.   No person shall construct (as defined in this Chapter) any facility
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within any Village right-of-way
which:
         a.   Changes the location of the facility;
         b.   Adds a new facility;
         c.   Disrupts the right-of-way (as defined in this Chapter); or
         d.   Materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by the
facility on, over, above, along, under across or within the right-of-way,
without first filing an application with the Superintendent of Public Works and
obtaining a permit from the Village therefore, except as otherwise provided in
this Chapter.
      2.   No permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of
service connections to customers' premises where there will be no disruption of
the right-of-way.
      3.   No person shall conduct directional boring or horizontal directional
boring on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within any Village
right-of-way unless approved, in writing, by the Village President or his or
her designee, or unless otherwise required by law or easement. Any party
desiring to conduct directional boring or horizontal directional boring on,
over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within any Village rights-of-way
shall be required to obtain a permit from the Village.
      4.   No more than one (1) permit for directional or horizontal
directional boring shall be issued at any one time. No more than (1)
directional drilling equipment shall be used at any given time per approved
permit.
   B.   Permit Application. All applications for permits pursuant to this
Chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the Village and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the Village may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as proprietary or
confidential by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   C.   Minimum General Application Requirements: The application shall be made
by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at a
minimum, the following:
      1.   The utility's name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      2.   The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility, its
telephone, telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
      3.   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      4.   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      5.   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the Village:
         a.   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the Illinois Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         b.   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the Village and shall
promote protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with
ICC regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with
this section unless the Village finds that additional information or assurances
are needed;
      6.   Blueprints, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such blueprints, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
      7.   Evidence of insurance as required in §
7-3-8;
      8.   Evidence of posting of the Security Fund as required in §
7-3-10;
      9.   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
Chapter (see §
7-3-21); and
      10.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
Village.
   D.   Supplemental Application Requirements For Specific Types Of Utilities:
In addition to the requirements of division (C) of this section, the permit
application shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      1.   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any Certificate of Public
Convenience and Necessity or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      2.   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
      3.   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies,
have been satisfied;
      4.   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control, and the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District (other local or state entities with jurisdiction), have been
satisfied; or
      5.   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or types
of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the design
standard to be followed.
      6.   In the case of directional boring or horizontal directional boring,
the Permit Application must include a declaration from the Permittee that the
Permittee has authorized the Village to incur any and all necessary expenses to
obtain third-party review of the Permit Application as the Village, in its sole
and exclusive discretion, deems necessary, and that the Permittee agrees to
reimburse the Village for its actual cost of such review.
   E.   Applicant's Duty To Update Information: Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the Village within thirty (30) days
after the change necessitating the amendment.
   F.   Application Fees:
      1.   Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or similar
agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this Chapter shall be
accompanied by a fee in the amount of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). An
application is required for each construction crew. No application fee is
required to be paid by any electricity utility that is paying the municipal
electricity infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the Electricity
Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act, plus the cost of any third-party review
that the Village, in its sole and exclusive discretion, may deem necessary.
(Ord. 2025-001, 1-22-2025)
7-3-5: ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Village Review Of Permit Applications: Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the Superintendent
of Public Works within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does
not conform to the requirements of applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules,
and regulations, the Superintendent of Public Works shall reject such
application in writing, stating the reasons therefor. If the Superintendent of
Public Works is satisfied that the proposed work conforms to the requirements
of this Chapter and applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations,
the Superintendent of Public Works shall issue a permit therefore as soon as
practicable. In all instances, it shall be the duty of the applicant to
demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Public Works, that
the construction proposed under the application shall be in full compliance
with the requirements of this Chapter.
   B.   Additional Village Review Of Applications Of Telecommunications
Retailers:
      1.   Pursuant to Section 4 of the Telephone Company Act, 220 ILCS 65/4, a
telecommunications retailer shall notify the Village that it intends to
commence work governed by this Chapter for facilities for the provision of
telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of plans,
specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the purpose
and intent of the facilities and shall be provided by the telecommunications
retailer to the Village not less than ten days prior to the commencement of
work requiring no excavation and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the
commencement of work requiring excavation. The Superintendent of Public Works
shall specify the portion of the right-of-way upon which the facility may be
placed, used, and constructed.
      2.   In the event that the Superintendent of Public Works fails to
provide such specification of location to the telecommunications retailer
within either ten (10) days after service of notice to the Village by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for
new construction or twenty five (25) days after service of notice by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new
construction, the telecommunications retailer may commence work without
obtaining a permit under this Chapter.
      3.   Upon the provision of such specification by the Village, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to §
7-3-4 the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the Village an
application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of division (A) of this
section.
   C.   Additional Village review of applications of holders of state
authorization under the Cable and Video Competition Law of 2007. Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a State-issued authorization under the Cable
and Video Competition Law of 2007 shall be deemed granted forty five (45) days
after submission to the Village, unless otherwise acted upon by the Village,
provided the holder has complied with applicable Code provisions, ordinances,
and regulations.
(Ord. 2025-001, 1-22-2025)
7-3-6: EFFECT OF PERMIT:
   A.   Authority Granted; No Property Right Or Other Interest Created: A
permit from the Village authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this Chapter on Village rights-of-way and does
not create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon
the rights of others who may have an interest in the rights-of-way.
   B.   Duration: No permit issued under this Chapter shall be valid for a
period longer than six (6) months unless construction is actually begun within
that period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   C.   Pre-Construction Meeting Required: No construction shall begin pursuant
to a permit issued under this Chapter prior to attendance by the permittee and
all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any work under the
permit at a pre-construction meeting. The pre-construction meeting shall be
held at a date, time and place designated by the Village with such Village
representatives in attendance as the Village deems necessary. The meeting shall
be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit and reviewing special
considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur, including, without
limitation, presence or absence of other utility facilities in the area and
their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other utilities, use of
rights-of-way by the public during construction, and access and egress by
adjacent property owners.
   D.   Compliance With All Laws Required: The issuance of a permit by the
Village does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the Village and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
   E.   Directional Boring Or Horizontal Directional Boring: Any permit issued
under this Chapter for directional boring or horizontal directional boring,
shall only allow the Permittee to bore a distance of one-hundred and eighty
feet (180') in any direction within any twenty four (24) hour period. This
restriction may be waived by the Superintendent of Public Works in his or her
sole exclusive discretion.
(Ord. 2025-001, 1-22-2025)
7-3-7: REVISED PERMIT BLUEPRINTS:
   If the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any material respect
from the locations identified in the plans, blueprints and specifications
submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall submit a revised set
of blueprints or plans to the Village within ninety (90) days after the
completion of the permitted work. The revised blueprints or plans shall
specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities deviate from
the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the permit also
deviates from the requirements of this Chapter, it shall be treated as a
request for variance in accordance with §
7-3-21. If the Village denies the request for a variance, then the permittee
shall either remove the facility from the right-of-way or modify the facility
so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised blueprints or plans
therefor.
(Ord. 2025-001, 1-22-2025)
7-3-8: INSURANCE:
   A.   Required Coverages And Limits:
      1.   Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or similar
agreement, each utility occupying right-of-way or constructing any facility in
the right-of-way shall secure and maintain the following liability insurance
policies insuring the utility as named insured and naming the Village, and its
elected and appointed officers, officials, agents, and employees as additional
insureds on the policies listed in subdivisions (a) and (b) below:
         a.   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as "X," "C," and "U" coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
            (1)   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or
death to each person;
            (2)   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
            (3)   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability;
         b.   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles with
a combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal
injury and property damage for each accident;
         c.   Worker's compensation with statutory limits; and
         d.   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee and per accident.
      2.   If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the
contractors and subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and
subcontractors shall comply with this section.
   B.   Excess Or Umbrella Policies: The coverages required by this section may
be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any excess or
umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following-form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   C.   Copies Required: The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the Village within ten (10) days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the Village.
   D.   Maintenance And Renewal Of Required Coverages:
      1.   The insurance policies required by this section shall contain the
following endorsement:
         "It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be
canceled nor the intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after
receipt by the Village of Divernon, by registered mail or certified mail,
return receipt requested, of a written notice addressed to the Village
President of such intent to cancel or not to renew."
      2.   Within ten (10) days after receipt by the Village of said notice,
and in no event later than ten (10) days prior to said cancellation, the
utility shall obtain and furnish to the Village evidence of replacement
insurance policies meeting the requirements of this section.
   E.   Self-Insurance: A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by division (A) of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under division (A) of this section, or the requirements of divisions
(B), (C) and (D) of this section. A utility that elects to self-insure shall
provide to the Village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability
to self-insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements required under
division (A) of this section, such as evidence that the utility is a private
self-insurer under the Workers Compensation Act.
   F.   Effect Of Insurance And Self-Insurance On Utility's Liability: The
legal liability of the utility to the Village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   G.   Insurance Companies: All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be affected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the State of Illinois.
(All insurance carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated "A-" or better
and of a class size "X" or higher by A.M. Best Company.)
(Ord. 2025-001, 1-22-2025)
7-3-9: INDEMNIFICATION:
   A.   By occupying or constructing facilities in the right-of-way, a utility
shall be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the Village and its
elected and appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and
representatives harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims,
demands, judgments, damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable
attorney's fees and costs of suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or
alleged to arise out of or result from the negligent, careless or wrongful
acts, omissions, failures to act or misconduct of the utility or its
affiliates, officers, employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors in the
construction of facilities or occupancy of the rights of-way, and in providing
or offering service over the facilities, whether such acts or omissions are
authorized, allowed or prohibited by this Chapter or by a franchise, license,
or similar agreement; provided, however, that the utility's indemnity
obligations hereunder shall not apply to any injuries, claims, demands,
judgments, damages, losses or expenses arising out of or resulting from the
negligence, misconduct or breach of this Chapter by the Village, its officials,
officers, employees, agents or representatives.
(Ord. 2025-001, 1-22-2025)
7-3-10: SECURITY:
   A.   Purpose: The permittee shall establish a Security Fund in a form and in
an amount as set forth in this section. The Security Fund shall be continuously
maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee's sole cost and
expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit. The
Security Fund shall serve as security for:
      1.   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements of
this Chapter;
      2.   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the Village occasioned
by the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations,
orders, permits and other directives of the Village issued pursuant to this
Chapter; and
      3.   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the Village may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by permittee in violation of this Chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this Chapter to perform that the Village must perform itself or
have completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the Village from the permittee pursuant to
this Chapter or any other applicable law.
   B.   Form: The permittee shall provide the Security Fund to the Village in
the form, at the permittee's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the Village, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form
acceptable to the Village. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided
pursuant to this division shall, at a minimum:
      1.   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
Village and the permittee;
      2.   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the Village of any amounts covered by it; and,
      3.   Shall provide a location convenient to the Village and within the
State of Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   C.   Amount: The dollar amount of the Security Fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the Superintendent of Public Works, and may also
include reasonable, directly related costs that the Village estimates are
likely to be incurred if the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where
the construction of facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in
phases in multiple locations in the Village, with each phase consisting of
construction of facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and
where construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the Superintendent
of Public Works may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee
to post a single amount of security which shall be applicable to each phase of
the construction under the permit. The amount of the Security Fund for phased
construction shall be equal to the greatest amount that would have been
required under the provisions of this division for any single phase.
   D.   Withdrawals: The Village, upon fourteen (14) days' advance written
notice clearly stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal
rights under this division, may withdraw an amount from the Security Fund,
provided that the permittee has not reimbursed the Village for such amount
within the fourteen (14) day notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the
permittee:
      1.   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      2.   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      3.   Fails to reimburse the Village for any damages, claims, costs, or
expenses which the Village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or nonperformance by the permittee; or
      4.   Fails to comply with any provision of this Chapter that the Village
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the Security Fund.
   E.   Replenishment: Within fourteen (14) days after receipt of written
notice from the Village that any amount has been withdrawn from the Security
Fund, the permittee shall restore the Security Fund to the amount specified in
division (C) of this section.
   F.   Interest: The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the Security Fund be returned to the permittee by the Village,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the Village, provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the Security Fund below the minimum balance required
in division (C) of this section.
   G.   Closing And Return Of Security Fund: Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the Security Fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the Village for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
Chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the Security Fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the Village to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the Village as a result of said revocation, provided
that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
   H.   Rights Not Limited: The rights reserved to the Village with respect to
the Security Fund are in addition to all other rights of the Village, whether
reserved by this Chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said Security Fund shall affect
any other right the Village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
Village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated.
(Ord. 2025-001, 1-22-2025)
7-3-11: PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
   A.   Village Right To Revoke Permit: The Village may revoke or suspend a
permit issued pursuant to this Chapter for one or more of the following
reasons:
      1.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      2.   Non-compliance with this Chapter;
      3.   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-of-way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
or
      4.   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   B.   Notice Of Revocation Or Suspension: The Village shall send written
notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this
Chapter stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   C.   Permittee Alternatives Upon Receipt Of Notice Of Revocation Or
Suspension:
      1.   Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the Village, the permittee shall have the following options:
         a.   Immediately provide the Village with evidence that no cause
exists for the revocation or suspension;
         b.   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the Village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the Village within five (5) working days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation; or
         c.   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within the rights-of-way and restore the rights of-way
to the satisfaction of the Village providing written proof of such removal to
the Village within ten (10) days after receipt of the written notice of
revocation.
      2.   The Village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the
time periods provided in this division.
   D.   Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the Village may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within division (A) of
this section.
   E.   Failure Or Refusal Of The Permittee To Comply: If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of division (C) of this section, the Village or
its designee may, at the option of the Village:
      1.   Correct the deficiencies;
      2.   Upon not less than twenty (20) days' notice to the permittee, remove
the subject facilities or equipment; or
      3.   After not less than thirty (30) days' notice to the permittee of
failure to cure the noncompliance, deem them abandoned and property of the
Village. The permittee shall be liable in all events to the Village for all
costs of removal.
(Ord. 2025-001, 1-22-2025)
7-3-12: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER'S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS:
   A.   Notification Of Change: A utility shall notify the Village no less than
thirty (30) days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the
right-of-way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility
or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules,
and regulations, including this Chapter, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right-of-way.
   B.   Amended Permit: A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the Village's right-
of-way.
   C.   Insurance And Bonding: All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer.
(Ord. 2025-001, 1-22-2025)
7-3-13: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards And Principles: All construction in the right-of-way shall be
consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, and
commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction principles,
sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles and standards
set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from time to time:
      1.   Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction;
      2.   Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions;
      3.   Highway Design Manual;
      4.   Highway Standards Manual;
      5.   Standard Specifications for Traffic Control Items;
      6.   Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (92 Ill. Adm.
Code § 545);
      7.   Flagger's Handbook; and
      8.   Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations.
   B.   Interpretation Of Standards And Principles: If a discrepancy exists
between or among differing principles and standards required by this Chapter,
the Superintendent of Public Works shall determine, in the exercise of sound
engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall be final.
If requested, the Superintendent of Public Works shall state which standard or
principle will apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation of a
facility in the future.
(Ord. 2025-001, 1-22-2025)
7-3-14: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: The Village's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices and this code.
   B.   Warning Signs, Protective Devices, And Flaggers: The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices, and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the rights-of-way.
   C.   Interference With Traffic: All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   D.   Notice When Access Is Blocked: At least forty eight (48) hours prior to
beginning work that will partially or completely block access to any residence,
business or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or
institution of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work;
provided, however, that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to §
7-3-20, the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable under the
circumstances.
   E.   Compliance: The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the Village.
(Ord. 2025-001, 1-22-2025)
7-3-15: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   A.   General Requirements: In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this division.
      1.   No Interference With Village Facilities: No utility facilities shall
be placed in any location if the Superintendent of Public Works determines that
the proposed location will require the relocation or displacement of any of the
Village's utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation or
maintenance of any of the Village's utility facilities.
      2.   Minimum Interference And Impact: The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right-of-way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right-of-
way.
      3.   No Interference With Travel: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right-of-way.
      4.   No Limitations On Visibility: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right-of-way.
      5.   Size Of Utility Facilities: The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
   B.   Parallel Facilities Located Within Highways:
      1.   Overhead Parallel Facilities: An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way line
and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole alignment
will permit;
         b.   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable from
the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (0.6 m) behind the face of the
curb, where available;
         c.   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         d.   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         e.   Any ground-mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (0.3
m) of the right-of-way line or as near as possible to the right-of-way line.
      2.   Underground Parallel Facilities: An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   The facility is located as near the right-of-way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right-of-way line;
         b.   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         c.   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right-of-way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (1.5 m) from the right-of-way line and any above-grounded
appurtenance shall be located within one foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line
or as near as practicable.
   C.   Facilities Crossing Highways:
      1.   No Future Disruption: The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of Village highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      2.   Cattle Passes, Culverts, Or Drainage Facilities: Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage facilities.
      3.   Ninety-Degree (90°) Crossing Required: Crossing facilities shall
cross at or as near to a ninety degree (90°) angle to the centerline as
practicable.
      4.   Overhead Power Or Communication Facility: An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC's
rules entitled, Construction of Electric Power and Communication Lines (83 Ill.
Adm. Code 305);
         b.   Poles are located within one foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way
line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         c.   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      5.   Underground Power Or Communication Facility: An underground power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance-free service life; and
         b.   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      6.   Markers: The Village may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right-of-way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations. (49 C.F.R. § 192.707
(1989).)
   D.   Facilities To Be Located Within Particular Rights-Of-Way: The Village
may require that facilities be located within particular rights-of-way that are
not highways, rather than within particular highways.
   E.   Freestanding Facilities:
      1.   The Village may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right-of-way.
      2.   The Village may require any freestanding facility located within a
right-of-way to be screened from view.
   F.   Facilities Installed Above Ground: Above ground facilities may be
installed only if:
      1.   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground.
      2.   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      3.   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single-pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
   G.   Facility Attachments To Bridges Or Roadway Structures:
      1.   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      2.   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         a.   The type, volume, pressure, or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         b.   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         c.   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         d.   The proposed method of attachment;
         e.   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         f.   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         g.   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and,
         h.   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   H.   Appearance Standards:
      1.   The Village may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      2.   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right-of-way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
(Ord. 2025-001, 1-22-2025)
7-3-16: CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS:
   A.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Construction
Methods:
      1.   Boring Or Jacking:
         a.   Pits And Shoring: Boring or jacking under rights-of-way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the
Superintendent of Public Works from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring
or jacking shall be excavated no more than forty eight (48) hours in advance of
boring or jacking operations and backfilled within forty eight (48) hours after
boring or jacking operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be
clearly marked and protected by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected,
supported, braced, and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical
and lateral loads that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking
operation.
         b.   Wet Boring Or Jetting: Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         c.   Borings With Diameters Greater Than Six Inches (6"): Borings over
six inches (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and
following pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside
diameter of the following pipe by more than one inch (25 mm).
         d.   Borings With Diameters Six Inches Or Less: Borings of six inches
(6") or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with
auger, or auger and following pipe method.
         e.   Tree Preservation: Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the Village to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
      2.   Trenching: Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights-of-way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of Section 603 of IDOT's Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction.
         a.   Length: The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe-line testing. Only
one-half of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless special
permission is obtained from the Superintendent of Public Works.
         b.   Open Trench And Excavated Material: Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by Chapter 6 of the Illinois
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right-of-way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off-road location.
         c.   Drip Line Of Trees: The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the Village to be preserved.
      3.   Backfilling:
         a.   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction. When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         b.   For a period of three (3) years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the Superintendent of Public Works, the utility, at its expense,
shall remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed
facility, place and properly compact new backfill material, and restore new
pavement, sidewalk, curbs, and driveways to the proper grades, as determined by
the Superintendent of Public Works.
      4.   Pavement Cuts: Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this subdivision
permitted under §
7-3-21, the following requirements shall apply:
         a.   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as
designated by the Superintendent of Public Works.
         b.   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the Village.
         c.   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         d.   For all rights-of-way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven (7) years, or resurfaced in the last
three (3) years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to
be an emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before
the time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
J.U.L.I.E. locate.
      5.   Encasement:
         a.   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one-piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
Village.
         b.   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line. No above ground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         c.   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or Village approved
jointed pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is
installed prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or
mechanical joints are of a type approved by the Village. Bell and spigot type
pipe shall be encased regardless of installation method.
         d.   In the case of gas pipelines of sixty (60) psig or less,
encasement may be eliminated.
         e.   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than sixty (60) psig, encasement may be eliminated only
if:
            (1)   Extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or
repair; and
            (2)   Cathodic protection of the pipe is provided;
         f.   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
      6.   Minimum Cover Of Underground Facilities: Cover shall be provided and
maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for minimum
cover for the type of facility:
 
Type of Facility                             Minimum Cover
Electric lines                               30 inches (0.8 m)
Communication, cable, or video service lines As determined by the Village
Gas or petroleum products                    30 inches (0.8 m)
Water line                                   Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                             protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer or drainage line sufficient cover to provide freeze
protection
 
   B.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Facilities:
      1.   Electric Power Or Communication Lines:
         a.   Code Compliance: Electric power or communications facilities
within Village rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Ill. Adm. Code Part 305 (formerly General
Order 160 of the Illinois Commerce Commission) entitled Rules for Construction
of Electric Power and Communications Lines, and the National Electrical Safety
Code.
         b.   Overhead Facilities: Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guy wires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         c.   Underground Facilities:
            (1)   Cable may be installed by trenching, plowing, directional
boring, or horizontal directional boring.
            (2)   If a crossing is installed by boring, directional boring,
horizontal directional boring or jacking, encasement shall be provided between
jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated only if:
               (A)   The crossing is installed by the use of moles, whip
augers, or other approved method which compress the earth to make the opening
for cable installation or
               (B)   The installation is by the open trench method which is
only permitted prior to roadway construction.
            (3)   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the National
Electrical Safety Code.
         d.   Burial Of Drops: All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snowdrops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the Village. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snowdrops, within ten (10) business days
after placement.
      2.   Underground Facilities Other Than Electric Power Or Communication
Lines: Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         a.   The use of moles, whip augers, or other approved methods which
compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         b.   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         c.   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         d.   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is not
possible by other means.
      3.   Gas Transmission, Distribution, And Service: Gas pipelines within
rights-of-way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a Village-
approved manner and in conformance with the Federal Code of the Office of
Pipeline Safety Operations, Department of Transportation, Part 192 -
Transportation of Natural and Other Gas by Pipeline: Minimum Federal Safety
Standards (49 CFR § 192), IDOT's Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction, and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      4.   Petroleum Products Pipelines: Petroleum products pipelines within
rights-of-way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI Standard Code
for Pressure Piping. (Liquid Petroleum Transportation Piping Systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      5.   Waterlines, Sanitary Sewer Lines, Storm Water Sewer Lines Or
Drainage Lines: Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and
drainage lines within rights-of-way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois.
      6.   Ground Mounted Appurtenances: Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right-of-way, shall
be provided with a vegetation-free area extending one foot (305 mm) in width
beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation-free area may be
provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the Superintendent of Public Works. With the
approval of the Superintendent of Public Works, shrubbery surrounding the
appurtenance may be used in place of vegetation-free area. The housing for
ground-mounted appurtenances shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the
surroundings.
   C.   Materials:
      1.   General standards: The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's Standards
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, the requirements of the
Illinois Commerce Commission, or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      2.   Material Storage On Right-Of-Way: No material shall be stored on the
right-of-way without the prior written approval of the Superintendent of Public
Works. When such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles, cross
arms, or other materials shall be distributed along the right-of-way prior to
and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an
obstacle to right-of-way maintenance or damage to the right-of-way and other
property. If material is to be stored on right-of-way, prior approval must be
obtained from the Village.
      3.   Hazardous Materials: The plans submitted by the utility to the
Village shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the
construction of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   D.   Operational Restrictions:
      1.   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion of
the Village, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right-of-way or other
property.
      2.   These restrictions may be waived by the Superintendent of Public
Works when emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
      3.   Unless otherwise permitted by the Village, the hours of construction
are from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to three o'clock (3:00) P.M. of each day,
except no construction on any Saturday or Sunday, nor on any legal holiday,
unless approved by the Superintendent of Public Works or his or her designee,
in their sole and exclusive discretion.
      4.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter, no directional
boring or horizontal directional boring, shall be permitted to occur unless the
Superintendent of Public Works or his or her designee is on site at the
location where aforesaid directional boring or horizontal directional boring is
occurring.
      5.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter, direction
boring or horizontal directional boring must be performed at a depth not less
than two feet (2') below any underground utilities operated by the Village.
   E.   Location Of Existing Facilities: Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the Village shall contact J.U.L.I.E. and ascertain the presence
and location of existing above ground and underground facilities within the
rights-of-way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The Village will make
its permit records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying
possible facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the
Village or by J.U.L.I.E., a utility shall locate and physically mark its
underground facilities within forty eight (48) hours, excluding weekends and
holidays, in accordance with the Illinois Underground Facilities Damage
Prevention Act, 220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.
(Ord. 2025-001, 1-22-2025)
7-3-17: VEGETATION CONTROL:
   A.   Electric Utilities - Compliance With State Laws And Regulations: An
electric utility shall conduct all tree-trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right-of-way in accordance with applicable Illinois laws and
regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the Village as permitted by law.
   B.   Other Utilities - Tree Trimming Permit Required: Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right-of-way and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable Illinois laws and regulations specifically
governing same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this Chapter.
      1.   Application For Tree Trimming Permit: Applications for tree trimming
permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by competent
workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      2.   Damage To Trees: Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The Village will
require compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed
without authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The Village may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   C.   Specimen Trees Or Trees Of Special Significance: The Village may
require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of
special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side
arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
   D.   Chemical Use:
      1.   Except as provided in the division D2 below, no utility shall spray,
inject, or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs, or vegetation in
the Village for any purpose, including the control of growth, insects, or
disease.
      2.   Spraying of any type of brush-killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights-of-way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the Superintendent of Public Works that such spraying is the only
practicable method of vegetation control.
(Ord. 2025-001, 1-22-2025)
7-3-18: REMOVAL, RELOCATION, OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES:
   A.   Notice: Within ninety (90) days following written notice from the
Village, a utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any
utility facilities within the rights-of-way whenever the corporate authorities
have determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is
reasonably necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation
of any Village improvement in or upon, or the operations of the Village in or
upon, the rights-of-way.
   B.   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the Village, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains
any unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights-of-way
shall, at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or
appurtenances from the rights-of-way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to
removal in the following circumstances:
      1.   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      2.   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior grant
of a license or franchise, if required;
      3.   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this Chapter; or
      4.   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   C.   Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities: The Village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the Village, as the Village may determine to be necessary, appropriate,
or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
   D.   Abandonment Of Facilities: Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights-of-way of the Village, the utility shall notify the Village within
ninety (90) days. Following receipt of such notice the Village may direct the
utility to remove all or any portion of the facility if the Superintendent of
Public Works determines that such removal will be in the best interest of
public health, safety, and welfare. In the event that the Village does not
direct the utility that abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice
of abandonment to the Village, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to
consent to the alteration or removal of all or any portion of the facility by
another utility or person.
(Ord. 2025-001, 1-22-2025)
7-3-19: CLEAN-UP AND RESTORATION:
   A.   The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and
terrain and other property within ten (10) days after any portion of the
rights-of-way are disturbed, damaged, or destroyed due to construction or
maintenance by the utility, all to the satisfaction of the Village. This
includes restoration of entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway
surfaces shall be made using materials and methods approved by the
Superintendent of Public Works. Such cleanup and repair may be required to
consist of backfilling, regrading, reseeding, resodding, or any other
requirement to restore the right-of-way to a condition substantially equivalent
to that which existed prior to the commencement of the project. The time period
provided in this section may be extended by the Superintendent of Public Works
for good cause shown.
(Ord. 2025-001, 1-22-2025)
7-3-20: MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE:
   A.   General: Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the Village and at the utility's expense.
   B.   Emergency Maintenance Procedures: Emergencies may justify non-
compliance with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      1.   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades, or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      2.   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
Superintendent of Public Works or his or her duly authorized agent of the
emergency, informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection
of the traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary
repairs. If the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free
movement of traffic, the Village police shall be notified immediately.
      3.   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to complete
repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to the
traveling public.
   C.   Emergency Repairs: The utility must file in writing with the Village a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way within forty eight
(48) hours after an emergency repair.
(Ord. 2025-001, 1-22-2025)
7-3-21: VARIANCES:
   A.   Request For Variance: A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this Chapter must do so in writing to the Superintendent
of Public Works as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify
each provision of this Chapter from which a variance is requested and the
reasons why a variance should be granted.
   B.   Authority To Grant Variances: The Superintendent of Public Works shall
decide whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this Chapter
identified in the variance request on an individual basis.
   C.   Conditions For Granting Of Variance: The Superintendent of Public Works
may authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the variance has
demonstrated that:
      1.   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such as
terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special hardship
that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the public
purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      2.   All other designs, methods, materials, locations, or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   D.   Additional Conditions For Granting Of A Variance: As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the Superintendent of Public Works may require the
utility requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions
that may or may not be expressly contained within this Chapter but which carry
out the purposes of this Chapter.
   E.   Right To Appeal: Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the
Superintendent of Public Works under the provisions of this Chapter shall have
the right to appeal to the City Council, or such other board or commission as
it may designate. The application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to
the Village Clerk within thirty (30) days after the date of such order,
requirement, decision or determination. The Village Board of Trustees shall
commence its consideration of the appeal at its next regularly scheduled
meeting, occurring at least seven days after the filing of the appeal. The
Village shall timely decide the appeal.
(Ord. 2025-001, 1-22-2025)
7-3-22: PENALTY; ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply
with any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be subject to fine in an
amount of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred and
fifty dollars ($750.00) per day that such violations exists. There may be times
when the Village will incur delay or other costs, including third party claims,
because the utility will not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and
this Chapter. Unless the utility shows that another allocation of the cost of
undertaking the requested action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the
Village's costs of damages and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying,
relocating, or removing the facility that is the subject of the permit. No
other administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a permit
related cost apportionment of the Village. Sanctions may be imposed upon a
utility that does not pay the costs apportioned to it.
   B.   Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional
or further remedies that the Village may have for enforcement of this Chapter.
(Ord. 2025-001, 1-22-2025)
TITLE 8
BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Codes Adopted
8-1-2: Enforcement Of Provisions
8-1-1: CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   The Village hereby adopts the present standards for all residential and
commercial building codes as follows:
      1.   Residential:
         International Residential Code (latest edition).
         International Property Maintenance Code (latest edition).
         Illinois Accessibility Code (latest edition).
         Illinois Plumbing Code (latest edition).
         National Electrical Code (latest edition).
         International Energy Conservation Code (latest edition).
      2.   Commercial:
         International Building Code (latest edition).
         International Fuel Gas Code (latest edition).
         International Mechanical Code (latest edition).
         International Property Maintenance Code (latest edition).
         International Fire Code (latest edition).
         Illinois Accessibility Code (latest edition).
   B.   Three (3) copies of said codes shall be and remain on file in the
Office of the Village Clerk, and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated
as though fully set out at length herein. This requirement shall be satisfied
if said codes are generally accessible in electronic form, either through a
website or by being stored in a digital medium.
(1997 Code; amd. Ord. 2016-006, 8-10-2016; Ord. 2025-003, 3-26-2025)
8-1-2: ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   The Village Board approved architects will have the authority to the
enforcement of commercial building codes and issuing of said permits to comply
with Illinois Building Code requirements as of July 1, 2011 (Public Act 096-
0704).
   B.   The Zoning Administrator shall enforce the provisions of the
residential building codes and zoning issues for both residential and
commercial. The Commercial Building Code and permit issuance will be the
responsibility of the approved architects of the Village of Divernon. (Ord.
2016-006, 8-10-2016)
CHAPTER 2
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS 1
SECTION:
8-2-1: Dangerous Buildings Defined
8-2-2: Standards For Repair, Vacation Or Demolition
8-2-3: Dangerous Buildings Declared Nuisances
8-2-4: Authority Of Village Board Of Trustees
8-2-5: Disregarding Notices Or Orders; Penalty
8-2-6: Emergency Cases
8-2-7: Owner Absent From Village
8-2-8: Administrative Liability
8-2-9: Duties Of Police Department
8-2-10: Abatement Procedure
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 4, chapter 4 of this Code.
8-2-1: DANGEROUS BUILDINGS DEFINED:
All buildings or structures which have any or all of the following defects
shall be deemed "dangerous buildings":
   A.   Those whose interior walls or other vertical structural members list,
lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center
of gravity falls outside of the middle third of its base.
   B.   Those which, exclusive of the foundation, show significant damage or
deterioration of the supporting member or members, or significant damage or
deterioration of the nonsupporting enclosing or outside walls or covering.
   C.   Those which have improperly distributed loads upon the floors or roofs
or in which the same are overloaded, or which have insufficient strength to be
reasonably safe for the purpose used.
   D.   Those which have been damaged by fire, wind or other causes so as to
have become dangerous to life, safety, morals or the general health and welfare
of the occupants or the people of the Village.
   E.   Those which have become or are so dilapidated, decayed, unsafe,
unsanitary or which so utterly fail to provide the amenities essential to
decent living that they are unfit for human habitation, or are likely to cause
sickness or disease, so as to work injury to the health, morals, safety or
general welfare of those living therein.
   F.   Those having light, air and sanitation facilities which are inadequate
to protect the health, morals, safety or general welfare of human beings who
live or may live therein.
   G.   Those having inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic
or those having insufficient stairways, elevators, fire escapes or other means
of escape.
   H.   Those which have parts thereof which are so attached that they may fall
and injure members of the public or property.
   I.   Those which, because of their condition, are unsafe, unsanitary or
dangerous to the health, morals, safety or general welfare of the people of the
Village.
   J.   Those buildings existing in violation of any provision of any Building
Code of the Village, or any provision of the zoning ordinance of the Village.
   K.   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which is dangerous
to the public health because of its construction, age, lack of proper repair or
any other cause or condition which causes or aids or may cause or aid in the
spread of disease, or the harboring and spread of rodents, insects or other
vermin, or garbage, debris, and other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy
substances or materials, or which causes or may cause injury to the health of
the occupants of it or of neighboring structures.
   L.   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which, because of
faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or any other cause and
constitutes or creates a fire hazard.
   M.   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which, because of
its condition or because of lack of doors or windows is available to and is
frequented or may be frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons who are
not lawful occupants of such structure.
   N.   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which poses or
otherwise creates an attractive nuisance to children. (Ord. 2015-001, 4-22-
2015)
8-2-2: STANDARDS FOR REPAIR, VACATION OR DEMOLITION:
The following standards shall be followed in substance by the Village Board of
Trustees in ordering repair, alteration, vacation, or demolition of buildings
or structures:
   A.   If any dangerous building or structure can reasonably be repaired so
that it will no longer exist in violation of this chapter, it shall be ordered
repaired.
   B.   If any dangerous building or structure is in such condition as to make
it dangerous to the health, morals, safety or general welfare of its occupants,
it shall be ordered to be vacated.
   C.   In any case where a dangerous building or structure is significantly
damaged, decayed, or deteriorated so as to reduce the fair market value of
building or structure by fifty percent (50%) or more, such building or
structure shall be demolished, and in all cases where a building or structure
cannot be repaired so as to no longer violate this chapter, such building or
structure shall be demolished.
   D.   In all cases where a dangerous building or structure constitutes a fire
hazard or exists in violation of any provision of this Code or the Statutes of
the State of Illinois, and such violations cannot be remedied or repaired, such
building or structure shall be demolished. (Ord. 2015-001, 4-22-2015)
8-2-3: DANGEROUS BUILDINGS DECLARED NUISANCES:
Any and all dangerous buildings as defined in section
8-2-1 of this chapter, uncompleted buildings as defined in section
4-7-3 of this Code, and abandoned buildings as defined in section
4-4-3 of this Code are hereby declared to be a public nuisance. Pursuant to
section
8-2-4 of this chapter, the Village may repair, alter, order the vacation of,
demolish, or enclose or cause the repair, alteration, vacation, demolition, or
enclosure of any dangerous, uncompleted, or abandoned building within the
Village and may remove or cause the removal of garbage, debris, and other
hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or materials from such buildings
pursuant to section 11-31-1 of the Illinois Municipal Code. (Ord. 2015-001, 4-
22-2015)
8-2-4: AUTHORITY OF VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
The Village Board or its appointee shall have the authority to:
   A.   Annual Inspections: Cause to be inspected annually, all public
buildings, schools, halls, churches, theaters, hotels, tenements, commercial,
manufacturing or loft buildings for the purpose of determining whether any
conditions exist which render such places a dangerous building within the terms
of this chapter. In order to investigate, confirm and report dangerous
buildings and structures, the Village President, the Village Trustee with
jurisdiction over building and zoning, or an otherwise appointed Village
official shall, upon proper identification, shall be permitted at any
reasonable hour and in a reasonable manner to visit and enter into or upon any
premises or property within the Village to make an examination thereof, if such
officer shall have reasonable grounds to believe that a building or structure
is dangerous.
   B.   Complaints Filed: Inspect any building, wall or structure about which
complaints are filed by any person to the effect that a building, wall or
structure is or may be existing in violation of this chapter.
   C.   Fire District Reports: Inspect any building, wall or structure reported
by the fire district as potentially existing in violation of the terms of this
chapter.
   D.   Notice: Based upon an inspection of any building or structure in the
Village, the Village President, the Village Trustee with jurisdiction over
building and zoning, or an otherwise appointed Village official reasonably
determines that such building or structure is a "dangerous", "uncompleted", or
"abandoned" building as defined in this chapter, or is an "unsafe structure",
structure having "unsafe equipment", or constitutes a "structure unfit for
human occupancy" as those terms are defined in the International Property
Maintenance Code, such official may cause written notice to be served upon the
owner of such building or structure and the occupant thereof, if any, by
certified mail, registered mail, or personal service stating such
determination. If, upon diligent search, the identity or whereabouts of the
owner or owners of the building, including the lienholders of record, is not
ascertainable, notice mailed to the person or persons in whose name the real
estate was last assessed shall constitute sufficient notice. Notice by
certified or regular mail pursuant to this section shall be deemed complete
upon: 1) return receipt from the addressee, 2) return of the certified or
regular mail as "unclaimed" or "refused", or 3) three (3) days after the date
of mailing if no return receipt or return of said notice is received by the
Village. Such notice shall state that the subject building or structure is
declared to constitute a dangerous condition, that such dangerous condition
must be removed or remedied by repairing, altering, or demolishing said
building or structure within thirty (30) days of the date of service of the
notice. Such notice may, but shall not be required to, provide that occupants
of the subject building or structure must vacate the subject building or
structure within five (5) calendar days of date of service of the notice, and
may not reoccupy the subject building or structure until repair or alteration
thereof is complete. Such notice may, but shall not be required to, be issued
in the following form:
   To (owner or occupant of the premises) of the premises known and described
as (insert physical address).
   You are hereby notified that pursuant to Section
8-2-3 of the Village of Divernon Code of Ordinances your building located at
the above-described premises has been condemned as a nuisance and a dangerous
building after inspection by (inspector name).
   The causes for this decision are (here insert the facts as to the dangerous
condition).
   You have thirty (30) days from the date of service of this notice, as
defined in Section
8-2-4 of the Village Code, to remedy this condition or demolish the building
immediately or the Village will proceed to take legal action to do so. (You are
required to vacate the premises within 5 days of this notice, and may not
reoccupy the premises until completion of the repairs and alterations necessary
to remedy the dangerous conditions described above.)
   You may also be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars
($100) per day nor more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750) per day for
each day the building or structure exists in a dangerous condition. In
addition, the Village may further avail itself of all of the remedies set forth
in Section 11-31-1 of the Illinois Municipal Code.
   E.   Description; Compliance Time Limit: The notice provided as set forth in
this chapter shall include a description of the building or structure deemed
dangerous, a statement of the particulars which make the building or structure
a dangerous building, and an order requiring the same to be put in such
condition as to comply with the terms of this chapter within thirty (30) days.
   F.   Unknown Address Of Owner: If the owner, or address of the owner, of a
dangerous building or structure is unknown, service of any notice provided for
in this chapter may be made by posting a copy thereof on the premises and by
publishing one time a copy thereof in a newspaper of general circulation within
the Village.
   G.   Notice Upon Building: A notice shall be placed upon all buildings and
structures deemed to be a dangerous building by the Village Board stating
substantially as follows:
This building has been found to be a dangerous building by the Village Board or
its appointee. This notice is to remain on this building until it is repaired,
altered, or demolished in accordance with the notice which has been given the
owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee or agent of this building. This building
shall not be occupied until repair or alteration is complete. It is unlawful to
remove this notice prior to completion of the ordered repair or alteration.
   H.   Failure To Comply: If any person receiving notice pursuant to this
chapter fails to comply with said notice within thirty (30) days from the date
of service, the Zoning Administrator, the Village President, the Village
Trustee with jurisdiction over building and zoning, or an otherwise appointed
Village official, may proceed to remedy the condition or demolish the dangerous
building pursuant to the process established in section 11-31-1 of the Illinois
Municipal Code and seeking any or all remedies available thereunder, including,
but not limited to, the following:
      1.   A judicial order authorizing the Village to demolish, alter, or
repair the building or structure or to remove garbage, debris, and other
hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or materials from the building or
structure if the owner or owners of the building or structure, including the
lienholders of record, after at least thirty (30) days' written notice by mail
to do so, have failed to put the building in a safe condition or to demolish
it.
      2.   A fine as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
      3.   A judicial order requiring the owner or owners of record demolish,
alter, or repair the building or to remove garbage, debris, and other
hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or materials from the building.
      4.   A judgment against the owner or other person causing any dangerous
condition for the payment of the Village's costs and reasonable attorney fees
in connection with the Village's enforcement of this chapter.
It shall not be a defense in any action brought pursuant to this chapter that
the building is boarded up or otherwise enclosed, although the court may order
the defendant to have the building boarded up or otherwise enclosed.
   I.   Fines: It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any
dangerous building or structure in the Village and it shall be unlawful for a
record owner, occupant or person in custody of any dangerous building or
structure to permit the same to remain in a dangerous condition, permit
occupancy thereof, or occupy said building or structure while it is or remains
in a dangerous condition. Any person in violation of this section shall be
subject to a fine as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day a building shall exist in a dangerous condition
shall constitute a separate offense.
   J.   Additional Remedies: In addition to all other actions authorized by
this chapter, the Village Board may regulate buildings and structures pursuant
to any and all provisions of this Code and the Illinois Municipal Code,
including but not limited to: section 11-31-1, authorizing imposition of a lien
when the Village is compelled to take action; and section 11-31-2, authorizing
an injunction to require compliance with building, fire, health and safety
standards. (Ord. 2015-001, 4-22-2015)
8-2-5: DISREGARDING NOTICES OR ORDERS; PENALTY:
   A.   Any owner or owners of any dangerous building or structure, including
the lienholders of record, failing to comply with any notice provided pursuant
to this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   B.   Any occupant or lessee in possession failing to comply with any notice
to vacate a dangerous building or structure in accordance with any notice
provided pursuant to this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   C.   Any person removing a notice posted pursuant to this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2015-001, 4-22-2015)
8-2-6: EMERGENCY CASES:
In any case where it reasonably appears that there is immediate danger to the
life, health, or safety of any person due to the existence of a "dangerous",
"uncompleted", or "abandoned" building or structure as defined in this chapter,
or is an "unsafe structure", structure having "unsafe equipment", or "structure
unfit for human occupancy" as those terms are defined in the International
Property Maintenance Code, the Village Board shall cause the immediate repair,
alteration, vacation, or demolition of such building or structure. The cost of
such emergency repair, alteration, vacation, or demolition of such building or
structure shall be collected in the same manner as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-001, 4-22-2015)
8-2-7: OWNER ABSENT FROM VILLAGE:
In cases, except emergency cases, where the owner, occupant, lessee or
mortgagee is or is reasonably determine to be absent from the Village, all
notices or orders provided for herein shall be sent by certified mail to the
owner, occupant, mortgagee, lessee and all other persons having an interest in
said building as shown by the grantor or grantee indices or other records
maintained by the Sangamon County Clerk and ex officio Recorder of Deeds to the
last known address of each, and a copy of such notice shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the building or structure to which it relates. Such
mailing and posting shall be deemed adequate notice. (Ord. 2015-001, 4-22-2015)
8-2-8: ADMINISTRATIVE LIABILITY:
No officer, agent or employee of the Village shall render himself personally
liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any
act required or permitted in the discharge of his duties under this chapter.
Any suit brought against any officer, agent or employee of the Village as a
result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his duties under
this chapter shall be defended by the Village Attorney until the final
determination of the proceedings therein. (Ord., 3-28-1984)
8-2-9: DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT:
The employees of the Police Department shall make a report in writing to the
Zoning Administrator of all buildings or structures which are, may be or are
suspected to be dangerous buildings within the terms of this chapter. Such
reports must be delivered to the Zoning Administrator within twenty four (24)
hours of the discovery of such buildings by any employee of the Police
Department. (Ord., 3-28-1984)
8-2-10: ABATEMENT PROCEDURE:
Whenever it is determined by the Village that a nuisance exists, the abatement
procedure as set forth in title 4, chapter 2 of this Code shall be followed.
(1997 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEVELOPMENT IN FLOODPLAIN AREAS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Statute Authority; Purpose
8-3-2: Definitions
8-3-3: Base Flood Elevation
8-3-4: Duties Of Zoning Administrator
8-3-5: Development Permit
8-3-6: Preventing Increased Flood Heights And Damages
8-3-7: Protecting Buildings
8-3-8: Subdivision And Other Development Requirements
8-3-9: Public Health And Other Standards
8-3-10: Carrying Capacity And Notification
8-3-11: Variances
8-3-12: Disclaimer Of Liability
8-3-13: Violation; Penalties
8-3-14: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
8-3-1: STATUTE AUTHORITY; PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the village by
the Illinois municipal code 1  in order to accomplish the following purposes:
   A.   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   B.   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   C.   To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   D.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   E.   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   F.   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   G.   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate floodwater and stormwater impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development. (Ord. 2007-04, 7-25-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8, 5/11-31-2.
8-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are adopted:
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year flood.
The base flood elevation at any location is as defined in section
8-3-3 of this chapter.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation in relation to mean sea level of the
crest of the base flood.
BASEMENT: That portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BUILDING: A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage tank,
that is principally aboveground, including manufactured homes, prefabricated
buildings and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes recreational
vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than one hundred
eighty (180) days per year.
CRITICAL FACILITY:
   A.   Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare of the
population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the disaster.
Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital services,
can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can put special
populations at risk.
   B.   Examples of critical facilities where flood protection should be
required include: emergency services facilities (such as fire and police
stations), schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care facilities,
major roads and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone switching stations
or electrical transformers), and hazardous materials storage facilities
(chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Any manmade change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
      1.   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building;
      2.   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
      3.   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for
a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year;
      4.   Installation of utilities and construction of roads, bridges, and
culverts or similar projects;
      5.   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls, or fences;
      6.   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving, or
other alterations of the ground surface;
      7.   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks, and channel modifications or any other activity that might
change the direction, height, or velocity of floodwaters or surface waters.
   B.   "Development" does not include routine maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities; resurfacing roads; or gardening, plowing, and similar
practices that do not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date hereof.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEMA: Federal emergency management agency.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid accumulation,
or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: A map prepared by the federal emergency management
agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION OR FPE: The elevation of the base flood, plus one
foot (1') of freeboard, at any given location in the floodplain.
FLOODPLAIN AND SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA):
   A.   These two (2) terms are synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction
of the village of Divernon, the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village of
Divernon, or that may be annexed into the village of Divernon, that are subject
to inundation by the base flood. The floodplains of the village of Divernon are
generally identified as such on panel numbers 0535 and 0545 of the countywide
flood insurance rate map of Sangamon County prepared by the federal emergency
management agency and dated August 2, 2007. Floodplain also includes those
areas of known flooding as identified by the community.
   B.   The floodplains of those parts of unincorporated Sangamon County that
are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village of Divernon or that
may be annexed in the village of Divernon are generally identified as such on
the flood insurance rate map prepared for Sangamon County by the federal
emergency management agency and dated August 2, 2007.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE: A form published by the federal emergency management
agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
FLOODWAY: That portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the base
flood. The floodways for each of the floodplains of the village of Divernon
shall be according to the best data available from federal, state, or other
sources.
FREEBOARD: An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places or
preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the national register.
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily determined
by the secretary to qualify as a registered historic district.
   C.   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by the
Illinois historic preservation agency.
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that has
been certified by the Illinois historic preservation agency.
IDNR/OWR: Illinois department of natural resources/office of water resources.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure usable solely for parking
of vehicle, building access or storage in an area other than a basement area is
not considered a building's lowest floor. Provided, that such enclosure is not
built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable nonelevation
design requirements of section
8-3-7 of this chapter.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, that is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more lots for rent or sale.
NFIP: National flood insurance program.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the start of construction commenced or
after the effective date hereof and includes any subsequent improvements of
such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
complete on or after the effective date hereof.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis.
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less in size.
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
REPETITIVE LOSS: Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds twenty
five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
SFHA: See definition of Floodplain And Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA).
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and means the date the
building permit was issued; provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or improvement was within
one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either
the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as
the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation or placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. For a substantial improvement, actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other
structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: See definition of Building.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cumulative percentage of damage subsequent to the effective date hereof equals
or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and
materials must be included in this determination. The term includes "repetitive
loss" as defined in this section.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT:
   A.   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or improvement of a
structure taking place subsequent to the effective date hereof in which the
cumulative percentage of improvements:
      1.   Equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
structure before the improvement or repair is started; or
      2.   Increases the floor area by more than twenty percent (20%).
   B.   "Substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the structure.
   C.   The term includes structures which have incurred repetitive loss or
substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done.
   D.   The term does not include:
      1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      2.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of
historic places or the Illinois register of historic places.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
required federal, state, and/or local permits and elevation certification is
presumed to be in violation until such time as the documentation is provided.
(Ord. 2007-04, 7-25-2007)
8-3-3: BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:
This chapter's protection standard is the base flood. The best available base
flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best available
data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace
the existing data with better data and submit it to FEMA and IDNR/OWR for
approval prior to any development of the site.
   A.   The base flood elevation for the floodplain of Brush Creek shall be as
delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the countywide flood insurance
study of Sangamon County, prepared by the federal emergency management agency
and dated August 2, 2007.
   B.   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an "AH zone"
or "AO zone" shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the countywide
flood insurance rate map of Sangamon County.
   C.   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an "A zone" on the countywide flood insurance rate map of
Sangamon County shall be according to the best data available from federal,
state or other sources. Should no other data exist, an engineering study must
be financed by the applicant to determine base flood elevations.
   D.   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated Sangamon County that are within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the village, or that may be annexed into the village, shall be
as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the flood insurance study of
Sangamon County, prepared by the federal emergency management agency and dated
August 2, 2007. (Ord. 2007-04, 7-25-2007)
8-3-4: DUTIES OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
The zoning administrator shall be responsible for the general administration of
this chapter and ensure that all development activities within the floodplains
under the jurisdiction of the village meet the requirements of this chapter.
Specifically, the zoning administrator shall:
   A.   Process development permits in accordance with section
8-3-5 of this chapter;
   B.   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of section
8-3-6 of this chapter;
   C.   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to section
8-3-7 of this chapter are met and maintain a record of the "as built" elevation
of the lowest floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
   D.   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements of
section
8-3-8 of this chapter;
   E.   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of section
8-3-9 of this chapter;
   F.   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of section
8-3-11 of this chapter are met and maintain documentation of any variances
granted;
   G.   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty actions
outlined in section
8-3-13 of this chapter as necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
   H.   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state and federal permits;
   I.   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any alteration
or relocation of a watercourse;
   J.   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
   K.   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
   L.   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps, copies
of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for development
activities subject to this chapter;
   M.   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter and
make substantial damage determinations for structures within the floodplain;
and
   N.   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/OWR
and/or submitting information to FEMA within six (6) months whenever a
modification of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in
a change to the floodplain map. (Ord. 2007-04, 7-25-2007)
8-3-5: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   Permit And Compliance Required: No person, firm, corporation, or
governmental body not exempted by law shall commence any development in the
floodplain without first obtaining a development permit from the zoning
administrator. The zoning administrator shall not issue a development permit if
the proposed development does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Application For Permit: The application for development permit shall be
accompanied by:
      1.   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale, showing property line
dimensions;
      2.   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      3.   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      4.   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of section
8-3-7 of this chapter; and
      5.   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed engineer
or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this requirement.
   C.   Review Of Application; Records Kept:
      1.   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the zoning
administrator shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood
elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown by survey data to
be higher than the current base flood elevation and which has not been filled
after the date of the site's first flood insurance rate map is not in the
floodplain and therefore not subject to the requirements of this chapter.
Conversely, any development located on land shown to be below the base flood
elevation and hydraulically connected, but not shown on the current flood
insurance rate map, is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   The zoning administrator shall maintain documentation of the
existing ground elevation at the development site and certification that this
ground elevation existed prior to the date of the site's first flood insurance
rate map identification.
   D.   Additional Required Permits: The zoning administrator shall be
responsible for obtaining from the applicant copies of all other federal, state
and local permits, approvals or permit not required letters that may be
required for this type of activity. The zoning administrator shall not issue a
permit unless all other federal, state and local permits have been obtained.
(Ord. 2007-04, 7-25-2007)
8-3-6: PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND DAMAGES:
Within any floodway identified on the countywide flood insurance rate map, and
within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section, no development
shall be allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated
development, will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat
to public health and safety. The following specific development activities
shall be considered as meeting this requirement:
      1.   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
following conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 2:
         a.   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of one foot (1.0').
         b.   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of one-half foot (0.5') at a point one thousand
feet (1,000') upstream of the proposed structure.
         c.   There are no buildings in the area impacted by the increases in
water surface profile.
         d.   The proposed bridge or culvert crossing will not involve
straightening, enlarging or relocating the existing channel.
         e.   The design must be certified by a licensed professional engineer
in the state of Illinois, and the designs must meet the conditions of an IDNR/
OWR permit.
         f.   The design must be certified by a second licensed professional
engineer.
      2.   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit no. 3: The permit is only applicable when deadmen, pier cells
or other similar anchorage devices have been permitted by the U.S. army corps
of engineers.
      3.   Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit no. 4:
         a.   The utility line must be considered above the existing 100-year
flood elevation or attached to an existing bridge.
         b.   A utility line attached to an existing bridge shall be
constructed above the low cord elevation of the bridge.
         c.   No supporting towers or poles shall be located in a river, lake
or stream.
         d.   Supporting towers, including foundation and poles, shall be
designed and located so as to not cause an obstruction of flood flows by
trapping debris.
         e.   All disturbed areas shall be returned to preconstruction grades
and revegetated.
         f.   All Illinois commerce commission, national electrical safety code
and federal requirements must be met.
      4.   Minor boat docks meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit no. 5:
         a.   The boat dock must not extend more than fifty feet (50') into a
waterway and no more than one-fourth (1/4) of the width of the waterway and
shall not extend beyond the navigational limit established by the IDNR and
corps of engineers.
         b.   The width of the boat dock shall not be more than ten feet (10').
         c.   For L-shaped or T-shaped docks, the length of that portion
parallel to the shoreline must not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
landowner's shoreline frontage nor fifty feet (50').
         d.   Docks must be aligned so as not to cross the projection of
property lines into the waterway or come within ten feet (10') of the projected
property line.
         e.   Dock posts must be marked by reflective devices.
         f.   The boat dock must be securely anchored to prevent detachment
during times of high wind or water.
         g.   Metal drums or containers may not be used as buoyancy units
unless they are filled with flotation foam. Containers which previously stored
pesticides, herbicides, or any other toxic chemicals are not permissible.
         h.   This permit does not authorize any other related construction
activity such as shore protection or fill.
         i.   Nonfloating boat docks must be constructed in a manner which will
minimize obstruction to flow.
         j.   At any future date, the permittee must agree to make necessary
modifications to the dock as determined by the IDNR or corps of engineers.
      5.   Minor, nonobstructive activities meeting the following conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 6. The following activities (not involving fill
or positive change in grade) are covered by this permit:
         a.   The construction of underground utility lines, wells or septic
tanks not crossing a lake or stream.
         b.   The construction of light poles, signposts and similar
structures.
         c.   The construction of sidewalks, driveways, athletic fields
(excluding fences), patios and similar structures.
         d.   The construction of properly anchored, unwalled, open structures
such as playground equipment, pavilions and carports.
         e.   The placement of properly anchored buildings not exceeding
seventy (70) square feet in size, nor ten (10) square feet in any dimension.
Only one such building on a property is authorized by this statewide permit.
         f.   The raising of existing buildings, provided no changes are made
to the outside dimensions of the building and the placement of fill is not
involved.
      6.   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 7:
         a.   Any outfall structure, including any headwall or end section,
shall not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent natural bank
slope or adjacent bank protection.
         b.   The velocity of the discharge shall not exceed the scour velocity
of the channel soil, unless channel erosion would be prevented by the use of
riprap or other design measures.
         c.   Outlets from drainage ditches shall not be opened to a stream
until the ditch is vegetated or otherwise stabilized to minimize stream
sedimentation.
         d.   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      7.   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 8:
         a.   In all cases, the crossing shall be placed beneath the bed of the
river, lake or stream and, unless the crossing is encased in concrete or
entrenched in bedrock, a minimum of three feet (3') of cover shall be provided.
The riverbed, lake bed or streambed shall be returned to its original
condition.
         b.   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
         c.   Any utility crossing carrying material which may cause water
pollution, as defined by the environmental protection act 1 , shall be provided
with shutoff valves on each side of the body of water to be crossed.
         d.   If blasting is to be utilized in the construction of the
crossing, the permittee shall notify the IDNR/OWR at least ten (10) days prior
to the blasting date to allow monitoring of any related fish kills.
      8.   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit no. 9:
         a.   Only the following materials may be utilized in urban areas:
stone and concrete riprap, steel sheet piling, cellular blocks, fabric formed
concrete, gabion baskets, rock and wire mattresses, sand/cement filled bags,
geotechnical fabric materials, natural vegetation and treated timber. "Urban
areas" are defined as areas of the state where residential, commercial or
industrial development currently exists or, based on land use plans or
controls, is expected to occur within ten (10) years. (The department should be
consulted if there is a question of whether or not an area is considered
urban.)
         b.   In addition to materials listed in subsection A8a of this
section, other materials (e.g., tire revetments) may be utilized in rural
areas, provided all other conditions of this permit are met.
         c.   The following materials shall not be used in any case: auto
bodies, garbage or debris, scrap lumber, metal refuse, roofing materials,
asphalt or other bituminous materials, or any material which would cause water
pollution as defined by the environmental protection act 2 .
         d.   The affected length of shoreline, stream bank or channel to be
protected shall not exceed, whether singularly or cumulatively, one thousand
feet (1,000').
         e.   All material utilized shall be properly sized or anchored to
resist anticipated forces of current and wave action.
         f.   Materials shall be placed in a way which would not cause erosion
or the accumulation of debris on properties adjacent to or opposite the
project.
         g.   Materials shall not be placed higher than the existing top of the
bank.
         h.   Materials shall be placed so that the modified bank full width
and cross sectional area of the channel will conform to or be no more
restrictive than that of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the
site. For projects involving continuous placement of riprap along the bank, toe
of the bank or other similar applications, in no case shall the cross sectional
area of the natural channel be reduced by more than ten percent (10%) nor the
volume of material placed exceed two (2) cubic yards per linear foot of the
stream bank or shoreline. The bank may be graded to obtain a flatter slope and
to lessen the quantity of material required.
         i.   If broken concrete is used, all protruding materials such as
reinforcing rods shall be cut flush with the surface of the concrete and
removed from the constructions area.
         j.   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
         k.   In the case of seawalls and gabion structures on lakes, the
structure shall be constructed at or landward of the water line as determined
by the normal pool elevation, unless:
            (1)   It is constructed in alignment with an existing seawall(s) or
gabion structure(s); and
            (2)   The volume of material placed, including the structure, would
not exceed two (2) cubic yards per linear foot.
         l.   Excess material excavated during the construction of the bank or
shoreline protection shall be placed in accordance with local, state and
federal laws and rules, and shall not be placed in a floodway.
      9.   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential buildings
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 10:
         a.   The accessory structure or building addition must comply with the
requirements of this chapter.
         b.   The principal structure to which the project is being added must
have been in existence on the effective date of this permit (July 25, 1988).
         c.   The accessory structure or addition must not exceed five hundred
(500) square feet in size and must not deflect floodwaters onto another
property and must not involve the placement of any fill material.
         d.   No construction shall be undertaken in or within fifty feet (50')
of the bank of the stream channel.
         e.   The accessory structure or addition must be properly anchored to
prevent its movement during flood conditions.
         f.   Only one accessory structure or addition to an existing structure
shall be authorized by this permit. Plans for any subsequent addition must be
submitted to IDNR/OWR for review.
         g.   Disturbances of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed floodway areas
shall be seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      10.   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 11:
         a.   The affected length of the stream shall not, either singularly or
cumulatively, exceed one thousand feet (1,000');
         b.   The project shall not include the construction of any new
channel. All work must be confined to the existing channel or to reestablishing
flows in the natural stream channel; and
         c.   The cross sectional area of the dredged channel shall conform to
that of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the site.
         d.   Dredged or spoil material shall not be disposed of in a wetland
and shall be either:
            (1)   Removed from the floodway;
            (2)   Used to stabilize an existing bank, provided no materials
would be placed higher than the existing top of the bank, and provided the
cross sectional area of the natural channel would not be reduced by more than
ten percent (10%), nor the volume of material placed exceed two (2) cubic yards
per linear foot of stream bank;
            (3)   Used to fill an existing washed out or scoured floodplain
area such that the average natural floodplain elevation is not increased;
            (4)   Used to stabilize an existing levee, provided the height of
the levee would not be increased nor its alignment changed;
            (5)   Placed in a disposal site previously approved by the
department in accordance with the conditions of the approval; or
            (6)   Used for beach nourishment, provided the material meets all
applicable water quality standards.
         e.   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be seeded or otherwise
stabilized upon completion of construction.
      11.   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 12:
         a.   A licensed professional engineer shall determine and document
that the existing structure has not been the cause of demonstrable flood
damage. Such documentation shall include, at a minimum, confirmation that:
            (1)   No buildings or structures have been impacted by the
backwater induced by the existing structure; and
            (2)   There is no record of complaints of flood damages associated
with the existing structure.
         b.   A licensed professional engineer shall determine that the new
structure will provide the same or greater effective waterway opening as the
existing structure. For bridge widening projects, the existing piers and the
proposed pier extensions must be in line with the direction of the approaching
flow upstream of the bridge.
         c.   The project shall not include any appreciable raising of the
approach roads. (This condition does not apply if all points on the approaches
exist at an elevation equal to or higher than the 100-year frequency flood
headwater elevation as determined by FEMA flood insurance study completed or
approved by IDNR/OWR.)
         d.   The project shall not involve the straightening, enlargement or
relocation of the existing channel of the river or stream except as permitted
by the department's statewide permit no. 9 (minor shoreline, channel and stream
bank protection activities) or statewide permit no. 11 (minor maintenance
dredging activities).
         e.   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by
this permit necessary to document compliance with the conditions of this
subsection A11.
      12.   Temporary construction activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 13:
         a.   No temporary construction activity shall be commenced until the
individual permittee determines that the permanent structure (if any) for which
the work is being performed has received all required federal, state and local
authorizations.
         b.   The term "temporary" shall mean not more than one construction
season. All temporary construction materials must be removed from the stream
and floodway within one year of their placement and the area returned to the
conditions existing prior to the beginning of construction. Any desired
subsequent or repetitive material placement shall not occur without the review
and approval of the IDNR/OWR.
         c.   The temporary project shall be constructed such that it will not
cause erosion or damage due to increases in water surface profiles to adjacent
properties. For locations where there are structures in the upstream
floodplain, the temporary project shall be constructed such that all water
surface profile increases, due to the temporary project, are contained within
the channel banks.
         d.   This permit does not authorize the placement or construction of
any solid embankment or wall such as a dam, roadway, levee, or dike across any
channel or floodway.
         e.   No temporary structure shall be placed within any river or stream
channel until a licensed professional engineer determines and documents that
the temporary structure will meet the requirements of special condition no. 3
of this statewide permit. Such documentation shall include, at a minimum,
confirmation that no buildings or structures will be impacted by the backwater
induced by the temporary structure.
         f.   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by
this permit necessary to document compliance with subsection A12e of this
section.
         g.   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of the removal of the temporary
construction.
         h.   Materials used for the project shall not cause water pollution as
defined by the environmental protection act 3 .
      13.   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
   B.   Other development activities not listed in subsection A of this section
may be permitted only if:
      1.   A permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required); or
      2.   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA, when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation. (Ord. 2007-04, 7-25-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 5.
2 1. 415 ILCS 5.
3 1. 415 ILCS 5.
8-3-7: PROTECTING BUILDINGS:
   A.   Application Of Provisions: In addition to the damage prevention
requirements of section
8-3-6 of this chapter, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be
protected from flood damage below the flood protection elevation. This building
protection requirement applies to the following situations:
      1.   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or seventy (70) square feet.
      2.   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than twenty percent
(20%) or equal or exceed the market value by fifty percent (50%). Alterations
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the effective date hereof. If
substantially improved, the existing structure and the addition must meet the
flood protection standards of this section.
      3.   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the effective date hereof. If
substantially damaged, the entire structure must meet the flood protection
standards of this section.
      4.   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. (The building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage.)
      5.   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than one hundred eighty (180) days per year.
      6.   "Repetitive loss" to an existing building as defined in section
8-3-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Residential Or Nonresidential Buildings:
      1.   Residential or nonresidential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
         a.   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in
accordance with the following:
            (1)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above
the flood protection elevation;
            (2)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
(6") before compaction and should extend at least ten feet (10') beyond the
foundation before sloping below the flood protection elevation;
            (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure;
            (4)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not
incorporate debris or refuse materials; and
            (5)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface
drainage from or onto neighboring properties, and when necessary, stormwater
management techniques such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
         b.   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with
the following:
            (1)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts,
piles, walls, crawl space, or other foundation that is permanently open to
floodwaters;
            (2)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation;
            (3)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood
protection elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the
automatic entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs must either be certified by a
licensed professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening
on each wall no more than one foot (1') above grade with a minimum of two (2)
openings. The openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one
square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
below the base flood elevation; and
            (4)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed, and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice and floating debris.
               (A)   All structural components below the flood protection
elevation shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage;
               (B)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation, provided they are waterproofed;
               (C)   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be
used solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied
as habitable space; or
               (D)   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to
comply with these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional
engineer or architect.
         c.   The building may be constructed with a crawl space located below
the flood protection elevation; provided, that the following conditions are
met:
            (1)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to
resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
            (2)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. There shall be a minimum of one opening on each
wall having a total net area of not less than one square inch per one square
foot of enclosed area. The openings shall be no more than one foot (1') above
grade;
            (3)   The interior grade of the crawl space below the flood
protection elevation must not be more than two feet (2') below the lowest
adjacent exterior grade;
            (4)   The interior height of the crawl space measured from the
interior grade of the crawl to the top of the foundation wall must not exceed
four feet (4') at any point;
            (5)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawl space within a reasonable
period of time after a flood event;
            (6)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; and
            (7)   Utility systems within the crawl space must be elevated above
the flood protection elevation.
      2.   Nonresidential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed (in
lieu of elevation), provided a registered professional engineer or architect
certifies that:
         a.   Below the flood protection elevation, the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood;
         b.   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice;
         c.   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building
design and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity; and
         d.   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this subsection B2.
   C.   Permanent Manufactured Homes Or Travel Trailers: Manufactured homes or
travel trailers to be permanently installed on site shall be:
      1.   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with subsection B1 of this section; and
      2.   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by being
tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the Illinois mobile
home tiedown act issued pursuant to 77 Illinois administrative code part 870.
   D.   Travel Trailers And Recreational Vehicles: Travel trailers and
recreational vehicles on site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days per
year shall meet the elevation requirements of subsection C of this section
unless the following conditions are met:
      1.   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light duty
truck;
      2.   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times;
      3.   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches;
      4.   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping, travel,
or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling;
      5.   The vehicle's largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
four hundred (400) square feet;
      6.   The vehicle's wheels must remain on axles and inflated;
      7.   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement out of the floodplain;
      8.   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick disconnect and above the 100-year flood elevation;
      9.   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle or
park model; and
      10.   Must be either:
         a.   Entirely supported by jacks; or
         b.   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground and be supported by blocks in a manner that will allow the blocks to
be easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
   E.   Garages, Sheds Or Other Minor Accessory Structures: Garages, sheds or
other minor accessory structures constructed ancillary to an existing
residential use may be permitted, provided the following conditions are met:
      1.   The garage or shed must be nonhabitable.
      2.   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles and
tools and cannot be modified later into another use.
      3.   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate state and/or federal permits.
      4.   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be accessory
to an existing principal structure on the same lot.
      5.   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage.
      6.   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation.
      7.   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot (1') above grade with one square inch of opening
for every one square foot of floor area.
      8.   The garage or shed must be less than ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) in market value or replacement cost, whichever is greater, or less
than five hundred (500) square feet.
      9.   The structure shall be anchored to resist flotation and overturning.
      10.   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, etc.) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation.
      11.   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications. (Ord. 2007-04, 7-25-2007)
8-3-8: SUBDIVISION AND OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The village board of trustees shall take into account flood hazards, to
the extent that they are known, in all official actions related to land
management use and development.
   B.   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protection standards
of sections
8-3-6 and
8-3-7 of this chapter. Any proposal for such development shall include the
following data:
      1.   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain. Where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      2.   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
      3.   A signed statement by a licensed professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the plat act 1 .
   C.   Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible, the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds. (Ord. 2007-04, 7-25-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/2.
8-3-9: PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS:
   A.   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of sections
8-3-6 and
8-3-7 of this chapter, the following standards apply:
      1.   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of section
8-3-7 of this chapter.
      2.   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      3.   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      4.   New and replacement on site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other aboveground openings
located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight.
      5.   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
floodproofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation or three feet (3') above
the level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation, whichever is greater.
Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all critical facilities.
   B.   All other activities defined as "development" shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages. (Ord. 2007-04, 7-
25-2007)
8-3-10: CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION:
For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream maintenance
(including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse shall be
maintained. In addition, the village shall notify adjacent communities in
writing thirty (30) days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration
or relocation of the watercourse. (Ord. 2007-04, 7-25-2007)
8-3-11: VARIANCES:
   A.   Authority: Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship
on a specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the village
board of trustees for a variance, and the village board shall review the
applicant's request for a variance. The village board of trustees may attach
such conditions to the granting of a variance as it deems necessary to further
the intent of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-04, 7-25-2007; amd. per correspondence
dated 4-16-2013)
   B.   Standards For Variance Request: No variance shall be granted unless the
applicant demonstrates that all of the following conditions are met:
      1.   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain;
      2.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      3.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      4.   There will be no additional threat to public health or safety or
creation of a nuisance;
      5.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities;
      6.   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
      7.   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained.
   C.   Variances From Building Protection Standards:
      1.   The village board of trustees shall notify an applicant in writing
that a variance from the requirements of the building protection standards of
section
8-3-7 of this chapter that would lessen the degree of protection to a building
will:
         a.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
twenty five dollars ($25.00) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance
coverage;
         b.   Increase the risk to life and property; and
         c.   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge, in writing, the assumption of the risk and
liability.
      2.   Variances to the building protection requirements of section
8-3-7 of this chapter requested in connection with the reconstruction, repair
or alteration of a historic site or historic structure, as defined in the
definition of "historic structure" in section
8-3-2 of this chapter, may be granted using criteria more permissive than the
requirements of sections
8-3-6 and
8-3-7 of this chapter subject to the conditions that:
         a.   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure.
         b.   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure
being removed as a certified historic structure. (Ord. 2007-04, 7-25-2007)
8-3-12: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable for
regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the village or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that
results from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision
made lawfully hereunder. (Ord. 2007-04, 7-25-2007)
8-3-13: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.   Violation: Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain
or failure to comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be
deemed to be a violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the village
attorney may determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this
chapter exists. The village attorney shall notify the owner in writing of such
violation.
   B.   Injunction And Penalty: If such owner fails, after ten (10) days'
notice, to correct the violation:
      1.   The village shall make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter.
      2.   Any person who violates this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof,
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
      3.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
      4.   The village shall record a notice of violation on the title to the
property.
   C.   Insurance Suspension: The village attorney shall inform the owner that
any such violation is considered a wilful act to increase flood damages and,
therefore, may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be
suspended.
   D.   Suspension Of Development:
      1.   Stop Work Order: The village attorney is authorized to issue an
order requiring the suspension of the subject development. The stop work order
shall be in writing, indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the
action, if necessary, to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop work
order. The stop work order constitutes a suspension of the permit. (Ord. 2007-
04, 7-25-2007)
      2.   Hearing:
         a.   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or
revoked until a hearing is held by the village. Written notice of such hearing
shall be served on the permittee and shall state:
            (1)   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or
revocation; and
            (2)   The time and place of the hearing.
         b.   At such hearing, the permittee shall be given an opportunity to
present evidence on his behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the village
shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended or revoked. (Ord. 2007-
04, 7-25-2007; amd. per correspondence dated 4-16-2013)
   E.   Other Remedies: Nothing herein shall prevent the village attorney from
taking such other lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs
connected therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible. (Ord.
2007-04, 7-25-2007)
8-3-14: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the village board
of trustees to fulfill the requirements of the national flood insurance program
including the prior floodplain ordinance dated April 7, 2004. However, this
chapter does not repeal the original resolution or ordinance adopted to achieve
eligibility in the program, nor does this chapter repeal, abrogate, or impair
any existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. Where this chapter and
other ordinance easements, covenants, or deed restrictions overlap, whichever
imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 2007-04, 7-25-
2007)
TITLE 9
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Title
9-1-2: Purpose
9-1-3: Intent
9-1-4: Jurisdiction
9-1-5: Planning Commission
9-1-6: Applicability; Compliance
9-1-7: Subdivision Fees
9-1-8: Improvements
9-1-9: Bond Or Other Surety
9-1-10: Variances
9-1-11: Amendments
9-1-12: Building And Occupancy Permits
9-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and cited as the SUBDIVISION CONTROL REGULATIONS OF
THE VILLAGE. (1997 Code)
9-1-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this title is to establish the requirements and standards
regulating the subdivision and platting of land within the corporate limits and
plat approval jurisdiction of the village, and for the promotion of the public
health, safety, comfort, morals, and welfare of the community. (1997 Code)
9-1-3: INTENT:
The intent of these regulations is to provide for the orderly and harmonious
development of the village and surrounding areas within the village's planning
jurisdiction. (1997 Code)
9-1-4: JURISDICTION:
These subdivision control regulations shall be applicable to all lands within
the corporate limits of the village at any given time as well as the
unincorporated area within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the corporate
limits at any given time. (1997 Code)
9-1-5: PLANNING COMMISSION:
For the purpose of subdivision control, the planning commission shall consist
of a committee appointed by the president of the board of trustees. (1997 Code)
9-1-6: APPLICABILITY; COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Whenever the owner of land subdivides or plats any land within the
jurisdiction of this title, said land shall be surveyed and a plat made thereof
by a registered land surveyor containing information required hereinafter. All
such plats shall then be submitted to the village pursuant to the provisions of
this title.
   B.   No lot or tract of land shall be divided or redivided or in any manner
utilized for the purpose of erecting more than one principal building or unit
on such lot or tract of land without subdividing or resubdividing as set forth
in this title.
   C.   No plat of any subdivision of more than one lot and no dedication,
vacation, annexation, or plat of survey under the condominium act 1  shall be
valid nor entitled to record unless and until the same has been approved by the
board of trustees in accordance with procedures and standards hereinafter
provided, and no such plat, within the unincorporated area within one and one-
half (11/2) miles of the corporate limits at any given time, shall be approved
without compliance with the procedures and standards required as hereinafter
set forth. (1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 605/1 et seq.
9-1-7: SUBDIVISION FEES:
   A.   Filing Fees: The filing fees under this title relating to subdivision
control shall be as follows:
      1.   Preliminary plat application: One hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
      2.   Final plat application: One hundred dollars ($100.00), plus two
dollars ($2.00) per lot, plus costs for plat review and inspection as set forth
in subsection B of this section.
      3.   Add on condominium plat review: One hundred dollars ($100.00).
   B.   Costs For Plat Review And Subdivision Inspection: In consideration of
the expenses incurred by the village, both in professional and consulting fees,
and in time expended by village employees reviewing and inspecting subdivision
improvements, the developer or subdivider shall pay to the village one and one-
half percent (11/2%) of the estimated cost (as approved by the village
engineer) of construction of the public improvements in the proposed
subdivision. Such payment shall be due prior to the recording of the final plat
by the village. (1997 Code)
9-1-8: IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Statement Of Intent And Agreement (SIA):
      1.   Required Prior To Final Plat Approval: Before approval of any final
plat, the subdivider shall agree in a written statement of intent and agreement
(SIA) to be submitted to and approved by the board of trustees, to install and
construct right of way, utility, and other public improvements, to pay all
required fees, and to make all required donations in accordance with the
requirements of the ordinances of the village.
      2.   Completion Date Of Improvements: The SIA shall state the approximate
date when installation of public improvements will commence and a reasonable
date for completion of said public improvements. If the SIA does not otherwise
provide a completion date, the improvements shall be completed within three (3)
years of the date of final plat approval and recording.
      3.   Extension Of Time: An SIA may be amended to extend the time for
commencing and completing public improvements.
      4.   Binding Effect: An SIA shall be binding upon the successors, heirs,
and assigns of the subdivider or developer.
   B.   Completion Guarantee:
      1.   Surety Bond: Before approval of any final plat or SIA in such
platted subdivision, the subdivider shall guarantee the completion of the
public improvements to be installed or constructed in accordance with the SIA
and the ordinances of the village, together with all other commitments by the
subdivider, by submitting a corporate surety bond or other financing surety, in
a form to be approved by the village attorney.
      2.   Definition: For the purposes of this title, "other financing surety"
shall be defined as letters of credit, impound letters or similar devices made
by a sound and reputable financial institution whereby a sum of money is set
aside and restricted as payment for the performance of specific obligations by
the subdivider and which are irrevocable except by prior notice to the village.
   C.   Assignment, Transfer Or Conveyance Of Property: A subdivider may freely
assign, transfer, or convey property within a platted subdivision, but such
assignment, transfer, or conveyance shall not affect the principal obligation
of the subdivider to perform its obligations under this title or an executed
SIA without a written amendment to the SIA. The conveyance of property, within
a platted subdivision to grantees of such a subdivider shall render such
grantees responsible only for performance of a pro rata share of such
obligations in the event of default by the subdivider and the surety. (1997
Code)
9-1-9: BOND OR OTHER SURETY:
   A.   Requirements: A corporate surety bond or other financing surety
submitted in accordance with section
9-1-8 of this chapter to guarantee the completion of public improvements shall
be in an amount equal to one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the
estimated cost of installing and constructing said public improvements and
shall provide as follows:
      1.   Expiration Date: An expiration date not less than one year from the
date of issuance, or an express provision that such surety or bond will not
expire prior to completion and acceptance by the board of trustees of said
public improvements;
      2.   Written Notice: Written notice shall be given by certified or
registered mail to the village clerk as to the expiration date, if any, of the
surety bond not less than sixty (60) days before said expiration, and the
surety or bond shall not expire absent such notice;
      3.   Failure To Complete Improvements: Failure of the subdivider to
complete the public improvements secured by such surety or bond prior to the
scheduled completion date shall be considered a default by the subdivider and
the issuing institution;
      4.   Failure To Renew: Failure of the subdivider to submit a new surety
or bond in accordance with this section upon expiration of such surety or bond
shall be considered a default by the subdivider and the issuing institution;
      5.   Irrevocable: The surety or bond shall be irrevocable and shall be
clearly marked "irrevocable";
      6.   Discharge Or Reduction: The surety or bond will not be discharged or
reduced by the issuing institution except upon written certificate of the
village clerk that said surety or bond may be discharged or reduced in
accordance with this section and the amount of such discharge or reduction;
      7.   Costs Of Collection: The issuing institution will pay all attorney
fees and other costs reasonably incurred in enforcing collection of such
financing surety in the event that the issuer wrongfully fails to honor the
village's demand for payment under the terms of such surety or bond.
   B.   Modification Or Waiver Of Requirements: The requirements of subsection
A of this section may be modified or waived upon motion, resolution, or
ordinance of the village board if the board first determines that the
requirements of subsection A of this section would impose an unreasonable
hardship upon the subdivider and that the absence of a surety or bond submitted
in accordance with said subsection A of this section will not materially affect
the guarantee that the requirements of this title will be met.
   C.   Separate Sureties Or Bonds: A subdivider may, at its option, submit
separate sureties or bonds for each public improvement to be accepted.
   D.   Partial Reduction Or Discharge: A surety or bond submitted in
accordance with this section to guarantee the completion of public improvements
may be reduced or partially discharged prior to completion and acceptance of
such public improvements by the village board upon the following showing by the
subdivider and the certificate of the village engineer:
      1.   Statement Of Engineer: A sworn statement by the subdivider's
engineer of the cost of work performed and labor and materials provided toward
the completion of such improvement, an estimation of the amount and cost of
work, labor, and material remaining to be performed or provided in order to
complete such improvement.
      2.   Labor And Material Waivers Of Lien: Written waivers of lien for all
labor or material provided for such public improvement where public funds are
involved.
   E.   Restrictions For Partial Reduction Or Discharge: Any partial reduction
or discharge of a surety or bond submitted in accordance with this section to
guarantee completion of public improvements shall be subject to the following
restrictions:
      1.   No partial reduction or discharge approved on account of work
performed and labor and materials provided shall exceed the cost of such work,
labor, or materials;
      2.   No partial reduction or discharge shall be approved to the extent
that it would cause the balance of funds remaining to be less than one hundred
twenty five percent (125%) of the estimated cost of work, labor, and material
remaining to be performed or provided in order to complete such improvements;
      3.   A partial reduction or discharge of such financing surety may be
approved upon certificate of the village engineer, however, such certificate
shall not be construed as partial or complete acceptance of the improvement for
which said work was performed or labor and materials provided.
   F.   Request For Discharge:
      1.   Action By Board: When the subdivider has supplied all of the
documents or materials required by this title to be submitted in support of its
request for discharge of a surety or bond or acceptance of the public
improvement as completed, the village board shall approve or disapprove such
request within thirty (30) days of the subdivider's application.
      2.   Disapproval Of Request: If the subdivider's application is
disapproved, a written statement of the reasons for such disapproval shall be
given the subdivider.
      3.   Mutual Agreement To Extend: The subdivider and the village board may
mutually agree to extend the thirty (30) day period. In addition, the thirty
(30) day period shall be extended as necessary in the event that weather or
other events prevent the village from verifying the facts contained in the
subdivider's application.
   G.   Discharge; Maintenance Bond: A surety or bond submitted in accordance
with this section shall be discharged upon acceptance by the village board of
all improvements for which said surety or bond was submitted and submission of
a maintenance bond guaranteeing said improvement against defects in materials
or workmanship in the amount of ten percent (10%) of the estimated cost of said
improvement to be effective for a period of one year from the date of
acceptance.
   H.   Binding Effect: This section shall be binding upon and applicable to
all subdividers, developers, and successors in title of property which is
subdivided or platted in accordance with this title. (1997 Code)
9-1-10: VARIANCES:
Where the subdivider or developer can show that a provision or provisions of
the standards or improvements required by this title would cause unnecessary
hardship if strictly adhered to, or where because of the small size of the
tract of land or topographical or other conditions peculiar to the site or
surrounding conditions, a departure may be made without destroying the intent
and purpose of the provisions of this title. The village board, after
consideration thereof and recommendation thereon by the planning commission,
may waive or modify any requirements of this title to the extent the board
deems just and proper. (1997 Code)
9-1-11: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Board Amendments: The provisions and regulations for subdivision
control herein contained in this title may be amended from time to time by the
village board through the enactment of an amending ordinance which shall become
effective as of the date of its passage unless otherwise provided by the board.
   B.   Recommendations By Planning Commission: The planning commission may,
but is not required, from time to time to prepare and recommend in writing any
proposed change or addition to these provisions and regulations; however, no
public hearing before the planning commission or any commission or board shall
be required prior to the passage of any such amendatory ordinance. (1997 Code)
9-1-12: BUILDING AND OCCUPANCY PERMITS:
   A.   Bond, Surety Filed With Clerk: No building permit or occupancy permit
shall be issued for any building, structure, or improvement within a
subdivision approved in accordance with this title unless a valid and
enforceable corporate surety bond or other financing surety in accordance with
section
9-1-9 of this chapter is on file with the village to guarantee completion of
improvements in such subdivision which the subdivider is required to install
but which are not yet complete and/or accepted.
   B.   Individual Lot Owners: Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A
of this section, building and occupancy permits shall be issued to individual
lot owners (other than the defaulting subdivider or developer of the
subdivision), even though a valid and enforceable corporate surety bond or
other financing surety is not on file with the village, if the lot owner
deposits cash or a separate corporate surety bond or other financing surety
with the village in the amount of one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of
that lot's pro rata share of the estimated cost of all improvements remaining
to be completed as required by this title or an applicable SIA, said estimated
cost to be determined by the village engineer. Such funds shall be held for use
by the village for the completion of such remaining improvements. Upon
completion of all such improvements by the village, a pro rata share of any
remaining funds deposited under this subsection or surety proceeds shall be
refunded to such lot owner. In the event that all such improvements are
completed by the subdivider or developer as required by this title or an
applicable SIA, all such funds shall be refunded to such lot owner.
   C.   Compliance Required: No building permit shall be issued for the
construction of any building, structure, or improvement unless the owner of the
land upon which said building, structure, or improvement is to be constructed
has complied with the requirements of this title as applied to such property.
(1997 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PLAT PROCEDURES
SECTION:
9-2-1: Preapplication Conference
9-2-2: Preliminary Plat
9-2-3: Preliminary Plat Procedures
9-2-4: Final Plat
9-2-5: Certificates
9-2-6: Final Plat Procedures
9-2-7: Add On Condominium Plats
9-2-1: PREAPPLICATION CONFERENCE:
   A.   Planning Commission: Prior to the filing of an application for the
approval of a preliminary plat, the subdivider may consult with the planning
commission in order to gain its advice. In so doing, both the subdivider and
the planning commission can reach mutual conclusions regarding the general
concept and objectives of the proposed development and possible effects on the
neighborhood and the community.
   B.   Village Staff: A preapplication conference with the village staff may
be conducted at the discretion of the planning commission or upon the request
of the developer.
   C.   Planning Commission Meeting: Any meeting of the planning commission
shall be a part of a regularly scheduled meeting, be open to the public, and be
on the agenda in advance of said meeting. Recommendations during preapplication
meetings or concept reviews are advisory only for mutual benefit, do not
require formal application or fee and do not bind the village to approve any or
all of the preliminary plat. (1997 Code)
9-2-2: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Application; Required Information: When any owner of land lying within
the corporate limits of the village or within the area of platting jurisdiction
of the village desires to subdivide such lands, the owner shall submit to the
village clerk, along with an application for development approval and the
application fee, a preliminary plat on tracing cloth, mylar, or equivalent,
fifteen (15) prints or copies thereof, folded to approximately nine inch by
twelve inch (9" x 12") size, at a scale of one inch equals one hundred feet (1"
= 100') and shall show on its face the following information:
      1.   Name under which the proposed subdivision is to be recorded;
      2.   Legal description of property platted and total acreage included;
      3.   Date, scale, and north point;
      4.   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider, engineer, and land
surveyor preparing the plat;
      5.   The location, widths, and other dimensions of proposed streets,
alleys, easements, parks, playgrounds, and other open spaces proposed to be
dedicated for public use;
      6.   The blocks and lots into which the project is proposed to be
subdivided in sufficient detail to determine the character of the development;
and
      7.   Location and approximate dimensions of any sites to be reserved or
dedicated for parks, playgrounds, drainageways, or other public use or which
are to be used for multi-family housing, shopping centers, church sites, or
other nonpublic uses not requiring individual lots, including dimensions and
acreage.
   B.   Additional Information: The following information shall also be
provided as part of the preliminary plat submittal:
      1.   Contiguous Lands: The character of the immediately contiguous lands
to the proposed subdivision to a minimum distance of two hundred feet (200')
showing the subdivision thereof, if subdivided, and the location and dimension
of public streets, alleys, public utility easements, street pavements, sanitary
sewer mains, stormwater mains, retention and detention areas, water supply
mains, and electrical distribution systems, if any, adjoining the proposed
subdivision.
      2.   Information Map: A large scale information map showing the location
of the preliminary plat area.
      3.   Zoning: The zoning classification under the village or county zoning
ordinance, and the zoning of all surrounding land indicating the applicable
zoning authority (whether village or county).
      4.   Existing Improvements: The location within the proposed subdivision
of any existing public streets, alleys, public utility easements, street
pavements, sanitary sewer mains, storm sewer mains, water supply mains,
watercourses, bridges, culverts, electrical distribution system and similar
facilities; and the location of existing buildings, if any.
      5.   Circulation Plan: Complete sidewalk plan or pedestrian access and
circulation plan.
      6.   Corporate Boundaries: Location of existing corporate boundary lines
at or near the proposed subdivision.
      7.   Ground Elevations On Tract: For land that slopes less than five-
tenths percent (0.5%), show one foot (1') contours; show spot elevations at all
breaks in grades, along all drainage channels or swales, and at selected points
not more than one hundred feet (100') apart in all directions. For land that
slopes more than five-tenths percent (0.5%), show two foot (2') contours. Refer
to USGS datum in compiling data.
      8.   Floodplain Lines: Floodplain lines are to be delineated according to
the applicable USGS flood quadrangle or other documents adopted by the village
as part of floodplain regulations.
      9.   Preliminary Engineering: Sufficient detail will be required to
convey the general basis of design for the sewer, water, electric distribution,
stormwater runoff control, and flood control facilities.
      10.   Impact Studies: Traffic and other impact studies, if any.
      11.   Other Information: Such other information or data that the
subdivider feels the planning commission may require for the full and complete
consideration of the proposed plat of subdivision.
      12.   Restriction Summary: A summary of all restrictions, if any,
intended to be imposed by the final plat or by deeds of conveyance, including
the location, use, height, and bulk of buildings and any applicable land use,
design limitations, or planning schedules which the developer or subdivider
represents to the planning commission or board of trustees as restrictions upon
the developer's intended design, development, and use of the subject property.
      13.   Geological And Soil Analysis: Geological and soil analysis
examining the adequacy of the site for the development environment.
   C.   Dates And Titles: All documents, plats, supporting data, and the like
and revisions thereof shall be dated and properly titled and the date utilized
when referencing said provisions. (1997 Code)
9-2-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Developer Action: The preliminary plat shall be prepared in accordance
with this title and the subdivider shall file fifteen (15) copies along with
application for development approval to the village clerk at least one week in
advance of the meeting at which the planning commission shall review the
preliminary plat.
   B.   Planning Commission Action: The village clerk shall refer the
application to the planning commission, which shall, after receiving the
preliminary plat, hold such deliberations and request additional information as
it deems necessary to show compliance with the ordinances of the village. All
required material must be received at least one week prior to the planning
commission session at which it is to be considered. If the proposed plat of
subdivision is not satisfactory as presented, the planning commission shall
permit the subdivider to make changes and additions required by the planning
commission to meet the requirements of this title before submission of its
recommendation to the board of trustees.
   C.   Planning Commission Recommendation: The planning commission shall make
a recommendation of approval or disapproval of the plat. The planning
commission will forward the recommendation in writing to the village board,
including any conditions of approval or the reasons for disapproval and the
roll call vote. A recommendation of the planning commission to disapprove a
preliminary plat shall not prohibit the subdivider from seeking board approval
of the proposed plat.
   D.   Village Board Approval: After a recommendation on the preliminary plat
by the planning commission, it shall be returned to the village board for their
action. After the board has satisfied themselves that the preliminary plat is
in accordance with the requirements set forth in this title, and that the
planning commission has inspected all phases of the improvements and made its
recommendation, the board may accept, modify, or reject the recommendation of
the planning commission in its action upon the plat. The board may require such
special conditions in the approval of the preliminary plat as it may deem
necessary to ensure conformity with the requirements of the village ordinances.
Upon rejection of a preliminary plat, the plat shall be returned to the
subdivider by the village board with a written statement setting forth reasons
for said disapproval. An approved preliminary plat shall remain on file with
the village clerk.
   E.   Review Duration: The planning commission shall make its recommendation
on the proposed preliminary plat within thirty (30) days of referral to the
planning commission or the filing by the applicant of the last item of
supporting data, whichever date is later, unless such time is extended by
mutual consent. The village board shall accept or reject said plat within
thirty (30) days after its next regular stated meeting following the action of
the planning commission. (1997 Code)
9-2-4: FINAL PLAT:
A final plat shall be prepared on permanent material, tracing cloth, mylar, or
equivalent so as to be suitable for recording with the county recorder of deeds
at a scale of one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'). All revision dates
shall be shown as well as the following:
   A.   Contents:
      1.   The name and signature of the owner of record of the property.
      2.   The name, signature and seal of the registered land surveyor who
prepared the plat, and the date thereof.
      3.   The legal description of the property subdivided.
      4.   All measurements, dimensions, data, monuments, angular and linear
dimensions, and certificates shall be in accordance with section
9-2-5 of this chapter, the plat act 1  and any other statutes or county
requirements pertaining to recording.
      5.   All easements required for the installation of utilities (electric,
water, wastewater, gas, telephone and the like), along with a statement that
dedicates the easements as approved by the village.
      6.   All scenic, access, drainage, and other easements, along with a
statement that dedicates the easement as approved by the village.
      7.   Topographical and profile studies required by section 2 of the plat
act, if not previously supplied with the preliminary plat.
   B.   Supporting Documents: The following supporting documents and data shall
be submitted with said final plat:
      1.   A statement of intent and agreement by the subdivider, setting forth
the nature, kind, character, and the extent of all the improvements that will
be constructed in the subdivision, together with complete plans, detailed final
engineering, profiles, and specifications clearly describing the same, with
agreement to construct the same in accordance therewith, at his own expense,
within the time limit fixed by the board of trustees.
      2.   Any special studies or additional items required by the village.
      3.   Cost estimates and construction plans of all public improvements and
financing surety as required hereinafter.
      4.   A description and justification for any variation from the
preliminary plat and a description of any external factors which have changed
since the preliminary plat affecting the layout of the final plat.
      5.   Certificates and additional items required by section
9-2-5 of this chapter. (1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/1 et seq.
9-2-5: CERTIFICATES:
Subject to any amendments to the plat act or county requirements in addition to
this section, the certificates to be attached to or provided with the plat and
duly executed by the proper officers and persons before the plat is approved by
the village board and recorded, shall include the following:
   A.   Approval By Village Engineer: A letter from the village engineer
approving the construction plans. This letter shall not be recorded but shall
be retained by the village clerk.
   B.   Access Permit: Proof of acquisition of an access permit from either the
state or the relevant local highway authority as set forth in section 2 of the
plat act.
   C.   Local Health Authority Approval: Approval of the local health authority
with respect to sewage disposal systems if required by section 2 of the plat
act.
   D.   Certificate Of Surveyor: The certificate of a registered state land
surveyor attesting to the accuracy of the survey and the location of all
monuments shown, as required by section 2 of the plat act.
   E.   Acknowledgments: Notarized acknowledgments of the plat by the owner or
a duly authorized attorney, as required by section 2 of the plat act.
   F.   Certification Of Perpetual Maintenance: Certification of the owner as
to what provisions have been made for perpetual maintenance of drainage areas
and common areas. This certificate shall not be recorded but shall be retained
by the village clerk.
   G.   Covenants Or Restrictions: All covenants or restrictions including
homeowner association covenants relating to the property.
   H.   Drainage Statement: A signed statement of a registered, professional
engineer and the owner of the land or his duly authorized attorney respecting
drainage, as required by section 2 of the plat act.
   I.   Certificate Of Planning Commission: A certificate in substantially the
following form:
The final plat of this subdivision is recommended to the Village Board for []
approval by the Village of Divernon Planning Commission subject to the
certifications set forth in Section
9-2-5 of the Village Code of Ordinances; [] approval subject to the following
conditions: [insert conditions]; [] disapproval for the following reasons:
[insert reasons].
   By:                               
      Chair
         Village of Divernon Planning Commission
   Dated:                            
   J.   Certificate Of Board Of Trustees: A certificate in substantially the
following form:
Approved by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Divernon the        day of
               , 20     .
                     
         Village President
Attest:                      
         Village Clerk
(1997 Code)
9-2-6: FINAL PLAT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application For Final Approval; Fee:
      1.   Time Limitation:
         a.   Application for final approval of a plat shall be made to the
village clerk, along with the application fee and any impact fee, not later
than one year after preliminary approval has been granted for all parts of the
area preliminarily platted.
         b.   If after one year from the preliminary plat, no submission of a
final plat in conformance with the procedures contained herein has occurred,
the preliminary plat may be declared void by the board of trustees and returned
to the subdivider with an explanation of the action.
      2.   Simultaneous Approval: The preliminary and final plat may be filed
and approved simultaneously if all requirements hereof are met.
         a.   Partial Development: However, if desired by the subdivider, the
final plat may constitute only that portion of the approved preliminary plat
which he proposes to record and develop at that time.
         b.   Staged Development: Further, if the development is staged, all
staged final plats shall conform substantially to the preliminary plat as
approved. Approval for the final plat may be submitted in stages with each
stage reflecting a portion of the approved preliminary plat which is proposed
to be recorded and developed; however, such portion shall conform to all
requirements of these regulations.
The final plat shall be essentially in accord with the preliminary plat.
   B.   Planning Commission Action: The village clerk shall refer the final
plat to the planning commission. After review of the final plat, the planning
commission shall recommend approval or disapproval and the reasons therefor, to
the board of trustees. The chair of the planning commission, after formal
approval of the board of trustees, shall suitably endorse the plat in the name
of the planning commission.
   C.   Statement Of Intent And Agreement: The village attorney and engineer
will review and recommend all supporting documents, including engineering and
financial surety documentation. A statement of intent and agreement (SIA) shall
be completed by the subdivider which summarizes and includes all agreements
between the subdivider and the village.
   D.   Approval: When and if the board of trustees is satisfied with the final
plat and SIA along with all improvements, conditions, documents, and financial
surety hereinafter noted, pertaining to said subdivision, the board shall by
motion or resolution approve the plat and SIA and authorize and direct the
president and the village clerk to sign the plat for, and in the name of, the
village, and the village clerk shall attach hereto the corporate seal.
   E.   Recording: The village clerk shall have the final plat and SIA recorded
in the office of the county recorder. Said final plat after recording shall be
returned to the office of the village clerk and a copy thereof shall be
maintained on file. The original of the final plat shall be returned to the
subdivider.
   F.   Review Duration: When the developer has supplied all drawings, maps,
and other documents required by the village ordinances to be furnished in
support thereof, and if all such material meets village requirements, the
village board shall approve the proposed plat within thirty (30) days from the
date of filing application for approval of the final plat or within thirty (30)
days from the date of filing the last required document, whichever is later.
The applicant and the village board may mutually agree to extend the thirty
(30) day period. (1997 Code)
9-2-7: ADD ON CONDOMINIUM PLATS:
   A.   Condominium Plat: Whenever additional property is being added to an add
on condominium in accordance with the provisions of 765 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 605/5, as now or hereafter amended, the developer or authorized
officer of the condominium shall prepare a condominium plat on permanent
material, tracing cloth, mylar, or equivalent so as to be suitable for
recording with the county recorder of deeds at a scale of one inch equals fifty
feet (1" = 50'). All revision dates shall be shown as well as the following:
      1.   Legal description of the property subject to the add on condominium;
      2.   The name, signature, and seal of the registered land surveyor who
prepared the plat and the date thereof;
      3.   All measurements, details and, other matters as are required by the
Illinois Compiled Statutes to be shown on an add on condominium plat.
   B.   Developer Action: Application for add on condominium plat approval
shall be submitted to the village clerk, together with fifteen (15) copies of
such plat and the application fee and any impact fees.
   C.   Planning Commission Action: The village clerk shall refer the
application to the planning commission, which shall review the application and
plat and render a report to the board of trustees. The planning commission is
authorized to recommend approval of an add on condominium plat to the board if
it determines that the add on condominium plat is in substantial conformance to
the terms and conditions of the final subdivision or planned unit development
plat approved for such property. If the planning commission determines that
such add on condominium plat is not in substantial conformance to the terms and
conditions of the previously approved final subdivision plat, the planning
commission shall recommend disapproval of such plat, and the reasons therefor,
to the board.
   D.   Village Board Approval:
      1.   Approval: After a recommendation on the add on condominium plat by
the planning commission and after the board has satisfied itself that the
proposed add on condominium plat is in accordance with the requirements of this
title and in substantial conformance with the terms and conditions of the
previously approved final plat for such property, the board shall, by motion or
resolution, approve such plat and authorize and direct the president and
village clerk to sign and attest such plat for, and in the name of the village,
and the village clerk shall attach the corporate seal thereto.
      2.   Denial: If the board determines that such add on condominium plat is
not in accordance with the requirements of this title or is not in conformance
with the terms and conditions of the previously approved final plat for such
property, the board may reject such plat or require such special conditions to
approval of the plat as may be necessary to ensure conformity with the
requirements of this title and/or the terms and conditions of the previously
approved final plat for such property. Upon disapproval, a written statement
setting forth the reasons for such disapproval shall be given the developer.
   E.   Recording Of Plat: The village clerk shall cause the add on condominium
plat to be recorded in the office of the county recorder of deeds. Said add on
condominium plat, after recording, shall be returned to the office of the
village clerk and a copy thereof shall be maintained on file. The original of
the add on condominium plat shall be returned to the developer.
   F.   Review Duration:
      1.   Planning Commission: The planning commission shall render its report
within thirty (30) days of the filing of the application for approval of the
add on condominium plat or within thirty (30) days from the date of filing the
last required document, whichever is later.
      2.   Board Of Trustees: When the developer has supplied all of the
drawings and documents required by the village ordinances to be furnished in
support thereof and if all such material meets village requirements, the
village board of trustees shall approve the proposed add on condominium plat
within thirty (30) days from receipt of the report of the planning commission.
The applicant and the board may mutually agree to extend the thirty (30) day
period. (1997 Code)
CHAPTER 3
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Stormwater Runoff Control
9-3-2: Public Utilities
9-3-3: Right Of Way Improvements
9-3-4: Acceptance Of Streets And Improvements
9-3-5: Financing Of Certain Improvements
9-3-1: STORMWATER RUNOFF CONTROL:
   A.   System Required: An adequate system of stormwater runoff control
drainage shall be constructed and installed in accordance with sound
engineering practices as determined by the village engineer.
   B.   Compliance: Compliance must be maintained with the floodplain, zoning,
and all other ordinances of the village and with the plat act 1 .
   C.   Natural Drainageways: All natural water drainageways shall be preserved
at their natural gradient unless otherwise determined by the village engineer.
   D.   Drainage Channels, Slopes, And Swales: Drainage channels, slopes, and
swales will be established on the lots by the developer for the convenience of
moving surface water to the street or public storm sewer and area to be
maintained continuously by the lot owner.
   E.   Obstruction Prohibited: No material shall be moved from or placed on
any lot which obstructs, retards or changes the direction of water flow through
these channels or swales.
   F.   Penalty: Any person convicted of violating this section shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/1 et seq.
9-3-2: PUBLIC UTILITIES:
   A.   Sanitary Sewer:
      1.   Sanitary Sewer Mains: Sanitary sewer mains shall be constructed to
village standards and procedures throughout the entire subdivision in such
manner as to serve adequately all lots and tracts with connection to a public
sanitary sewage system.
      2.   Private Septic Systems: Private septic systems are allowed if public
sewer service is not readily available and all the requirements of the county
health officer and the Illinois environmental protection agency or other
appropriate governmental agencies are met.
      3.   Connection Required: All areas within the village limits or areas
upon annexation shall be required to connect onto a public system when it
becomes readily available unless within a zoning district specifically allowing
private septic systems.
   B.   Water Supply:
      1.   Water Mains: Water mains shall be constructed to village standards
and procedures throughout the entire subdivision in such manner as to serve
adequately all lots and tracts with connection to such public system together
with shutoff valves and fire hydrants.
      2.   Private Well Systems: Private well systems are allowed if public
water service cannot be made available and all applicable local, county, and
state codes are met.
      3.   Connection Required: All areas within the corporate limits and all
areas upon annexation shall be required to connect onto a public system when
available unless within a zoning district specifically allowing private wells.
   C.   Electric And Gas Service: Electric and gas service will be provided for
all areas within the village.
   D.   Drainage Easements: Designated drainage shall be placed in drainage
easements. A minimum five foot (5') easement will be provided for any drainage
facility which collects or channelizes individual lot drainage. A minimum ten
foot (10') easement will be provided for any drainage facility which collects
or transports stormwater drainage from over two (2) individual lots. A drainage
easement shall be granted for all areas designated as retention or detention in
the drainage plans of the subdivision. An easement of a minimum of five feet by
five feet (5' x 5') offset from any drainage facility and outside any easement
required for drainage shall be provided for electrical transformers and
telephone junction centers. All required easements shall be shown on the
engineering plans required by this title. Easements required by this subsection
may also be used for the installation of utility facilities which do not
interfere with the use of easements for drainage purposes.
   E.   Telephone Boxes And Electrical Transformers: Electrical transformers
and telephone junction boxes shall not be placed in any portion of a designated
drainage or stormwater control facility.
   F.   Storm Drainage Systems: An adequate storm drainage system shall be
designed in accordance with the storm drainage regulations of the village.
      1.   Lot Grading And Foundation Elevation Plan: There shall be submitted
for approval by the village engineer, at the time of final plat approval, a lot
grading and foundation elevation plan. It shall show at each lot corner the
proposed USGS elevation for that point. Arrows drawn along all lot lines shall
show the direction of drainage flow. The top of the foundation shall be shown
by a USGS elevation. That elevation shall be noted inside the symbol for the
structure location on the lot. Where there is more than one foundation level
for the structure, the elevation for the lowest foundation level shall be
shown.
      2.   Foundation Elevation: The foundation elevation shall be such that
the lot drainage be designed to run away from the top of the foundation. In the
event that conditions dictate that some parts of the lot be higher than the
structure foundation, the grading plan will show specific drainage
configurations for the lot specifying that all drainage is directed away from
the foundation.
   G.   Engineering And Inspection: Improvements for sanitary sewer, water
main, storm sewer, road, concrete curb and gutter, electric street lighting
lines, electrical distribution system, drainage, and appurtenances thereto,
shall be submitted to the village engineer for approval before final
disposition has been made of the subdivision plat. Any reports required by the
applicable soil and water conservation service shall also be submitted.
   H.   Standards And Practices: The village standards and practices referred
to in subsections A through G of this section shall be established by ordinance
and included in chapter 4 of this title.
   I.   Permits: The developer will apply for and pay for any permits required
for installation of utilities.
   J.   Penalty: Any person convicted of violating this section shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1997 Code)
9-3-3: RIGHT OF WAY IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Streets: Public streets shall be provided to afford convenient access
to all property within the subdivision. Private streets are permitted only if
they are required by the design or ownership of the subdivision and can be
demonstrated to be to the long term benefit of the community. Private streets
are permitted only if covenants or agreements acceptable to the village are
provided which guarantee maintenance of such streets in perpetuity at no cost
to the village. Private streets will not be allowed if a public street is
feasible.
      1.   The proposed street system shall extend existing adjoining streets.
If the extension is not practical, the planning commission may recommend
otherwise.
      2.   Where, in the opinion of the planning commission, it is desirable to
provide for street access to adjoining property, the planning commission may
recommend that proposed streets be extended by dedication to the boundary of
the property being platted.
      3.   The street layout shall recognize the functional classification of
the various types of streets and shall be developed and located in proper
relation to existing and proposed streets, to the topography, to such natural
features as rivers and tree growth, to public convenience and safety, to the
proposed use of the land to be served by such streets, and to the most
advantageous development of adjoining areas. The subdivision shall be designed
to provide each lot with satisfactory access to a public street.
   B.   Half Streets: In the event any proposed street right of way is at the
edge of a subdivision and only half the proposed right of way falls within the
subdivision, the road will be built to allow two (2) moving lanes of traffic
(24 feet of pavement) as a minimum. If the road benefits primarily the
subdivider, the planning commission may recommend full improvement of the road.
   C.   Access Streets: Where deemed necessary, the planning commission may
recommend access streets be required to service areas fronting on major
thoroughfares.
   D.   Alleys: The planning commission may recommend alleys or private service
roads be provided at the rear of all lots or tracts intended for business,
commercial, industrial, and multi-family residential building uses.
   E.   Curbs And Gutters: Suitable curbs and gutters shall be constructed on
both sides of all streets in accordance with standards established by
ordinance.
   F.   Sidewalks: Suitable sidewalks shall be constructed on both sides of all
streets in accordance with standards established by ordinance.
   G.   Street Lighting: Street lighting, including underground service cable,
shall be provided by the subdivider throughout a subdivision, using material,
equipment, and methods approved by the applicable electric utility supply
service to the area.
   H.   Street Signs: Street signs, as required by village ordinances, shall be
provided at all street intersections.
   I.   Trees: If any trees or plants are proposed to be planted on any part of
the subdivision devoted to public use, the species of trees and location
thereof shall be subject to the approval and direction of the village engineer.
   J.   Off Street Parking: All off street parking requirements shall be in
accordance with the provisions of the village zoning ordinance and other
provisions of this code.
   K.   Bench Marks: Bench marks certified and approved by the village engineer
are required prior to the issuance of a building permit in proximity to the
site for which said permit is required. Temporary bench marks are allowed until
such time as permanent bench marks are installed. Permanent bench marks shall
be established by the village engineer.
   L.   Established By Ordinance: The village standards and practices referred
to in subsections A through K of this section shall be established by ordinance
and included in chapter 4 of this title.
   M.   Penalty: Any person convicted of violating this section shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1997 Code)
9-3-4: ACCEPTANCE OF STREETS AND IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Improvement Plans; Fees: All improvement plans shall be submitted by
the planning commission to the village engineer and the superintendent of
public works for approval before final plat approval. Fees for the review and
inspection of any improvement are included in the subdivision review fee
provided in subsection 9-1-7B of this title.
   B.   Map: Upon completion of the construction in place of all service
connections with utility mains and gas distribution systems, three (3) copies
of an accurate map or maps showing the exact location of all mains and the gas
distribution systems, together with manholes, shutoff valves, and other similar
facilities being a part thereof, by distances in feet from street lines, and
the side lot lines, approved by the village engineer shall be filed with the
village clerk who shall retain one copy in the permanent records of the village
and give the other copies to appropriate village employees for their official
files.
   C.   Certification; Connections; Liability:
      1.   Certification By Village Engineer: Improvements shall be acceptable
by the board of trustees after completion of certification by the village
engineer that all construction is in accordance with previously approved plans
and specifications.
      2.   Connection To Systems; Fees: No permanent connections shall be made
to sanitary sewer or water facilities or gas distribution systems by the
subdivider, his agents and employees, until after the certification has been
made by the engineer and approval by the village board, and then only after
proper fees and monies have been paid to the village, as set forth in this
title, and connection fees as set forth elsewhere in this code.
      3.   Liability For Damages: Further, the village shall not be liable for
any damages that may occur on any dedicated road within a new subdivision that
has not been accepted as completed by motion of the village board, and the
subdivider, his agents and employees, shall save the village free and harmless
from any and all claims that may be submitted.
   D.   Maintenance Bond:
      1.   Deposit, Letters Of Credit, Bond: No improvements shall be accepted
by the village until the subdivider shall provide a cash deposit, irrevocable
letters of credit (in a form approved by the village attorney), or a
maintenance bond equal to ten percent (10%) of the estimated cost of the
improvements.
      2.   Duration: This deposit shall be a guarantee of satisfactory
performance of the improvements constructed within the subdivision and shall be
held by the village for a period of twelve (12) months after acceptance of such
facilities by the village.
      3.   Refund: After such twelve (12) months, the deposit shall be refunded
if no defects in materials or workmanship have developed, or if any defects
have developed, then the balance of such deposit shall be refunded after
reimbursement of the village for amounts expended in correcting defective
improvements.
      4.   Release Of Performance Guarantee: The deposit under this subsection
shall be made immediately upon completion and approval of the construction of
said improvements, and the performance guarantee for the improvements shall
thereupon be released.
   E.   Snow And Ice Removal:
      1.   Violation: The subdivider shall be responsible for keeping clear of
ice and snow all dedicated streets within the subdivision which have been
improved but not yet accepted by the village. If the subdivider fails to clear
ice and snow from any such street within six (6) hours of any snowfall, such
failure shall be considered a violation of the provisions of this section.
      2.   Agreement: The subdivider may fulfill the obligations imposed by
subsection E1 of this section by entering into an agreement with the village
whereby the village shall clear such streets of ice and snow in consideration
of the subdivider's agreement to hold the village harmless for any damage to
subdivision street improvements resulting from ice and snow removal, and to
repair any such damages prior to acceptance of such street improvements by the
village.
   F.   Penalty: Any person convicted of violating this section shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1997 Code)
9-3-5: FINANCING OF CERTAIN IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Whenever this title requires the installation of water mains, sanitary
sewers, drains, or other facilities for sewers and drains as a condition
precedent to the acceptance of a final map of any subdivision or plat, and
where, in the opinion of the board of trustees such facilities may be used for
the benefit of property not in the subdivision, and such water mains, sanitary
sewers, drains, or other facilities are to be dedicated to the public, the
board of trustees may by contract with the subdivider agree to reimburse and
may reimburse the subdivider for a portion of the cost of such facilities from
fees charged to owners of the property not within the subdivision, when and as
collected from such owners.
      1.   Such contract shall describe the property outside the subdivision
which may reasonably be expected to benefit from the facilities which are
required to be constructed under the contract and shall specify the amount or
proportion of the cost of such facilities which is to be incurred primarily for
the benefit of that property.
      2.   Such contract shall provide that the village shall collect such fees
charged to owners of property not within the subdivision prior to the
connection to and use of the said facilities by the respective properties of
each owner 1 .
   B.   Any contract entered into between the board of trustees and a
subdivider pursuant to subsection A of this section shall be filed with the
county recorder. The recording of the contract in this manner shall serve to
notify persons interested in such property of the fact that there will be a
charge in relation to such property for the connection to and use of the
facilities constructed under the contract 2 . (1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/9-5-1.
2 1. 65 ILCS 5/9-5-2.
CHAPTER 4
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-4-1: State Specifications
9-4-2: Street Rights Of Way
9-4-3: Street Design
9-4-4: Lot And Block Design
9-4-5: Erosion And Sediment Control
9-4-6: Utility Easements; Location
9-4-7: Surface Water Drainage
9-4-8: Sidewalks
9-4-9: Sewage Disposal
9-4-10: Water Supply
9-4-11: Electric Distribution
9-4-12: Street Lighting
9-4-13: Public Areas And Open Space
9-4-1: STATE SPECIFICATIONS:
Unless stated otherwise in this chapter, all construction of public
improvements shall be performed in accordance with the latest revised edition
of the "State Of Illinois Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction" adopted by the Illinois department of transportation and the
"Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In Illinois". If
an engineering design or construction situation arises not covered by the above
cited standard specifications or in the following sections, the decision of the
village engineer shall be followed. (1997 Code)
9-4-2: STREET RIGHTS OF WAY:
   A.   Location And Width: The location and width of all streets shall conform
to the arterial roadway network plan. The minimum width of a street right of
way (ROW) shall be as shown on the arterial roadway network plan, or if not
shown on the plan, shall not be less than the following:
 
Major arterial            110 - 210 feet ROW
Minor arterial            80 - 100 feet ROW
Collector street          60 feet ROW
Local street              60 feet ROW
Alley                     20 feet ROW
Existing township highway 80 feet ROW
 
   B.   Additional Right Of Way: Additional right of way may be required for
drainage, slope maintenance or other reasons not directly related to street
classification.
   C.   Existing Streets: For subdivisions that adjoin existing streets,
additional right of way shall be dedicated, as needed, to meet the above
requirements. This shall be done as follows:
      1.   The entire additional right of way shall be provided when the
subdivision is located on both sides of the existing street.
      2.   One-half (1/2) of the required right of way shall be provided when
the subdivision is located on only one side of the existing street. However, in
no case shall the resulting right of way width be less than sixty feet (60').
(1997 Code)
9-4-3: STREET DESIGN:
The following requirements shall be incorporated into the design of all
streets:
   A.   Vertical Alignment: The maximum grade on a major or minor arterial
shall be five percent (5%). The maximum grade on all other streets shall be
eight percent (8%). The minimum grade on all streets shall be forty hundredths
percent (0.40%). All street grades shall be subject to the approval of the
village engineer.
   B.   Horizontal Alignment:
      1.   Horizontal Curves: When a centerline deflection angle is greater
than one degree (1°), the following curves will be required in the street:
major and minor arterials and collector streets shall have a minimum centerline
radius of three hundred feet (300') and a minimum length of curve of one
hundred feet (100'); arterials and collectors having a design speed and/or
expected posted speed greater than thirty (30) miles per hour shall be
consistent with the latest revision of the horizontal curvature requirements of
AASHTO, "A Policy On Geometric Design Of Highways And Streets" for the
appropriate roadway classification; all other types of streets shall have a
minimum centerline radius of one hundred feet (100'). The pavement in all cases
shall be wide enough to allow the movement of a WB-50 design vehicle, as
described in the state of Illinois, department of transportation design manual.
      2.   Intersections: Intersections of major and minor arterials and
collectors with roadways of the same classes shall not be closer than one-
fourth (1/4) of a mile from any other such functionally classed roadway
intersections. These intersections shall be located at the quarter mile grid
points.
      3.   Street Offsets: Street centerline offsets shall not be less than one
hundred twenty five feet (125'), unless otherwise warranted to the satisfaction
of the village engineer.
      4.   Curb Corners: All curb corners shall have a minimum radius of twenty
five feet (25').
   C.   Pavement Construction: Pavements shall be installed in accordance with
the following standards:
      1.   Minor Streets: All minor streets shall be constructed as follows:
         a.   Base course: Four inch (4") bituminous aggregate mixture or six
inch (6") pugmilled crushed stone - gradation CA-6.
         b.   Surface: One and three-fourths inch (13/4") bituminous concrete
binder - class I (A binder).
         c.   One and three-fourths inch (13/4") bituminous concrete surface -
class I gradation of coarse aggregate shall be CA-16.
      2.   Arterials And Collector Streets: All major and minor arterials and
collector streets shall be designed in accordance with section 7, "Pavement
Design", of the "Design Manual Of The State Of Illinois, Department Of
Transportation, Division Of Highways, Bureau Of Design", or the latest revision
thereof.
   D.   Pavement Width:
      1.   Overall Width: All streets shall be improved with pavements to an
overall width in accordance with the following general guidelines:
 
Type Of Street Pavement Width (Edge Of Pavement To Edge Of Pavement)
Major arterial 40 feet minimum
Minor arterial 32 feet
Collector      27 feet
Local          27 feet
 
      2.   Minimum Width: The minimum pavement width shall be twenty seven feet
(27') from edge of pavement to edge of pavement, not including the curb and
gutter. Different widths may be used depending on the anticipated traffic
volumes and parking demand. These widths of pavement shall be determined by the
planning commission and the village engineer in consultation with the engineer
for the subdivider. If a pavement width narrower than the minimum stated in
subsection D1 of this section results from this consultation, the subdivider
shall install no parking signs at his expense.
   E.   Curb And Gutter:
      1.   Flexible Pavement: The standard curb and gutter required adjacent to
flexible pavement shall be a mountable type constructed of portland cement
concrete with the following dimensions: twenty four inches (24") wide, eight
inches (8") thick on the front face (pavement side), ten inches (10") thick on
the back face, seven inches (7") thick at centerline (flow line), and a ten
inch (10") radius in the flow line.
      2.   Concrete Pavement: The curb and gutter adjacent to concrete
pavement, if poured monolithically, may be limited to the thickness of the
pavement.
      3.   Barrier Type Curb And Gutter: In subdivisions proposed to have
streets with an anticipated daily traffic volume of two thousand five hundred
(2,500) or more, a barrier type curb and gutter similar to type B6.18 as
described in the state of Illinois, department of transportation, highway
standards shall be used. Other locations where a barrier type curb and gutter
are required shall be determined by the engineer for the subdivision and the
village engineer.
   F.   Pavement Crown: The minimum crown used on all pavements shall be one-
fourth inch (1/4") per foot measured from the edge of the pavement to the
centerline of the street.
   G.   Cul-De-Sac Streets: Local streets that are also cul-de-sac streets
shall be no more than six hundred feet (600') long unless necessitated by
topography in which case they shall be no longer than one thousand feet
(1,000'), unless provision is made for an interim turnaround with a radius
sufficient to accommodate emergency vehicles and/or a median entrance (see
subsection I of this section). A turnaround shall be provided at the closed end
having an outside roadway diameter of at least eighty six feet (86') edge to
edge of pavement and a street right of way diameter of one hundred ten feet
(110'). No obstructions shall be permitted in the cul-de-sac turnaround.
   H.   Stub Streets: Access shall be provided to adjoining property not yet
subdivided. Proposed streets shall be extended by dedication to the boundary of
such unsubdivided property. At the end of all temporary stub streets, a
barricade meeting the provisions of the "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic
Control Devices" shall be installed by the subdivider. Stub streets in excess
of two hundred fifty feet (250') shall be provided with a temporary cul-de-sac
with an outside roadway diameter of at least ninety feet (90'). The type of
construction shall be determined by the village engineer. The subdivider shall
dedicate a temporary easement to the appropriate street authority in the amount
needed in excess of the normally required right of way for the temporary
turnaround. When the street is extended in the future, the extra turnaround
pavement shall be removed and curb and gutters and sidewalks constructed by the
subdivider who constructed the temporary pavement or by the subsequent lot
owner.
   I.   Multiple Access: Any area of development containing seventy (70) or
more single-family lots (or equivalent population) shall be served by two (2)
functioning points of access. Where higher densities of development are
proposed, a divided type entrance roadway may suffice with a median of adequate
width to ensure continued emergency access lanes on one side. Depending on
location and height of nearby poles or trees, the required median width shall
range between twelve feet (12') and thirty feet (30'). This type of roadway
construction is intended to accommodate higher density developments and not to
lengthen the overall length of a cul-de-sac.
   J.   Restriction Of Access: When a subdivision or a portion of it adjoins a
major or minor arterial, no lot shall have direct access to the arterial. The
lot shall have adequate depth for screen planting on the portion of the lot
contiguous to the major or minor arterial.
   K.   Street Names And Street Signs:
      1.   Street Names: A proposed street that is in alignment with and/or
joins an existing named street shall bear the name of the existing street. In
no case shall the proposed name of a street duplicate the name of an existing
street within the plat jurisdiction of this title. The use of the suffix
street, avenue, boulevard, driveway, place, court or similar description shall
not be a distinction sufficient to constitute compliance with this requirement.
      2.   Street Name Signs: Street name signs shall be erected at all
intersections within the village's jurisdiction at the expense of the
subdivider and shall be subject to the specifications of the "Illinois Manual
On Uniform Traffic Control Devices".
   L.   Private Streets: There shall be no private streets platted in any
subdivision. Every subdivision lot shall be served from a publicly dedicated
street.
   M.   Alleys: Alleys are not recommended in residential subdivisions unless
deemed necessary by the planning commission.
   N.   Ramps: Where sidewalks cross a barrier type curb and gutter as
described in subsection E of this section, ramps shall be constructed to
accommodate the handicapped. These ramps shall be constructed to the lines and
grades shown on the standard sidewalk ramp example. Inlets for storm drainage
shall not be located so that a pedestrianway will be interrupted by the inlet
grates. Other locations where these ramps are required shall be determined by
the village engineer.
   O.   Typical Street Section:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c8b57f459914936cd0fa6af48902856ffb9c13c0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-936.gif]
   P.   Medians And Islands:
      1.   Where medians or islands are proposed they shall be constructed with
barrier curbing. All medians and islands shall be the responsibility of the
subdivider and/or a subdivision association to maintain. No sign may be
installed in the median which blocks the sight distance at the intersection. If
such a sign is to be installed, detailed plans for the sign shall be submitted
with the construction plans for approval. In no case shall an island or median
contain any other sign or structure except as may be placed for traffic control
under the direction of the village engineer.
      2.   The subdivider or subdivision association may landscape medians or
islands. Ground cover may not exceed a maximum height of twelve inches (12").
Any additional living plant material must be maintained to allow visibility
across, over or through medians and islands at a height of three feet (3') to
ten feet (10') above the adjacent roadway pavements. (1997 Code)
9-4-4: LOT AND BLOCK DESIGN:
   A.   Size Of Lots: Minimum lot sizes shall be the minimum for the applicable
zoning district, except when a private sewage disposal system is necessary.
When a private sewage disposal system will be used for any length of time, lots
shall be a minimum of twenty thousand (20,000) square feet.
   B.   Lot Arrangement:
      1.   Side Lot Lines: Side lot lines shall be at right angles to straight
street lines or substantially radial to curved street lines. However, for
purposes of solar orientation, side lot lines need not be at right angles to
straight street lines or radial to curved street lines; provided, that side lot
lines run within twenty degrees (20°) east or west from due north to due south.
If side lot lines are being varied for solar orientation, layout and building
setbacks shall also be oriented with their long axis running from east to west,
with a possible variation of twenty degrees (20°) to the southwest or twenty
degrees (20°) to the southeast.
      2.   Street Frontage: Each lot shall front upon a public street.
      3.   Flag Lots: Flag lots shall be permitted only if the planning
commission determines that no public health and safety problems or additional
costs or difficulties providing municipal services will result.
      4.   Through Lots: Through lots shall be permitted only when access is
prohibited to one street as described in subsection 9-4-3J of this chapter.
      5.   Buildable Area: All lots must contain sufficient buildable area.
   C.   Sizes Of Blocks: Blocks shall not be less than four hundred feet (400')
nor more than one thousand two hundred feet (1,200') in length measured along
the greatest dimension of the enclosed block area. In blocks over eight hundred
feet (800') in length, the planning commission may require one or more public
crosswalks with a right of way of not less than ten feet (10') in width to
extend entirely across the block at locations deemed necessary at intervals not
closer than four hundred feet (400').
   D.   Survey Monuments: All survey monuments shall be located and be made of
the appropriate material as required by state law.
   E.   Lot Grading:
      1.   Trees that cannot be saved, stumps, boulders and similar items shall
be removed.
      2.   All grading in the subdivision shall be related to the topography of
the surrounding area. All street embankments shall be raised at least one and
one-half feet (11/2') above the high water elevation.
      3.   All building lots shall be graded or have natural slopes that will
properly allow surface drainage to flow away from the principal structures to
be located on the lot.
      4.   Grading in the subdivision shall provide alternate drainage ways for
the purpose of carrying water away from homes and preventing damage during
periods of heavy rainfall. (1997 Code)
9-4-5: EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL:
   A.   Construction Stage: During construction of public improvements,
measures shall be taken to control erosion and sedimentation to ensure that
sediments will not be transported from the site by a storm event of 2-year
frequency or less. The erosion and sediment control plan shall include measures
to stabilize and protect disturbed areas, keep runoff velocities low, retain
sediment on site and protect disturbed areas from runoff. The location, type
and configuration of controls such as swales, berms, dams, sediment basins and
release mechanisms shall be included with the construction plans.
   B.   Subsequent To Final Grading: Temporary or permanent soil stabilization
measures, whichever is applicable, shall be applied within fifteen (15) days
after final grading to all areas where the soil has been disturbed or the
vegetative cover removed. Seeding mixtures and rates, types of sod, method of
seed bed preparation, expected seeding dates, type and rate of lime and
fertilizer application and kind and quantity of mulch for temporary or
permanent vegetative control measures shall be included with the construction
plans. (1997 Code)
9-4-6: UTILITY EASEMENTS; LOCATION:
   A.   Utility Easements:
      1.   Along Lot Lines: Utility easements shall be provided along front,
rear or side lot lines for the purpose of erecting and maintaining one or more
of the following facilities: storm sewers, sanitary sewers, surface drainage,
gas mains, overhead and/or underground electric lines, telephone lines, cable
TV and such other utilities reasonably required for an urban structure.
      2.   Minimum Width: Easements shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') in
width. A utility may be located in the street right of way if the respective
company so desires and appropriate permits have been obtained.
      3.   Alternate Locations: Alternate locations for various utilities shall
be decided upon by the appropriate utility companies, subject to the approval
of the village engineer. In no case shall streets, permanent buildings or other
manmade improvements that obstruct surface drainage be placed on rear or side
lot easements.
      4.   Installation; Notice To Utilities: It is the responsibility of the
subdivider to notify all utility companies in writing when the land to be
developed has been graded in accordance with construction plans and is ready
for installation of a given utility.
   B.   Location Of Utilities:
      1.   Utilities, (sewers, electric, water and gas), whenever possible,
shall be located in the public right of way or front lot easement in the
following manner: water and electric lines shall be located on the south and
east sides; sanitary sewer and gas lines shall be located on the north and west
sides. In some cases, however, electric lines may also be located on the north
and west sides. Storm sewers shall be located under the pavement near, but not
in, the center.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c8b57f459914936cd0fa6af48902856ffb9c13c0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-938.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c8b57f459914936cd0fa6af48902856ffb9c13c0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-940.gif]
      2.   The placement of storm sewers or electric lines in the rear of a lot
is not acceptable unless circumstances determined by the village engineer
require their placement in the rear, in which case the following easement
diagrams indicate placement:
         a.   Ten Foot Easements: When an easement will not include sanitary
sewer or surface drainage systems, a ten foot (10') easement width shall be
sufficient and the utilities shall be located as follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c8b57f459914936cd0fa6af48902856ffb9c13c0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-942.gif]
         b.   Fifteen Foot Easements: When an easement will include either a
sanitary sewer system or a surface drainage system, but not both systems, a
fifteen foot (15') easement shall be required and the utilities shall be
located as follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c8b57f459914936cd0fa6af48902856ffb9c13c0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-944.gif]
         c.   Twenty Foot Easements: When a utility easement will include both
a sanitary sewer system and a surface drainage system, a twenty foot (20')
easement shall be required and the utilities shall be located as follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c8b57f459914936cd0fa6af48902856ffb9c13c0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-946.gif]
         d.   Ten Foot Access Easement: When sanitary or storm sewers are
located in the rear of a lot, a ten foot (10') easement in the side yard, shall
be required from the street right of way to each manhole or inlet. (1997 Code)
9-4-7: SURFACE WATER DRAINAGE:
   A.   Drainage Improvements Required: All subdivisions shall be developed
with adequate surface drainage. Surface water drainage improvements shall
consist of storm sewers and/or open channels, inlets, catch basins and manholes
designed and constructed to conform with standards established by the village
engineer and shall adequately drain the area being developed, including
drainage from other areas which naturally drain through the area being
developed.
   B.   Roadside Ditches: If, as the result of subdivision development, surface
water is deposited in existing roadside ditches in quantities exceeding their
capacity, the developer shall improve the ditches and replace culverts as
needed to handle the flow.
   C.   Developments Twenty Acres Or More: Unless engineering evidence is
presented to the village engineer warranting exceptions, storm sewers which
will drain twenty (20) acres or less for residential development shall be
designed and constructed to meet the following criteria:
      1.   Major and minor arterials, 10-year storm frequency.
      2.   All other areas, 5-year storm frequency.
   D.   Grade Control: It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to
provide grade control for rear lot drainage to each lot owner. It shall be the
lot owner's responsibility to maintain the drainage course and to keep it free
from features that restrict natural drainage.
   E.   Controlled Release And Storage: The controlled release and storage of
excess stormwater runoff shall be required in combination for all of the areas
indicated on the preliminary plan.
      1.   Predeveloped Discharge Rate: The controlled release of stormwater
runoff shall not exceed the release or discharge rate which existed at the site
prior to development. This rate shall be known as the predeveloped discharge
rate. In the case of multiple discharge locations, no location shall discharge
at a rate higher than the predeveloped discharge rate for that location under
any set of conditions. The controlled release rate in any case shall not exceed
the rated capacity of the existing natural downstream outlet channel or storm
sewer system as determined by the village engineer. The rate at which
stormwater runoff is transported into a designated storage area may be as
determined by the design engineer and is unrestricted.
      2.   Channel System: A natural or surface channel system shall be
designed with adequate capacity to convey the stormwater runoff from all
tributary upstream areas through the development. This bypass channel shall be
designed to carry the peak rate of runoff from a 50-year storm assuming all
storm sewers are blocked and that the upstream areas are fully developed and
have been saturated with antecedent rainfall. No habitable structures shall be
constructed within this channel, however, streets and parking or playground
areas and utility easements shall be considered compatible primary uses.
      3.   Stormwater Runoff Facilities: Stormwater runoff capacity of
detention facilities and discharge rates from such facilities shall be
calculated by analyzing volume and rate of runoff during predevelopment and
postdevelopment conditions for the 10-year and the 100-year recurrence
intervals.
         a.   Capacity And Discharge Rates: Storage capacity and discharge
rates shall be based on the maximum calculated volume and peak flow of
stormwaters, respectively.
         b.   Design: Storage facilities shall be designed using the soil
conservation service (SCS) method of calculating runoff discharge rate and
total volume of storage. The rational method of calculating runoff may be used
for subdivisions less than twenty (20) acres.
         c.   Storage Volume: The storage volume shall be provided for the
fully developed watershed that is tributary to the area designated for
detention purposes. The control structure for discharge shall maintain the
release rate at or below the rate established in subsection E1 of this section
for all rainfall events of 100-year or less frequency.
      4.   Water Storage:
         a.   Detention Reservoir Or Bottom Stormwater Storage:
            (1)   Secondary Purpose: Detention reservoirs or bottom stormwater
storage areas shall be designed to serve a secondary purpose for recreation,
open space or other types of uses that will not be adversely affected by
occasional or intermittent flooding.
            (2)   Low Flow; Positive Gravity Outlet: A method of carrying the
low flow through these areas shall be provided in addition to a system of
drains, and both shall be provided with a positive gravity outlet to a natural
channel or other storm sewer facility with adequate capacity.
            (3)   Storage Duration: The combination of storage of the water
from a 100-year storm and the design release rate shall not result in a storage
duration in excess of seventy two (72) hours.
            (4)   Maximum Depth: Maximum depths of planned stormwater storage
shall not exceed four feet (4') unless the existing natural ground contours and
other conditions lend themselves to greater storage depth, which shall be
approved by the village engineer.
            (5)   Minimum Grades: Minimum grades for turf areas shall be four-
tenths percent (0.4%) and maximum slopes shall be ten percent (10%).
            (6)   Side Slopes: Storage area side slopes shall be kept as close
to the natural land contours as practical and a ten percent (10%) slope or less
shall be used whenever possible. If slopes greater than ten percent (10%) are
necessary to meet storage requirements or area restrictions, approval shall be
obtained from the village engineer, and suitable erosion control shall be
provided in addition to the protection required to ensure public health and
safety.
         b.   Outlet Control Structures:
            (1)   Design: Outlet control structures shall be designed as simply
as possible and shall require little or no maintenance and/or attention for
proper operation.
            (2)   Emergency Overflow: Each stormwater storage area shall be
provided with a method of emergency overflow in the event that a storm in
excess of the 100-year return frequency storm occurs. The emergency overflow
facility shall be designed to function without maintenance and/or attention and
shall become part of the natural or surface channel system described in a
preceding paragraph.
            (3)   Hydraulic Calculations: Hydraulic calculations shall be
submitted to substantiate all design features. Both outlet control structures
and emergency overflow facilities shall be designed and constructed to fully
protect the public health and safety.
            (4)   Runoff Velocities: Stormwater runoff velocities shall be kept
to a minimum and turbulent conditions at an outfall control structure will not
be permitted without complete protection for the public safety.
            (5)   Restrictive Fences: The use of restrictive fences shall be
kept to a minimum and shall be used only as a last resort when no other method
is feasible.
      5.   Retention Reservoir Or Wet Bottom Stormwater Storage: Retention
reservoir or wet bottom stormwater storage areas shall be designed with all of
the items required for detention reservoir storage areas, except that a low
flow conduit and a system of drains with a positive gravity outlet shall not be
required. However, the following additional conditions shall be complied with:
         a.   Water Surface Area: Water surface area shall not exceed one-tenth
(1/10) of the tributary drainage area.
         b.   Shoreline Protection: Shoreline protection shall be provided to
prevent erosion from wave action.
         c.   Minimum Depth: Minimum normal water depth shall be four feet
(4'). If fish are to be used to keep the pond clean, a minimum of one-fourth
(1/4) of the pond area shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') deep.
         d.   Lowering Of Pond Level: Facilities shall be available, if
possible, to allow the pond level to be lowered by gravity flow for cleaning
purposes and shoreline maintenance.
         e.   Control Structures: Control structures for stormwater release
shall be designed to operate at full capacity with only a minor increase in the
water surface water level. Hydraulic calculations shall be submitted to
substantiate all design features.
         f.   Aeration Facilities: Aeration facilities to prevent pond
stagnation shall be provided, if necessary. Design calculations to substantiate
the effectiveness of these aeration facilities shall be submitted with
construction plans. Agreements for the perpetual operation and maintenance of
aeration facilities shall be prepared to the satisfaction of the village
engineer and planning commission.
      6.   Portion Of Watershed; Multiple Watersheds: Where developments form
only a portion of the watershed or contain portions of several watersheds, the
requirements for providing storage shall be based upon that proportion of the
area being developed as compared to the total watershed tributary to the
storage area. Compensating storage will be acceptable whenever it is justified
and feasible. As a watershed is developed with a series of stormwater storage
facilities, due consideration will be given for calculation of the allowable
release rate and capacity of the natural or surface channel system as described
in subsection E2 of this section.
      7.   Threat Of Flooding: Where development of a property presents the
threat of flooding or damage by flash flood runoff to downstream residents, the
facilities for stormwater runoff control shall be constructed prior to any
earthmoving or drainage construction on the project site.
      8.   Cost Of System: The construction of the stormwater control system
shall be accomplished as part of the cost of land development. If the amount of
storage capacity can be increased to provide certain benefits to the
surrounding properties, negotiations for public participation in the cost of
such development may be feasible.
      9.   Groundwater Recharge Capacity: The ability to retain and maximize
the groundwater recharge capacity of the area being developed is encouraged.
Design of the stormwater runoff control system as provided in subsection E4 of
this section shall give due consideration to providing groundwater recharge to
compensate for the reduction in the percolation that occurs when the ground
surface is paved and/or roofed over. The use of natural gravel deposits for the
lower portions of storm runoff storage areas, the flattening of drainage slopes
and the retention of existing topography are samples of possible recharge
methods.
      10.   Construction Phase: During the construction phase of land
development, facilities shall be provided by appropriate stockpile design, to
prevent the erosion and washing away of the earth. Silting of downstream areas
shall be prevented through the strategic use of silting basins, sodding of
runoff channels, and by limiting the period of time during which the earth is
stripped of vegetation.
      11.   Final Engineering Plans: Final engineering plans shall show
complete details for all items covered in this section. Plans, specifications
and all calculations for stormwater runoff control shall be submitted for
review and approval as part of the construction plan submittal or as part of
the site plan submittal for large scale developments. (1997 Code)
9-4-8: SIDEWALKS:
Concrete sidewalks at least four feet (4') wide and four inches (4") thick
shall be constructed on both sides of each street at least four and one-half
feet (41/2') from and at least four inches (4") above the backs of the curbs.
Sidewalks that serve as driveways shall be reinforced and constructed six
inches (6") thick. Sidewalks shall be located one foot (1') inside the street
right of way. Sidewalks shall be constructed along all streets bordering the
subdivision. (1997 Code)
9-4-9: SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Sanitary Sewers: When a subdivision is located within the service area
of a public sanitary sewerage system, sanitary sewers shall be constructed
throughout the entire subdivision in such a manner as to serve adequately each
building lot.
      1.   Location: Public sanitary sewers shall be located in the north or
west boulevard (between curb and sidewalk) within the street right of way or in
a fifteen foot (15') easement behind the sidewalk within the house setback
area. Parallel sewer lines along the street may be used. Sanitary sewers shall
not be located in the rear yard.
      2.   Surface Water Prohibited: Under no circumstances shall the entrance
of stormwater or groundwater to the sanitary sewers be permitted.
      3.   Compliance Required: All sanitary sewer collections and disposal
systems shall comply with the ordinances of the village, and the sanitary
district and the requirements of the Illinois environmental protection agency.
   B.   Private Sewage Disposal Systems: Where no public sanitary sewerage
system is available, individual sanitary disposal systems shall be installed to
service individual dwelling units. These sanitary disposal systems shall be
installed in accordance with the latest revised edition of the Illinois private
sewage disposal licensing act and private sewage disposal code promulgated by
the Illinois department of public health and the applicable ordinance of the
village. Sufficient area shall be provided to accommodate two (2) seepage
fields. (1997 Code)
9-4-10: WATER SUPPLY:
   A.   Public Water Supply:
      1.   Water Mains: Water mains not less than six inches (6") in diameter
shall be constructed throughout the entire subdivision. Larger diameter pipes
may be required by the village to provide for future transmission needs, in
which case, the village shall pay any additional costs. (1997 Code)
      2.   Fire Flow:
         a.   Requirements: Every water supply system shall be designed in such
a manner as to provide an area fire flow meeting the requirements established
by the fire safety division of the Divernon fire protection district fire
department. Water mains larger than six inches (6") in diameter shall be
installed at the subdivider's expense if needed to provide the area fire flow
required by the "Insurance Services Office Guide" for determination of required
fire flow. (1997 Code; amd. per correspondence dated 3-8-2013)
         b.   Minimum: A minimum of one thousand (1,000) gallons per minute
with a residual pressure of twenty (20) pounds per square inch shall be
required. (1997 Code)
         c.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants with shutoff valves at each hydrant
shall be installed throughout the entire system at maximum intervals of six
hundred feet (600') or less if required by the Divernon fire protection
district fire department. All fire hydrants shall be three (3) nozzle hydrants
with threads as specified by the Divernon fire protection district fire
department and shall have flow characteristics similar to those of five and
one-fourth inch (51/4") hydrant valve. (1997 Code; amd. per correspondence
dated 3-8-2013)
   B.   Private Water Supply: When a public water supply is not feasible, a
private well may be used. Wells shall be constructed according to the Illinois
water well pump installation code. (1997 Code)
9-4-11: ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION:
The underground electric distribution system shall be installed on utility
easements along front lot lines. Transformers shall normally be placed on every
other lot line with secondary conductors and distribution pedestals installed
on the opposite side of the street. In some instances, transformers may be
installed on both sides of the street. All primary and secondary cables shall
be in conduit. (1997 Code)
9-4-12: STREET LIGHTING:
Streetlights shall be installed along public streets in the village by the
subdivider. (1997 Code)
9-4-13: PUBLIC AREAS AND OPEN SPACE:
   A.   Playgrounds And Parks: Due consideration shall be given to the
allocation of areas suitably located and of adequate size for playgrounds and
parks for local or neighborhood use as well as public service areas.
   B.   Site Reservation: When a proposed school, neighborhood park, electric
substation, water storage tank, recreation area, or public access to water
frontage shown in the official plan is located in whole or part in a proposed
subdivision, the village board may require, as a condition of final plat
approval, that such space within the subdivision be reserved and not developed
for a period not to exceed one year from the date of such final plat approval.
Within the one year period, the appropriate public agency may acquire the
reserved property in the manner provided by law. If the reserved site is not
acquired and no legal action is filed within the one year period, the
reservation shall become void and the site previously reserved may then be used
for other purposes. (1997 Code)
CHAPTER 5
ANNEXATION PROCEDURES
SECTION:
9-5-1: Petition For Annexation
9-5-2: Annexation Fees
9-5-3: Preannexation Agreements
9-5-4: Approval Of Plat Of Annexation
9-5-1: PETITION FOR ANNEXATION:
Anyone desiring to annex territory contiguous to the corporate boundaries of
the village shall file with the village clerk a legally sufficient petition for
annexation as provided by law. Such petition will be reviewed by the village
board to determine its adequacy, including whether such territory is, in fact,
contiguous to the village and whether the form of petition meets with all legal
requirements. Attached to said petition for annexation shall be a plat of
annexation covering the territory involved in said annexation. (Ord. 2008-001,
1-23-2008)
9-5-2: ANNEXATION FEES:
For any annexation of territory to the village, there shall be charged a fee in
accordance with the fee schedule adopted by the village and amended from time
to time. Such fee shall be due and payable no later than thirty (30) days after
annexation of the territory to the village. Such fee shall not be applicable to
involuntary annexation. (Ord. 2008-001, 1-23-2008)
9-5-3: PREANNEXATION AGREEMENTS:
   A.   If the territory which is the subject matter of a petition for
annexation either under section
7-1-8 of the Illinois municipal code or other applicable sections of the
Illinois municipal code is proposed to be annexed pursuant to a preannexation
agreement under 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-15.1-1 et seq., an
additional petition must be filed proposing said preannexation agreement, which
petition shall be accompanied by an additional filing fee as prescribed in the
fee schedule set forth elsewhere in this code. Such petition shall be in such
form and accompanied by such information as shall be prescribed by the village
from time to time, but shall in any event include the following:
      1.   The petitioner's name, address and interest in the petition, and the
name, address and interest of every person represented by the petitioner in the
petition.
      2.   A draft of the proposed preannexation agreement.
      3.   A statement containing all the circumstances, factors and arguments
that the petitioner offers in support of the proposed agreement.
   B.   Such petition for a preannexation agreement will be filed with the
village clerk. The village board will conduct a thorough review and study of
the proposed preannexation agreement. All costs incurred by the village in
relation to review of the preannexation agreement shall be subject to
reimbursement under the terms of a preannexation agreement. (Ord. 2008-001, 1-
23-2008)
9-5-4: APPROVAL OF PLAT OF ANNEXATION:
The village board shall, upon motion and majority vote, approve the annexation
of any property and authorize the president and village clerk to sign the
proposed plat of annexation. The certificate shall be in the following form:
Approved by the President and Board of Trustees of the Village of Divernon at a
meeting held                    , 20    .
(Ord. 2008-001, 1-23-2008)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
RULES AND DEFINITIONS; APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Intent And Purpose
10-1-3: Rules For Construction Of Language
10-1-4: Definitions
10-1-5: Minimum Requirements
10-1-6: Conflicting Provisions
10-1-7: Separability
10-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known, cited and referred to as the VILLAGE OF DIVERNON
ZONING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
10-1-2: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   This title is adopted for the purpose of:
      1.   Promoting and protecting the public health, safety, comfort,
convenience, prosperity, morals and general welfare of the people.
      2.   Securing adequate light, pure air and safety from fire and other
dangers.
      3.   Conserving the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
Village.
   B.   This title is designed to establish and accomplish standards and
objectives by:
      1.   Organizing the Village into districts regulating and restricting
therein the location, construction, reconstruction, alteration and use of any
buildings, structures or land, whether for residence, office, business,
manufacturing or other specific uses.
      2.   Regulating and limiting the height and bulk of buildings and other
structures.
      3.   Establishing, regulating and limiting the building or setback lines
along streets, alleys or property lines.
      4.   Regulating and limiting the intensity of the use of the lot area and
determining the areas of open space within and surrounding such buildings.
      5.   Providing for certain conditional permitted uses.
      6.   Regulating the size, type and location of signs.
      7.   Defining and limiting the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies as provided herein.
      8.   Providing for the change and amendment of such regulations and
boundaries of the respective districts.
      9.   Prescribing penalties for the violation of the provisions of this
title or of any amendment thereto. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
10-1-3: RULES FOR CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE:
The language set forth in the text of this title shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules for construction:
   A.   The singular number includes the plural and the plural, the singular.
   B.   The present tense includes the past and future tenses and the past and
future, the present.
   C.   The word "shall" is mandatory, while the word "may" is permissive.
   D.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and the neuter.
   E.   All measured distances shall be to the nearest integral foot. If a
fraction is one-half (1/2) or less, the integral foot next below shall be
taken.
   F.   Whenever a word, a phrase or a term defined hereinafter appears in the
text of this title, its meaning shall be construed as set forth in the
definition thereof. The word "lot" shall include the words "piece" and
"parcel"; the word "building" shall include all other structures of every kind
regardless of similarity to buildings, and the phrase "used for" shall include
the phrases "arranged for", "intended for", "maintained for", "designed for"
and "occupied for". Synonyms in common usage of certain words, phrases or terms
are shown parenthetically. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
10-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, phrases and terms whenever they occur in this title shall
be interpreted as herein defined:
AGRICULTURE: Land, including necessary buildings and structures, which shall be
used for agriculture including, but not limited to, farming, dairying,
pasturage, apiculture, horticulture, floriculture, viticulture and animal and
poultry husbandry, as well as the necessary accessory uses; provided, however,
that the operation of any such accessory uses shall be secondary to that of the
normal agricultural activities, and provided further, that the above uses shall
not include the commercial feeding of garbage or offal to swine or other
animals.
ALLEY: A public way with a width not exceeding twenty feet (20') in right-of-
way used primarily as a service access to the rear or side of a property which
abuts on a street.
ANIMAL HOSPITAL: Any building or portion thereof designed or used for the care,
observation or treatment of domestic animals.
AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD: Any area of land where two (2) or more motor vehicles
not in running condition, or parts thereof, are stored in the open and are not
being restored to operation or any land, building or structure used for the
wrecking or storing of such motor vehicles, or parts thereof, not in running
condition.
AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE STATION: Any building, structure, land, area or other
premises or portion thereof, used for the sale at retail of motor vehicle
fuels, oils or for servicing (minor repairs) or lubricating motor vehicles,
which activity may be accompanied by accessory sales and uses.
BASEMENT: A portion of a building located partly underground, but having less
than one-half (1/2) its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade
of the adjoining ground.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets or by a combination of streets and
public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of- way, bulkhead lines or shore
lines of waterways or corporate boundary lines.
BUILDABLE AREA: The specified portion of lot immediately in back of the front
yard setback.
BUILDING: Any structure which is built for the support, shelter or enclosure of
any persons, animals, chattels or movable property of any kind and which is
permanently affixed to the land.
BUILDING, ACCESSORY: A subordinate building not attached to a principal
building, the use of which is incidental and customary to that of the principal
building. Includes sheds of sixty five (65) square feet or more floor area
regardless of whether the shed has a foundation.
BUILDING AREA: The area bounded by the exterior dimensions of the outer walls
at the ground line.
BUILDING, COMPLETELY ENCLOSED: A building separated on all sides from the
adjacent open space or from other buildings or other structures by a permanent
roof and by exterior or party walls, pierced only by windows and normal
entrance or exit doors.
BUILDING, DETACHED: A building surrounded by open space on the same lot.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A non-accessory building in which the principal use of the
lot on which it is located is conducted.
BUILDING, TEMPORARY: Any building not designed to be permanently located in the
place where it is, or where it is intended to be placed or affixed.
BULK: The terms used to indicate the size and setbacks of buildings or
structures and the location of same with respect to one another, and including
the following:
   A.   Size and height of buildings;
   B.   Location of exterior walls at all levels in relation to lot lines,
streets or to other buildings;
   C.   Gross floor area of buildings in relation to lot area (floor area
ratio);
   D.   All open spaces allocated to buildings;
   E.   Amount of lot area provided per dwelling unit.
BUSINESS: Any occupation, employment or enterprise wherein merchandise is
exhibited or sold or which occupies time, attention, labor and materials or
where services are offered for compensation.
CARPORT: A roofed accessory building or structure providing space for the
parking of motor vehicles and containing not more than two (2) enclosing walls,
screens, and lattice, or other material. When attached to a principal building,
a carport shall be considered a part of the principal building and subject to
all applicable bulk regulations for the district in which it is located.
CELLAR: The portion of a building located partly or wholly underground, and
having one-half (1/2) or more than one-half (1/2) of its clear floor-to-ceiling
height below the average grade of the adjoining ground.
CLUB OR LODGE, PRIVATE: A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide
members paying dues, which owns, hires or leases a building or portion thereof,
the use of such premises being restricted to members or their guests.
CURB LEVEL: The level of the established curb in front of a building or
structure measured at the center of such front. Where no curb level has been
established, it shall be deemed to be the established level of the center line
of the street surface in front of a building or structure, measured at the
center line of such front.
DECK: A patio which has been raised above ground level.
DISTRICT: A section or part of the incorporated or unincorporated portion of
the Village for which the use regulations are uniform.
DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment which accommodates patrons'
automobiles, at which the occupants may be served.
DRIVEWAY: A private road giving access from a street or alley to a building or
area for private parking on abutting grounds.
DWELLING: A residential building, or portion thereof, but not including hotels,
motels, rest homes, rooming houses, tourist homes or trailers.
DWELLING, DETACHED: A residential building which is entirely surrounded by open
space on the same lot.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY (APARTMENT): A building or portion thereof containing
three (3) or more dwelling units.
DWELLING, SEMI-DETACHED: A dwelling joined to one other dwelling by a party
wall.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A residential building containing one dwelling unit,
including detached, semi-detached and attached dwellings.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY (DUPLEX): A residential building containing two (2)
dwelling units, including detached, semi- detached and attached dwellings.
DWELLING UNIT: A group of rooms constituting all or part of a dwelling, which
are arranged, designed, used or intended for use exclusively as living quarters
for one family and not more than an aggregate of two (2) roomers and which
includes complete kitchen facilities permanently installed.
DWELLINGS, ATTACHED (GROUP, ROW AND TOWN HOUSES): A dwelling joined to two (2)
other dwellings by party wall.
ERECT: The act of placing or affixing a component of a structure upon the
ground or upon another such component.
FAMILY: One or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption, or a group
of not more than five (5) persons not so related, together with his or their
domestic servants or gratuitous guests, maintaining a common household in a
dwelling unit.
FENCE: A barrier intended to prevent escape or intrusion, to mark a boundary or
to create a sense of privacy or security.
FENCE, PRIVACY OR SOLID: A fence, including solid entrance and exit gates,
which effectively conceals from view, from adjoining property and streets,
materials that are stored and activities conducted behind such fence.
FLOODPLAIN AREA: The SFHA or special flood hazard area as defined in title 8,
chapter 3 of this Code.
FLOOR AREA, GROSS (To Determine Floor Area Ratio): For the purpose of
determining floor-area ratio, the floor area of a building or buildings shall
be the sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of such building
or buildings, measured from the exterior faces of exterior walls or from the
center line of party walls separating two (2) buildings; in particular, "gross
floor area" shall include:
   A.   Basement space, if at least one-half (1/2) of the basement story height
is above the established curb level.
   B.   Elevator shafts and stairwells at each floor.
   C.   Floor space used for mechanical equipment where the structural headroom
exceeds seven and one-half feet (71/2'), except equipment, open or enclosed,
located on the roof, i.e., bulkheads, water tanks and cooling towers.
   D.   Attic floor space where the structural headroom exceeds seven and one-
half feet (71/2').
   E.   Interior balconies and mezzanines.
   F.   Enclosed porches, but not terraces and breezeways.
FLOOR AREA RATIO: The numerical value obtained through dividing the gross floor
area of a building or buildings by the total area of the lot or parcel of land
on which building or buildings are located.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building or an accessory portion of the principal
building which is intended for and used to store the private passenger vehicles
of the family or families resident upon the premises, and in which no business,
service or industry connected directly or indirectly with automotive vehicles
is carried on.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: Any building where automotive vehicles are painted, repaired,
rebuilt, reconstructed and/or stored for compensation.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any gainful occupation or profession engaged in by the
occupant of a dwelling at or from such dwelling, without altering the essential
character of the neighborhood, and with the following restrictions: a) persons
engaging in home occupations shall not permit the employment of an additional
personnel other than the members of the immediate family in the performance of
such services; b) there shall be no exterior display, no exterior signs and no
exterior storage of equipment or materials used in connection with a home
occupation; and c) persons engaging in home occupations shall require patrons
to park off street and shall not allow patrons to park on the street. Examples
of typically permissible home occupations include, but are not limited to, the
following: art studio, dressmaking, professional offices of a clergyman,
lawyer, physician, dentist, architect, engineer or accountant and teaching,
with musical, dancing and other instruction, limited to two (2) pupils at a
time. Examples of impermissible home occupations include, but are not limited
to, the following: clinic or hospital, public stable or dog kennel or
restaurant.
JUNKYARD: An open area or fenced in enclosure, where used or secondhand
materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled or
handled including, but not limited to, scrap iron and other metals, paper,
rags, rubber tires and bottles. A junkyard includes an auto wrecking yard, but
does not include uses established entirely within enclosed buildings.
KENNEL: Any lot or premises on which two (2) or more dogs, cats or other
mammals commonly kept as pets, at least four (4) months of age, are: a) kept or
bred for sale; b) kept or boarded for or on behalf of any party who or which is
not the owner of such animals; or c) kept or boarded for or on behalf of any
party who or which is not the owner or lessee of the lot or premises.
LOADING, OFF STREET: A space, accessible from a street, alley or way, in a
building or on a lot, for the use of trucks while loading or unloading
merchandise or materials.
LODGING ROOM: A room rented as sleeping and living quarters but without cooking
facilities and with or without an individual bathroom. In a suite of rooms
without cooking facilities, each room which provides sleeping accommodations
shall be counted as one lodging room.
LOT: A parcel of land, whether legally described or subdivided as one or more
lots or parts of lots, located within a single block and which is occupied or
intended for occupancy by one principal building or principal use, together
with any accessory buildings and such open spaces as are required by this title
and having its principal frontage upon a street.
LOT AREA: The area of horizontal plane bounded by the vertical planes through
front, side and rear lot lines.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the junction of and abutting on two (2) or more
intersecting streets or a lot at the point of deflection in alignment of a
single street, the interior angle of which is one hundred thirty five degrees
(135°) or less.
LOT DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the rear
lot line of a lot measured within the lot boundaries.
LOT LINE: A property boundary line of any lot held in single or separate
ownership; except, that where any portion of the lot extends into the abutting
street or alley, the lot line shall be deemed to be the street or alley right-
of-way line.
LOT LINE, FRONT: That boundary of a lot which is along an existing or dedicated
street. The owner of a corner lot may select either street lot line as the
front lot line.
LOT LINE, REAR: That boundary of a lot which is most distant from and is, or is
approximately, parallel to the front lot line. If the rear lot line is less
than ten feet (10') in length or if the lot forms a point at the rear, the rear
lot line shall be deemed to be a line ten feet (10') in length within the lot;
parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any boundary of a lot which is not a front or rear lot line.
LOT, MOBILE HOME: The area assigned to a mobile home in a mobile home park.
LOT, REVERSED CORNER: A corner lot, the side lot line of which is substantially
a continuation of the front lot line of the first lot to its rear.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot which has a pair of opposite lot lines along two (2) more
or less parallel public streets and which is not a corner lot. On a through
lot, both street lines shall be deemed front lot lines.
LOT WIDTH: The mean horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot
measured within the lot boundaries or the minimum distance between the side lot
lines within the buildable area.
MOBILE HOME: A structure other than a modular home, designed for permanent
habitation and so constructed as to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily
or permanently attached to its frame, from the place of its construction to the
location or subsequent locations at which it is intended to be a permanent
habitation and designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for
one or more persons. The term "mobile home" shall include manufactured homes
constructed after June 30, 1976, in accordance with the Federal "National
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974". Such
mobile homes, by law, have affixed to them a red metal label prescribed by the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.
MOBILE HOME PARK: A tract of land or two (2) or more contiguous tracts of land
upon which contain sites with the necessary utilities for five (5) or more
independent mobile homes for permanent habitation either free of charge or for
revenue purposes and shall include any building, structure, vehicle or
enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the equipment of such mobile
home park. Separate ownership of contiguous tracts of land shall not preclude
the tracts of land from mobile home parks if they are maintained and operated
jointly. Neither an immobilized mobile home nor a motorized recreational
vehicle shall be construed as being a part of a mobile home park.
MODULAR HOME: A factory built home which is: a) subject to regulation by the
Illinois Department of Public Health; and b) not built on a permanent chassis.
By law a modular home must have affixed to it a yellow seal in the shape of the
State of Illinois on the electrical panel box, or other seal evidencing
regulatory approval in the State of Illinois. A modular home on a permanent
perimeter foundation extending below the frost depth qualifies as a single-
family structure in any zone in which single-family structures are allowed.
Should the Illinois Department of Public Health approve a factory built home
with a permanent chassis, such a home is not considered a "modular home" under
this title, but rather is considered a "mobile home" under this title.
MOTEL: A building containing lodging rooms having adjoining individual
bathrooms where each lodging room has a doorway opening directly to the
outdoors and where more than fifty percent (50%) of the lodging rooms are for
rent to transient tourists for a continuous period of less than thirty (30)
days.
MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL: A building or premises in which freight is received or
dispatched by motor vehicle.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any self-propelled wheeled vehicle designated or intended
primarily for the transportation of persons or goods along public streets,
alleys or other public ways.
NAMEPLATE: A sign indicating the name and/or address of a building or the name
of an occupant thereof.
NURSING HOME: See definition of rest home.
OPEN SALES LOT: Any land used or occupied for but not limited to the purpose of
buying and selling new or secondhand passenger cars and/or trucks, motor
scooters, motorcycles, boats, trailers, aircraft and monuments, and for the
storing of same prior to sale.
PATIO: A recreation area adjoining a residential structure, which is either
paved or constructed of flagstones or the like, which is not raised above the
ground level and which is not covered with a roof or other structure.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The Divernon Zoning Board of Appeals acting as the
Planning Commission.
PORCH: A covered or roofed entrance to a building or covered or roofed patio or
deck.
PUBLIC OPEN SPACE: Any publicly-owned open area including, but not limited to,
the following: parks, playgrounds, forest preserves, beaches, waterways,
parkways and streets.
REFUSE: All waste products resulting from human habitation, except sewage.
RESIDENCE: The act or condition of residing or dwelling in a place.
REST HOME (NURSING HOME): A private home for the care of children or the aged
or infirmed or a place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders. Such a
home does not contain equipment for surgical care or for the treatment of
disease or injury, nor does it include maternity care or care for mental
illnesses or infirmities.
RETAIL: Retail refers to the sale of relatively small quantities of commodities
and services directly to customers.
ROOMING HOUSE (TOURIST HOME): A building, or portion thereof, containing
lodging rooms which accommodate three (3) or more persons who are not members
of the keeper's family and where lodging rooms or meals, or both, are provided
for compensation.
SANITARY LANDFILL: A method of disposing of refuse by spreading and covering
with earth to a depth of two feet (2') on the top surface and one foot (1') on
the sides of the bank.
SETBACK, FRONT YARD: The minimum horizontal distance permitted between the
front line or side line of the building and nearest the street line,
disregarding steps or patios.
SHED: A storage structure not intended for dwelling purposes or for storage of
automobiles.
SIGN: A name, identification, description, display or illustration, which is
affixed to or painted or represented directly or indirectly upon a building or
other outdoor surface or piece of land and which directs attention to any
object, product, place, activity, person, institution, organization or
business. Each display surface of a sign shall be considered to be a sign.
This title does not regulate signs located completely within an enclosed
building unless such signs are exposed to view from a street.
SIGN, ADVERTISING: A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service or entertainment not necessarily sold upon the premises where such sign
is located or to which it is affixed. A double face or V-type sign, erected on
a single supporting structure where the interior angle does not exceed one
hundred thirty five degrees (135°) shall, for the purpose of computing square-
foot area, be considered and measured as a single face sign.
SIGN, BUSINESS: A sign which directs attention to a business or profession
conducted or to a commodity, service or entertainment sold or offered upon the
premises where such sign is located or to which it is affixed.
SIGN, FLASHING: Any illuminated sign on which the artificial light is not
maintained stationary and/or constant in intensity and color at all times when
such sign is in use. For the purpose of this title, any moving, illuminated
sign shall be considered a flashing sign.
SIGN, GROSS SURFACE AREA OF: The entire area within a single continuous
perimeter enclosing the extreme limits of such sign and in no case passing
through or between any adjacent elements of same. However, such perimeter shall
not include any structural elements lying outside the limits of such sign and
not forming an integral part of the display.
SIGN, ILLUMINATED: A sign which is directly or indirectly lighted.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the floor next above, or if there is no floor above, the space between the
floor and the ceiling next above. A basement shall be counted as a story for
the purposes of this title when more than one-half (1/2) of such basement
height is above the adjacent ground level.
STREET (AVENUE, PLACE, ROAD, TERRACE, PARKWAY, BOULEVARD OR COURT): A right-of-
way of a required width, which affords a primary means of access to abutting
property.
STREET LINE: The dividing line between a lot and a contiguous street.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change, other than incidental repairs, in the
supporting members of a building or structure, such as bearing walls or
partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any substantial change in the roof or
exterior walls.
STRUCTURE: Anything erected, the use of which requires more or less permanent
location on the ground, or attached to something having a permanent location on
the ground. A sign, billboard or other advertising medium detached or
projecting shall be construed to be a structure.
TOURIST HOME: A building which contains a single dwelling unit and in which
meals or lodging or both are provided or offered to transient guests for
compensation.
TRAILER: A vehicle without motive power, designed for carrying persons or
property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle, including but not limited to
the terms "trailer", "semi-trailer" and "travel trailer" as defined in the
Illinois Motor Vehicle Code.
USE: The purpose or activity for which the land or building thereon is
designed, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained.
USE, ACCESSORY: A subordinate use which is clearly and customarily incidental
to the principal use of a building or premises and which is located on the same
lot as the principal building or use, except for such accessory parking
facilities as are specifically authorized to be located elsewhere.
USE, NONCONFORMING: Any lawfully established use of a building or premises
which, on the effective date hereof, does not comply with all of the applicable
use (no bulk) regulations of the zoning district in which such building or
premises shall be located. For the purpose of this title, any use lawfully
established on the effective date hereof by virtue of lacking off street
parking or loading facilities as required hereinafter for new uses, shall not
be deemed a nonconforming use.
USE, PRINCIPAL: The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use.
YARD: An open space on a lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its
lowest level to the sky. A yard extends along a line and at right angles to
such lot line to a depth or width specified in the yard regulations for the
zoning district in which such lot is located.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending along the full width of the front lot line
between side lot lines.
YARD, REAR: The portion of the yard on the same lot with the principal
building, located between the rear line of the building and the rear lot line
extending for the full width of the lot.
YARD, SIDE: A yard extending along a side lot line between the front and rear
yards.
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: A person appointed by the President and Board of Trustees
to administer this title on a day to day basis. The Zoning Administrator shall
be a person other than a member of the Board of Trustees.
ZONING BOARD: The Divernon Zoning Board of Appeals. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
10-1-5: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title shall be
held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the public
health, safety, morals, or general welfare. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
10-1-6: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
Whenever the requirements of this title are at variance with the requirements
of any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations, ordinances, deed
restrictions, or covenants, the most restrictive or imposing higher standards
shall govern. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
10-1-7: SEPARABILITY:
Should any section or provision of this title be declared by the courts to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of
this title as a whole, or any part thereof other than the part so declared to
be unconstitutional or invalid. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
10-2-1: Building Permits And Fees
10-2-2: Duties Of The Zoning Administrator
10-2-3: Zoning Board Of Appeals
10-2-4: Appeals
10-2-5: Variances
10-2-6: Planning Commission
10-2-7: Amendments
10-2-8: Conditional Permitted Uses
10-2-9: Fees For Variances, Appeals, Conditional Permitted Uses And Amendments
10-2-10: Violation, Penalty And Enforcement
10-2-11: Nuisances
10-2-1: BUILDING PERMITS AND FEES:
   A.   No building shall be erected or substantially altered unless a building
permit has been issued by the Zoning Administrator stating the building
complies with this title. For purposes of this subsection, the construction of
a garage, deck, porch, patio, fence, or swimming pool shall be deemed an
alteration of a building.
   B.   The Zoning Administrator shall prescribe a form for an application for
a building permit. The form shall require, at a minimum, the name and address
of the person seeking the building permit, the purpose of the construction, the
present zoning classification of the property and a sketch map showing the
dimensions of the lot, the location, square footage and setbacks of any
existing structures on the lot and the square footage, location and setbacks of
proposed structures, if any, to be constructed on the lot. The form provided by
the Zoning Administrator shall contain the following legend, to be initialed as
applicable in each case by the applicant:
THE APPLICANT CERTIFIES THAT THE STRUCTURE TO WHICH THIS APPLICATION APPLIES
HAS BEEN DESIGNED AND SHALL BE BUILT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNATIONAL
BUILDING CODE, 2012 EDITION, AND THE CURRENT EDITION OF THE ILLINOIS PLUMBING
CODE. ALL SUBCONTRACTORS AND THE OWNER HAVE BEEN OR SHALL BE NOTIFIED OF THIS
CERTIFICATION.
THE APPLICANT CERTIFIES THAT THE STRUCTURE TO WHICH THIS APPLICATION APPLIES
HAS BEEN DESIGNED AND SHALL BE BUILT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNATIONAL
RESIDENTIAL CODE FOR ONE AND TWO FAMILY DWELLINGS, 2012 EDITION AND THE CURRENT
EDITION OF THE ILLINOIS PLUMBING CODE. ALL SUBCONTRACTORS AND THE OWNER HAVE
BEEN OR SHALL BE NOTIFIED OF THIS CERTIFICATION.
   C.   Each building permit application shall be accompanied by a fee, as
follows:
      1.   Residential:
Estimated Cost Of Project Fee
Estimated Cost Of Project Fee
$0.00 to $500.99          $15.00 1
$501.00 to $1,999.99      20.001
$2,000.00 to $3,999.99    25.001
$4,000.00 to $9,999.99    30.001
$10,000.00 to $19,999.99  35.001
$20,000.00 to $44,999.99  40.001
$45,000.00 to $49,999.99  45.001
$50,000.00 and up         $1.00 per thousand with a $200.00 maximum1
 
   Note:
      1.    Plus tap fees.
Example: A building permit for a house with an estimated cost of one hundred
fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00) would require a one hundred fifty dollar
($150.00) permit fee plus tap fees.
A building permit for a house with an estimated cost of two hundred fifty
thousand dollars ($250,000.00) would require a two hundred dollar ($200.00)
permit fee plus tap fees.
      2.   Business, Commercial, And Industrial: The building permit applicant
will pay a building permit fee that is equivalent to the schedule of fees below
or seventy five percent (75%) of the construction plan review, whichever is
greater. The applicant will initially pay the fee as indicated in the schedule
for fees below. If seventy five percent (75%) of the cost of the construction
plan review is greater than the initial permit fee, the applicant will be
billed and will not get the building permit until it is paid. The fee for each
permit or re-inspection shall be paid when the application is filed in the case
of a permit fee, or upon receipt of a statement in the case of a re-inspection
fee. The declaration of estimated construction cost shall be made by the permit
applicant. If the department determines that the estimated construction cost is
unreasonable, the department may request the permit applicant to show proof of
the actual construction cost, and may adjust the fees to reflect the actual
construction cost. The value to be used in computing the building permit fees
shall be the total value of all construction work including materials and labor
for which the permit is issued and shall also include all finish work,
painting, roofing, electrical, plumbing, heating, air conditioning, elevators,
fire extinguishing systems and any other permanent equipment.
Estimated Cost Of Project Fee
Estimated Cost Of Project            Fee
$0.01 to $5,000.00                   $100.00 minimum
$5,000.01 to $10,000.00              $200.00 + $2.00 per hundred or part
                                     thereof over $5,000.01
$10,000.01 to $50,000.00             $300.00 + $1.25 per hundred or part
                                     thereof over $10,000.01
$50,000.01 to $100,000.00            $800.00 + $0.80 per hundred or part
                                     thereof over $50,000.01
$100,000.01 to $1,000,000.00         $1,200.00 + $0.20 per hundred or part
                                     thereof over $100,000.01
$1,000,000.01 to $10,000,000.00      $3,000.00 + $0.15 per hundred or part
                                     thereof over $1,000,000.01
$10,000,000.01 to $100,000,000.00    $16,500.00 + $0.10 per hundred or part
                                     thereof over $10,000,000.01
Over $100,000,000.00                 $125,000.00 + $0.05 per hundred or part
                                     thereof over $100,000,000.00
Inspection fee and re-inspection fee $100.00 per hour
Inspection fee outside of normal     150.00 per hour
business hours (minimum 1 hour)
 
All tap fees will be in addition to this fee schedule.
   D.   Upon receipt of a building permit application, the Zoning Administrator
shall refer the application to the various Village utility departments and/or
JULIE (joint utility locating information for excavating) to determine whether
the proposed structure would interfere with any installed utility or any
easement. No permit shall be issued if such interference is present unless
consented to in writing by the affected public utility or where a Village owned
utility is involved, by the Village.
   E.   Within ten (10) days of receipt of a building permit application
accompanied by the appropriate fee, the Zoning Administrator shall issue the
permit or deny the permit. In the event the permit is denied, the Zoning
Administrator shall state the reasons therefore, in writing, and shall refer to
the appropriate provisions of this title. The denial of the building permit
shall state that the applicant has ten (10) days to appeal the denial to the
Zoning Board of Appeals in accordance with the procedures set forth in this
title.
   F.   The holder of a building permit shall initiate construction of the work
described in the building permit within thirty (30) days of the date of
issuance of the building permit and shall finish construction of the work
within one year of issuance of the building permit. If the work is not
initiated or completed within the time set forth in this subsection, the
building permit shall lapse and the holder thereof shall be required to apply
for a new building permit for the lot in question.
   G.   Building permits are nontransferable.
   H.   Building permits shall be prominently displayed at the site of
construction in an area protected from the weather or in a transparent
waterproof envelope or other suitable frame.
   I.   A record of all building permit applications and building permits shall
be kept on file by the Zoning Administrator and shall be a public record.
   J.   No building permit application fee shall be required where:
      1.   A building permit application is denied and the application is
amended and resubmitted within fourteen (14) calendar days; or
      2.   A building permit application is denied, the applicant seeks and
obtains a variance which obviates the grounds for denial, and the building
permit application is resubmitted within fourteen (14) calendar days of the
grant of variance. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
10-2-2: DUTIES OF THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
The Zoning Administrator of the Village or other officials that have been or
shall be duly appointed by the Village President, shall enforce this title and,
in addition thereto and in furtherance of said authority, shall:
   A.   Issue building permits and make and maintain records thereof.
   B.   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures and uses of land to
determine compliance with the terms of this title.
   C.   Maintain permanent and current records of this title including, but not
limited to, all maps, amendments and conditional permitted uses, variances,
appeals and applications therefor.
   D.   Report periodically to the appropriate committee of the Village Board.
   E.   Receive, file and forward to the Zoning Board of Appeals all
applications for appeals, variances and other matters on which the Zoning Board
of Appeals is required to decide under this title.
   F.   Provide such clerical and technical assistance as may be required by
the Zoning Board of Appeals in the exercise of its duties. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-
27-2018)
10-2-3: ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS:
   A.   Creation: The Zoning Board of Appeals is created pursuant to section 5/
11-13-3 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-13-
3. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall consist of seven (7) members, each with a
five (5) year term commencing January 1 of each calendar year as set forth in
section 5/11-13-3 of the Illinois Municipal Code. The members of the Zoning
Board of Appeals shall have powers and duties assigned by statute and this
title.
   B.   Procedure: In accordance with applicable statutes:
      1.   All appointments to the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be made by the
Village President subject to approval of the Village Board. One of the members
so appointed shall be named as Chairman at the time of his appointment. Terms
of members shall commence on the date of their appointments. Vacancies shall be
filled as soon as possible for the unexpired term of any member whose place has
become vacant. In the event that the Office of the Chairman is vacated for any
reason, the Village Board shall appoint at its next meeting either: a) one of
the remaining members on the Board as Chairman, or b) any member appointed to
fill such vacancy on the Board as the new Chairman. All members of the Zoning
Board of Appeals shall be subject to removal by the President and Board of
Trustees of the Village for a good cause after public hearing. All members of
the Zoning Board of Appeals shall receive the sum of forty dollars ($40.00) for
each meeting of the Zoning Board of Appeals or the Planning Commission attended
by said member, with all such payments to be made from the General Corporate
Fund of the Village.
      2.   All meetings of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be held at the
call of the Chairman, or upon written request of any three (3) members of the
Zoning Board of Appeals. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall meet not less than
once per calendar quarter, unless there is no business to be discussed or acted
upon. All testimony by witnesses at any hearing provided for in this title may
be given under oath at the option of the Chairman. The Chairman, or in his
absence, the Acting Chairman, may administer oath and compel the attendance of
witnesses. All meetings of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be open to the
public. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of
each member upon every question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating as
such, and shall also keep records of its examinations and other official
actions. Every rule, regulation, amendment or repeal thereof and every order,
requirement, decision or determination of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall
immediately be filed in the Office of the Village Clerk and shall be of public
record.
      3.   All final decisions arrived at by the Zoning Board of Appeals shall
require the concurring vote of four (4) of its members. With the exception of
decisions on appeal made pursuant to Section
10-2-4, all final decisions reached by this Zoning Board of Appeals serve as
recommendations to the Village Board, and are not to be considered final
actions of the Village.
   C.   Jurisdiction And Authority: The Zoning Board of Appeals is hereby
vested with the powers granted by statute and this title, as follows:
      1.   To hear and decide appeals by any person, firm or corporation or by
any office, department, board, bureau or commission aggrieved by an
administrative order, requirement, decision or determination by the Zoning
Administrator pursuant to this title.
      2.   To hear and decide variances from the terms provided in this title
in the manner and subject to the standards set forth in this title.
      3.   To hear and decide all matters referred to it or upon which it is
required to pass under this title. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-
006, 11-9-2022)
10-2-4: APPEALS:
   A.   Appeals: The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals by
any person, firm or corporation or by any office, department, board, bureau or
commission aggrieved by an administrative order, requirement, decision or
determination by the Zoning Administrator pursuant to this title.
   B.   Processing: Appeals to the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be filed with
the Village Clerk. The Village Clerk shall forward such appeal to the Zoning
Board of Appeals for processing in accordance with the applicable statutes.
   C.   Hearings: At any hearing before the Zoning Board of Appeals, any party
may appear at such public hearing in person or by an agent or attorney.
   D.   Decisions: After a hearing before the Zoning Board of Appeals on an
appeal from an administrative order, requirement, decision or determination by
the Zoning Administrator, decisions shall, in all instances, be final
administrative determinations subject to judicial review in accordance with
applicable statutes, unless such decision may first be reviewed by the Village
Board as provided by the operative section of this title. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-
2018)
10-2-5: VARIANCES:
   A.   Authority: The Zoning Board of Appeals shall decide variances of the
provisions of this title in harmony with its general purpose and intent and
shall vary them only in the specific instances hereinafter set forth where the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall have made a finding of fact based upon the
standards hereinafter prescribed that there are practical difficulties or
particular hardship in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the
regulations of this title. Any determination rendered by this Zoning Board of
Appeals is a recommendation to the Village Board. The Village Board shall
retain the authority to accept or reject such recommendation.
   B.   Initiation: An application for a variance may be made by any person,
firm or corporation requesting or intending to request application for a
building permit, by any person who has been notified by the Zoning
Administrator that his property is not in compliance with this title, or any
person proposing use of property not in compliance with this title.
   C.   Processing:
      1.   An application for a variance shall be filed with the Village Clerk.
The Village Clerk shall forward such application to the Zoning Board of Appeals
for processing in accordance with the applicable statutes.
      2.   No variance shall be made by the Zoning Board of Appeals except
after a public hearing before the Zoning Board of Appeals, of which there shall
be a notice of time and place of the hearing published at least once, not more
than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days before the hearing, in one or
more newspapers with a general circulation within the Village, and a written
notice is served at least fifteen (15) days before the hearing on the owners of
properties adjacent to the property for which the variance is requested.
   D.   Decisions: All decisions of the Zoning Board of Appeals on variances
arrived at after the hearing shall require a concurring vote of four (4) of its
members, and such decisions shall be final, subject only to recommendation and
approval thereof by the Village Board and judicial review in accordance with
applicable statutes.
   E.   Standards:
      1.   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not vary the provisions of this
title as authorized in this section unless it shall have made findings based
upon the evidence presented to it that all of the following conditions apply:
         a.   That the property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations
governing the district in which it is located;
         b.   That the plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances; and
         c.   That the variance, if granted, will not alter the essential
character of the locality.
      2.   The Zoning Board of Appeals, in making the foregoing determination,
may take into consideration the extent to which the following facts, favorable
to the applicant, have been established by the evidence:
         a.   That the particular physical surroundings, shape or topographical
conditions of the specific property involved would bring a particular hardship
upon the owner as distinguished from a mere inconvenience if the strict letter
of regulation were to be carried out;
         b.   That the conditions upon which the petition for variance is based
would not be applicable generally to other property within the same zoning
classification;
         c.   That the purpose of the variance is not based exclusively upon a
desire to make more money out of the property;
         d.   That the alleged difficulty or hardship has not been created by
any person presently having an interest in the property;
         e.   That the granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the
neighborhood in which the property is located; or
         f.   That the proposed variance will not impair an adequate supply of
light and air to adjacent property, or substantially increase the danger of
fire or otherwise endanger the public safety or substantially diminish or
impair property values within the neighborhood.
      3.   The Zoning Board of Appeals may require such conditions and
restrictions upon the premises benefitted by a variance as may be necessary to
comply with the standards set forth in this section to reduce or minimize the
injurious effect of such variance upon other property in the neighborhood and
to implement the general purpose and intent of this title.
   F.   Duration Of Variance:
      1.   A variance shall be extinguished if construction of the variance is
not completed within six (6) months of the date the variance is granted, unless
additional time is allowed at the time the variance is granted.
      2.   A variance is extinguished if its use lapses for a period of six (6)
months.
   G.   Trades And Industries: No variances shall be granted with respect to
the classification, regulation and restriction of the location of trades and
industries.
   H.   Written Findings Of Fact: The Zoning Board of Appeals shall accompany
any variance granted or denied with written findings of fact specifying the
reasons for the grant or denial thereof.
   I.   Safeguards Or Conditions: The Zoning Board of Appeals may prescribe
appropriate safeguards or conditions in conformity with this title when
granting a variance. Violations of such safeguards or conditions shall be
deemed violations of this title. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-006,
11-9-2022)
10-2-6: PLANNING COMMISSION:
   A.   Creation: The Planning Commission of the Village is created. The
members of the Planning Commission shall be the same as the members of the
Zoning Board of Appeals. Members of the Zoning Board of Appeals and Planning
Commission may at any meeting constitute themselves as the Zoning Board of
Appeals or as the Planning Commission, or both, but in the event they act as
both the Zoning Board of Appeals and the Planning Commission in a single
meeting, they shall be entitled to compensation for only one meeting.
   B.   Jurisdiction And Duties: The Planning Commission is hereby vested with
the following powers and duties in the administration of this title:
      1.   To meet at least once per calendar quarter, unless there is no
business to be discussed or acted upon.
      2.   To post or publish notices of public hearings and to hold such
hearings as required by applicable statutes pertaining to proposed amendments
to the regulations imposed and the districts created by this title and to
proposed conditional permitted uses, as established in this title.
      3.   To make written reports and recommendations to the Village Board on
any such proposed amendments or conditional permitted uses.
      4.   To initiate, direct, and review, from time to time, studies of the
provisions of this title and to make reports of its recommendations to the
Village Board.
      5.   To hear and decide all matters which it is required to act upon
under this title. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-006, 11-9-2022)
10-2-7: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Authority: The regulations imposed and the districts created under the
authority of this title may be amended, from time to time, by ordinance in
accordance with applicable statutes. An amendment shall be granted or denied by
the Village Board only after a public hearing before the Planning Commission
and a report of its findings and recommendations has been submitted to the
Village Board.
   B.   Initiation Of Amendment: Amendments may be proposed by the Village
Board, by the Planning Commission or by a resident or owner of property in the
Village.
   C.   Processing: An application for an amendment shall be filed with the
Village Clerk and thereafter introduced to the Village Board. Such application
shall be forwarded from the Village Board by the Village Clerk to the Planning
Commission with a request to hold a public hearing in accordance with
applicable statutes, and thereafter to submit a report of its findings and
recommendations to the Village Board.
   D.   Decisions: The Village Board, after receiving the report of the
Planning Commission, may grant or deny any proposed amendment in accordance
with applicable statutes, or may refer it back to the Planning Commission for
further consideration. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
10-2-8: CONDITIONAL PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Purpose: The development and execution of this title is based upon the
division of the Village into districts within any one of which the use of land
and buildings and the bulk and location of the buildings or structures, as
related to the land, are essentially uniform. It is recognized, however, that
there are conditional permitted uses which, because of their unique character,
cannot be properly classified in any particular district or districts without
consideration, in each case, of the impact of those uses upon neighboring lands
and upon public need for the particular use of the particular location. Such
conditional permitted uses fall into the following categories:
      1.   Uses operated by a public agency or publicly regulated utilities or
uses traditionally affected with a public interest.
      2.   Uses entirely private in character, but of such a nature that the
operation may give rise to unique problems with respect to their impact upon
neighboring property or public facilities.
   B.   Authority:
      1.   Conditional permitted uses shall be authorized or denied by the
Village Board in accordance with the regulations and conditions set forth in
this title for conditional permitted uses.
      2.   No application for a conditional permitted use shall be acted upon
by the Village Board until after:
         a.   A written report is prepared and forwarded to the Village Board
by the Planning Commission in a manner prescribed herein for amendments to this
title; and
         b.   A public hearing has been held by the Planning Commission after
due notice by publication as provided by applicable statutes for amendments,
and the findings and recommendations of the Planning Commission have been
reported to the Village Board.
   C.   Initiation: An application for a conditional permitted use may be made
by any person, firm or corporation or by an office, department, board, bureau
or commission requesting such conditional permitted use.
   D.   Processing: An application for a conditional permitted use, in such
form and accompanied by such information as shall be established from time to
time by the Planning Commission, shall be filed with the Village Clerk and
thereafter processed in the manner prescribed heretofore for applications for
amendments.
   E.   Decisions:
      1.   The Village Board, upon report of the Planning Commission may
authorize or deny an application for conditional permitted use in accordance
with statutes applicable to amendments, or may refer it back to the Planning
Commission for further consideration.
      2.   No conditional permitted use shall be authorized by the Village
Board unless the conditional permitted use:
         a.   Is deemed necessary for the public convenience at that location;
         b.   Is so designed, located, and proposed to be operated that the
public health, safety and welfare will be protected; and
         c.   Would not cause substantial injury to the value of other property
in the community in which it is located. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
10-2-9: FEES FOR VARIANCES, APPEALS, CONDITIONAL PERMITTED USES AND AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Any application for an amendment, conditional permitted use, variance
or appeal filed by or on behalf of the owner or owners of the property affected
shall be accompanied by an application fee of two hundred eighty dollars
($280.00), plus the cost of publication of the notice in a newspaper of general
circulation within the Village.
   B.   Any application for any action, filed by an officer, board or
commission of the Village of Divernon, Illinois, not on behalf of any specific
private interest, shall not be accompanied by any fee. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-
2018)
10-2-10: VIOLATION, PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT:
Any person, firm, or corporation who violates, omits, neglects or refuses to
comply with or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this
title shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each day that
a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense. The
Zoning Administrator is hereby designated and authorized to enforce this title.
(Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
10-2-11: NUISANCES:
Every structure and lot in violation of this title is hereby declared a
nuisance. The Village may utilize the procedures to abate any such nuisance
provided for in title 4, chapter 2 of this Code to abate any such nuisance, or
apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for equitable relief to restrain,
enjoin or abate any such nuisance. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL REGULATIONS AND PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Allowable Use Of Land Or Buildings
10-3-2: Control Over Use
10-3-3: Control Over Bulk
10-3-4: Conditional Permitted Uses
10-3-5: Accessory Buildings, Structures And Uses
10-3-6: Yards, General
10-3-7: Permitted Obstructions In Required Yards
10-3-8: Mobile Home Parks And Trailers
10-3-9: Establishment Of Districts
10-3-10: Procedure For Zoning Of Territory To Be Annexed Or Annexed Territory
10-3-11: Incorporation Of The Zoning Map
10-3-12: Exemptions
10-3-13: Floodplain Area
10-3-1: ALLOWABLE USE OF LAND OR BUILDINGS:
The following uses of land or buildings listed below are allowed in the
districts indicated hereinafter under the conditions specified in this title:
   A.   Uses lawfully established on the effective date hereof.
   B.   Permitted uses as designated in chapter 4 of this title.
   C.   Conditional permitted uses as designated in chapter 4 of this title.
(Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
10-3-2: CONTROL OVER USE:
In all districts, after the effective date hereof, and subject to the
provisions as set forth in chapter 5 of this title regarding nonconforming
uses:
   A.   Any tract of land may be used.
   B.   Any lawfully existing or new building or other structure may be used,
relocated, enlarged, converted, extended, reconstructed or altered.
   C.   The use of any lawfully established existing building or other
structure or tract of land may be continued, changed, extended or enlarged for
any use or conditional permitted use allowed by the regulations for the
district in which such building or other structure or tract of land is located
and for no other purpose and shall conform to all other regulations set forth
in the applicable regulations of this title. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
10-3-3: CONTROL OVER BULK:
In all districts, after the effective date hereof and subject to the provisions
of chapter 5 of this title on nonconforming uses, any new building or other
structure shall conform to all the bulk, height and area requirements set forth
in the regulations for the district in which such building or other structure
is located and to all other applicable regulations of this title. (Ord. 2018-
004, 6-27-2018)
10-3-4: CONDITIONAL PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Procedures Of Review Of Conditional Permitted Uses: To provide for the
location of special classes of uses which are desirable for the public welfare
within a given district or districts but which are potentially incompatible
with typical uses herein permitted within them, a classification of conditional
uses is hereby established. Procedures for conditional uses are set forth in
chapter 2 of this title.
   B.   Existing Conditional Permitted Uses: Where a use exists on the
effective date hereof and it is classified as a conditional use in the district
in which it is located by this title, it shall be considered to be a lawful
conditional use. Additions or alterations to existing buildings or land
improvements for expansion of lawful conditional uses may be made within the
area of the lot included in the ownership existing at the time of adoption of
this title, and shall be subject to yard floor area ratio and building height
requirements set forth in this title for permitted uses in the district in
which such are located. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
10-3-5: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES:
   A.   Accessory buildings, structures and uses shall be compatible with the
principal uses and shall not be established prior to the establishment of the
principal use, and shall not include within the Village limits the keeping,
propagation or culture of pigeons, poultry or livestock whether or not for
profit.
   B.   No accessory buildings or structure, unless it conforms with the
requirements of accessory buildings for conditional uses, shall be erected or
altered at, nor moved to, a location within ten feet (10') of the nearest
gutter, eave, or roof line of the principal building, nor within the required
area of a front or side yard. An accessory building, structure or use in a rear
yard shall be not less than three feet (3') from any property line; except,
that on a corner lot, a reversed corner lot or a through lot, such accessory
building, structure or use shall be set back from the property line adjoining a
street the distance required herein for a specific permitted or conditional
use.
   C.   No accessory building, structure or use shall: 1) encroach upon that
side yard of a corner lot which is adjacent to the street; 2) encroach upon
that side of a reversed corner lot which is adjacent to the street; 3) encroach
upon that part of a rear yard, or of a through lot, which is within thirty five
feet (35') from the street line abutting the rear lot line; or 4) encroach upon
a front yard, except as permitted herein for specific use.
   D.   No building or structure, accessory to dwelling uses, shall have more
than one story nor exceed seventeen feet (17') in height unless otherwise
permitted.
(Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018; amd. Ord. 2023-004, 8-23-2023)
10-3-6: YARDS, GENERAL:
   A.   All yards and other open spaces allocated to a building (or group of
buildings comprising 1 principal use) shall be located on the same lot as such
building. The maintenance of yards and other open space and minimum lot area
legally required for a building shall be a continuing obligation of the owner
of such building or of the property on which it is located, as long as the
building is in existence. Furthermore, no legally required yards, other open
space or minimum lot area allocated to any building shall, by virtue of change
of ownership or for any other reason, be used to satisfy yard, other open space
or minimum lot area requirements for any other building.
   B.   No improved lot shall hereafter be divided into two (2) or more lots
and no portion of an improved lot shall be sold unless all improved lots
resulting from each such division or sale shall conform with all the applicable
bulk regulations of the zoning district in which the property is located.
   C.   No yards, now or hereafter provided, for a building existing on the
effective date hereof shall subsequently be reduced below, or further reduced
if already less than, the minimum yard requirements of this title for
equivalent new construction.
   D.   For lots platted before the effective date hereof, on one side of a
street where setbacks are maintained on lots occupying more than fifty percent
(50%) of such street frontage, between intersecting streets or a distance of
one thousand eight hundred feet (1,800'), whichever is less, the setback shall
be no less than the average of the existing setbacks. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-
2018)
10-3-7: PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS IN REQUIRED YARDS:
No obstructions shall be permitted in any required yard, except as follows:
   A.   In Any Yards: Marquees and awnings adjoining the principal building
overhanging roof eaves; chimneys, if they do not exceed ten percent (10%) of
the depth of the yard; and ornamental light standards, domestic television and
radio antennas, flag poles, arbors, trellises, trees, shrubs, coin- operated
telephone, permitted signs and outdoor fuel- dispensing equipment. On corner
lots, obstructions not higher than thirty inches (30") above curb level, if
located in that portion of a required front yard or side yard situated within
twenty feet (20') of the lot corner formed by the intersection of any two (2)
street lines.
   B.   In Side Yards: Open accessory off-street parking spaces, except in a
side yard abutting a street.
   C.   In Rear Yards: Enclosed, attached or detached off-street parking
spaces; open off-street parking spaces; accessory sheds; tool rooms; and any
farm accessory building, or any similar structures customarily accessory to the
principal use; and balconies, breezeways and open porches. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-
27-2018)
10-3-8: MOBILE HOME PARKS AND TRAILERS:
The following regulations shall apply to mobile homes:
   A.   A mobile home shall not constitute a permissible accessory building.
   B.   No mobile home or trailer shall be parked, stored or occupied for
living purposes except:
      1.   In an approved mobile home park; provided, that public or community
sewer and water facilities are available for each mobile home and that each
existing mobile home lot contains at least three thousand (3,000) square feet
of lot area.
      2.   For a period not to exceed one year, on property for which a permit
for the construction of a dwelling or dwellings has been issued, and on which
construction is actively carried forward to completion within the aforesaid one
year.
      3.   A mobile home or trailer may be used as a temporary office or
shelter incidental to construction or development of a premises on which the
trailer is located only during the time construction or development is actively
underway.
      4.   A trailer may be stored in a garage or rear yard; provided, that it
be licensed in accordance with the statutes for movement on highways, that it
be stored in a condition in which it can be moved at any time without removing
blocks or making adjustments, other than hitching and retracting landing gears,
and that it not be used for living, sleeping or commercial purposes while
stored. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
10-3-9: ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS:
In order to carry out the purposes and provisions of this title, the following
districts are hereby established:
 
Residence districts:
R   Residence District
Business districts:
B   Business District
Industrial districts:
I-1 Industrial District
I-2 Industrial District
 
(Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
10-3-10: PROCEDURE FOR ZONING OF TERRITORY TO BE ANNEXED OR ANNEXED TERRITORY:
All land which may hereafter become a part of the Village as a result of
annexation shall be classified and placed in the Residence District, unless
otherwise provided pursuant to a valid annexation. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
10-3-11: INCORPORATION OF THE ZONING MAP:
The location and boundaries of the districts established by this title are set
forth in the Zoning District Map, dated June 28, 2006, and hereby incorporated
as a part of this title. The Zoning Map, including all amendments thereto,
shall be a part of this title as if fully set forth and described herein. The
Zoning Map shall be filed with the Office of the Village Clerk and shall be
made available to public reference at all times during which those offices are
open. The Zoning Map shall be updated from time to time by the Zoning
Administrator as changes occur. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
10-3-12: EXEMPTIONS:
The following uses are exempted from this title and permitted in any district:
   A.   Poles, towers, wires, cables, conduits, vaults, laterals, pipes, mains,
valves or other similar distributing equipment for telephone, cable television
or other communications and electric power, gas, water and power lines;
provided, that the installation shall conform, when applicable, with Federal
Communications Commission and Federal Aviation Agency rules and regulations and
other authorities having jurisdiction.
   B.   The height limitation for the following buildings or structures or
parts thereof are hereby exempt from the limitations set forth in this title:
      1.   Agricultural buildings - barns, silos and grain elevators, but not
including dwellings.
      2.   Chimneys and flagpoles.
      3.   Radio and television antennas and towers.
      4.   Water tanks and standpipes. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
10-3-13: FLOODPLAIN AREA:
No building or structure shall be erected within a floodplain area except in
conformance with title 8, chapter 3 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
CHAPTER 4
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-4-1: R Residence District
10-4-2: B Business District
10-4-3: I-1 Industrial District
10-4-4: I-2 Industrial District
10-4-1: R RESIDENCE DISTRICT:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
      Churches.
      Community centers, parish houses, rectories.
      Gardening uses.
      Home occupations.
      Nursery schools.
      Parks, noncommercial and other open spaces.
      Schools.
      Single dwelling.
      Temporary buildings for construction purposes.
   B.   Conditional Permitted Uses:
      Apartment hotels.
      Cemeteries.
      Clubs, nonbusiness.
      Duplex, dwelling units.
      Electric and gas substations serving distribution area.
      Fire stations.
      Police stations.
      Pumping stations, water or sewer.
      Radio towers.
      Rooming and boarding houses.
      Telephone exchanges.
      Television towers.
      Trailer or mobile home parks.
   C.   Minimum Lot Dimensions:
      1.   Width: Seventy feet (70').
      2.   Depth: One hundred forty feet (140').
   D.   Yard Regulations:
      1.   Front yards: Minimum of twenty feet (20') in depth.
      2.   Side yards: Four feet (4') from the nearest part of a structure
(overhang).
      3.   Rear yards:
         a.   No building used for storage purposes shall be closer than three
feet (3') to the rear property line.
         b.   For buildings with living quarters, the measurements shall be the
same as side yards.
   E.   Private Garage Entrance Setbacks:
      1.   No private garage with entrance from a street shall be placed closer
than eighteen feet (18') from the property line.
      2.   No private garage with entrance from an alley shall be placed closer
than twelve feet (12') from the property line.
   F.   Minimum Driveway Length:
      1.   No driveway with entrance from a street shall extend less than
eighteen feet (18') from the property line.
      2.   No driveway with entrance from an alley shall extend less than
twelve feet (12') from the property line.
   G.   Accessory Building Limitations:
      1.   A rear yard may contain: a) an accessory building consisting of a
two car garage occupying an area of not more than five hundred seventy six
(576) square feet, or b) accessory buildings which, in the aggregate, occupy an
area no greater than the smaller of: 1) one thousand eight hundred (1,800)
square feet or 2) fifteen percent (15%) of the area of such rear yard. Such
accessory buildings may be used for off street parking.
      2.   Any accessory building used for parking or storage of motor vehicles
or trailers (whether designed or used for living and sleeping purposes or for
transportation of objects, including, but not limited to, goods, boats,
snowmobiles, farm implements, motorcycles and camping gear) shall be provided
with a driveway which shall: a) open upon a street or alley; b) be constructed
of either all-weather, hard surface pavement or well-graded, compacted, and
maintained gravel; c) not have a width exceeding twenty four feet (24'),
exclusive of curbs; d) be constructed in accordance with the provisions of
title 7, chapter 1 of this Code; and e) be subject to review of the Zoning
Administrator or his/her designee.
      3.   Nothing in this subsection G shall be construed as affecting or
waiving any regulation pertaining to lot lengths, lot widths, lot areas, lot
lines or setbacks, yard regulations, height regulations, obstruction
regulations, permitted uses or conditional permitted uses.
      4.   Accessory buildings may be used in the conduct of home occupations.
   H.   Nonpermanent Structures: Setbacks for nonpermanent residential
structures such as portable sheds, pools, etc., shall be no less than three
feet (3') for side and rear yards.
   I.   Height Regulation: No structure shall exceed two (2) stories (maximum
allowable), and shall not exceed thirty five feet (35') in height.
   J.   Sign Area: No signs shall exceed six (6) square feet in area, except
signs required by law for public notice.
   K.   Architectural Standards: All new structures in residential areas shall
be constructed in such a manner as to conform with existing and surrounding
architectural harmony.
   L.   Inspections: The Zoning Administrator or his/her designee shall conduct
a site inspection to ensure that all proper setbacks are maintained and shall
conduct a site inspection prior to construction of new homes, additions to
existing structures, or placement of a permanent structure. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-
27-2018)
10-4-2: B BUSINESS DISTRICT:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
      Amusement establishments: bowling alleys, pool halls, dance halls,
gymnasiums, indoor swimming pools and skating rinks.
      Antique shops.
      Art and school supply stores.
      Art galleries, museums, auction rooms and public libraries.
      Automotive sales.
      Automotive service stations.
      Bakeries.
      Banks and financial institutions.
      Barbershops.
      Beauty shops.
      Bicycle stores: sales, rental and repair.
      Book and stationery stores.
      Building material sales with outdoor storage.
      Building material sales without outdoor storage.
      Camera and photographic supply stores.
      Candy and ice cream stores.
      Carpet and rug stores.
      Cartage and express facilities providing for storage of goods, motor
trucks and other equipment in an enclosed structure.
      Catering establishments.
      Clothes pressing establishments.
      Clubs and lodges: private, fraternal and religious.
      Contractors and construction offices.
      Custom dressmaking.
      Dance schools.
      Department stores.
      Drugstores.
      Dry cleaning and laundry establishments.
      Dry good stores.
      Electrical and household appliance stores.
      Feed stores.
      Fire stations.
      Flower shops and conservatories.
      Food stores, grocery stores, meat markets and delicatessens.
      Fuel sales.
      Funeral homes.
      Furniture stores.
      Garages, public, servicing automotive vehicles, but not including body
repair and painting.
      Garden supply and seed stores.
      Gift shops.
      Hardware stores.
      Hobby shops.
      Hotels.
      Ice sales.
      Jewelry stores.
      Job printing shops.
      Mail order houses and service stores.
      Medical and dental clinics.
      Meeting halls.
      Miniature golf courses.
      Music shops.
      Newspaper offices, including printing.
      Offices devoted to business, professional and public activities.
      Optician and optometrist offices.
      Paint and wallpaper stores.
      Parking lots and garages for automobiles.
      Pet shops.
      Plumbing showrooms and shops.
      Police stations.
      Post offices.
      Radio and television service and repair shops.
      Restaurants.
      Shoe and hat repair shops.
      Shoe stores.
      Small repair shops.
      Sporting good stores.
      Tailor shops.
      Telegraph offices.
      Telephone booths.
      Theaters, excluding drive-ins.
      Trailer sales.
      Variety stores.
      Vending machines.
      Wearing apparel shops.
      Wholesale establishments.
   B.   Conditional Permitted Uses:
      Animal hospitals.
      Automobile laundries.
      Bakeries, wholesale.
      Churches and other religious institutions.
      Frozen food lockers.
      Greenhouses.
      Machinery sales establishments.
      Open sales lots, including sales of used cars.
      Outdoor amusement establishments: fairgrounds, permanent carnivals,
kiddie parks, golf driving ranges, miniature golf courses, and other similar
amusement centers.
      Public service uses:
      Electrical distribution centers.
      Filtration plants, pumping stations, and water reservoirs.
      Telephone exchange, radio and television transmitting or relay stations
and antenna towers.
      Other similar uses.
      Recreation buildings and community centers.
      Theaters, drive-in.
   C.   Accessory Uses To The Above Permitted Uses: Such accessory uses shall
not include the keeping or propagation of pigeons, poultry or livestock,
whether or not for profit.
   D.   Yard Regulations:
      1.   Front Yards: None.
      2.   Side Yards: None.
      3.   Rear Yards: Business and industrial districts shall have a rear area
of ten feet (10') minimum setback between the property line and the nearest
part of the building.
      4.   Transitional Yard:
         a.   Where a side lot line coincides with a side or rear lot line in
an adjacent residence district, a yard shall be provided along such lot line.
Such yard shall be not less than twenty feet (20') in width.
         b.   Where a rear lot line coincides with a side lot line in an
adjacent residence district, a yard shall be provided along such rear lot line.
Such yard shall be not less than thirty feet (30') in depth.
         c.   Where the extension of a front or side lot line coincides with a
front lot line of an adjacent lot located in a residence district, a yard equal
in depth to the minimum front yard required by this title on such a residential
lot shall be provided along such frontage or side lot lines for a distance of
at least twenty five feet (25'), including the width of an intervening alley
from such residential lot.
   E.   Height Regulation: No structure shall exceed one hundred feet (100') in
height.
   F.   Sign Regulations: Business and advertising signs are permitted, subject
to the following conditions:
      1.   Location: No sign shall be permitted within twenty feet (20') of any
residential district boundary line.
      2.   Illumination: Signs may have constant or flashing illumination;
provided, that any such signs that are located in direct line of vision of any
traffic control signal shall not have contrasting or flashing intermittent
illumination of red, green or amber color.
      3.   Gross Surface Area: The gross surface area in square feet of all
signs on a lot shall not exceed ten (10) times the linear feet of the frontage
of such lot. Each side of the lot that abuts upon a street may be included as
separate frontage.
      4.   Awnings: Signs on awnings shall be exempt from the limitations
imposed by this title on the projection of signs from the face of the wall of
any building or structure; provided, that any sign located on an awning shall
be affixed flat to the surface thereof. Further, no such sign shall extend
vertically or horizontally beyond the limits of said awning.
      5.   Projection:
         a.   A business sign when affixed to a building shall not project more
than eight feet (8') from the face of the wall of any building or structure. A
business sign not affixed to a building shall be not nearer than fifteen feet
(15') from a lot line adjoining a street; except, that a sign having its lowest
elevation ten feet (10') above the ground level and supported on standards or
portable signs not to exceed twelve (12) square feet in area that do not unduly
obstruct the pedestrian or motorist view may be located within three feet (3')
of such lot line.
         b.   A business sign may be located on a building roof; provided, it
is not higher than six feet (6') above the building height.
         c.   Advertising signs affixed flat against the building walls shall
not project therefrom more than eighteen inches (18") nor project higher than
the building height. Freestanding sign structures shall be located not less
than fifteen feet (15') from a lot line adjoining a street. No advertising sign
shall be located within one hundred feet (100') of a residential district
boundary line.
   G.   Supplementary Regulations:
      1.   All business, service, storage, merchandise, display and, where
permitted, repair and processing, shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed
building, except for off street automobile parking, off street loading and open
sales lots in districts where permitted.
      2.   Unless otherwise permitted herein for specified uses, goods sold
shall consist primarily of new merchandise and any goods produced on the
premises shall be sold at retail, primarily on the premises.
   H.   Inspections: The Zoning Administrator or his/her designee shall conduct
a site inspection to ensure that all proper setbacks are maintained and shall
conduct a site inspection prior to construction, additions to existing
structures, or placement of a permanent structure. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
10-4-3: I-1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
      1.   Uses Enumerated:
         Accessory uses incidental to and on the same lot and zoning district
as the principal use.
         Arenas, open or enclosed.
         Auditoriums, open or enclosed.
         Auto laundries.
         Automobile service stations.
         Building material sales with outside storage.
         Bus stations, terminals and garages.
         Cartage and express facilities.
         Contractor offices, shops and yards.
         Dental service facilities and clinics.
         Dry cleaning establishments.
         Dwelling units for watchmen and their families, when located on the
premises where employed.
         Electric, gas, and telephone and water service substations.
         Feed sales and service.
         Fertilizer sales and service.
         Fire stations.
         Fuel sales.
         Garages for storage, repair and servicing of motor vehicles.
         Gas regulator stations.
         Grain elevators.
         Greenhouses, wholesale.
         Highway maintenance shops and yards.
         Hotels; camps for railroad labor; sleeping, lodging, eating and
related facilities.
         Ice sales.
         Laundries.
         Mail order houses.
         Medical service facilities and clinics.
         Microwave relay towers.
         Motor freight terminals.
         Offices and lodges of labor organizations.
         Packing and crating.
         Police stations.
         Printing.
         Publishing establishments.
         Radar installations and towers.
         Radio studios, stations and towers for transmitting and receiving.
         Railroad passenger stations.
         Recreational center buildings (public and private).
         Restaurants, including the sale of liquor in conjunction therewith.
         Stadiums, open or enclosed.
         Taverns.
         Telephone booths.
         Telephone exchanges.
         Telephone transmission equipment buildings.
         Television studios, stations and towers for transmitting and
receiving.
         Temporary buildings for construction purposes, for a period not to
exceed the duration of such construction.
         Temporary real estate tract offices, for the purposes of conducting
the sale of lots of the tract upon which such tract office is located, for a
period not to exceed two (2) years.
         Trade schools.
         Waterworks.
         Weighing stations.
      2.   Condition: Uses permitted in the I-1 District are subject to the
following condition: Dwelling units and lodging rooms are not permitted, except
for watchmen quarters.
   B.   Conditional Permitted Uses:
Airports, private and commercial, including heliports and other aircraft
landing fields, runways, flight strips, and flying schools, together with
hangars, terminal buildings, and other auxiliary facilities.
   C.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: Not less than twenty feet (20') in depth at any point.
      2.   Side Yards: On a corner lot, a side yard shall not be less than
thirty feet (30'); elsewhere, there shall be a minimum side yard of six feet
(6') for lots fifty feet (50') wide and under, seven feet (7') for lots fifty
feet (50') to sixty feet (60') wide, eight feet (8') for lots sixty feet (60')
to seventy feet (70'), and so on.
      3.   Transitional Yards:
         a.   Where a side or a rear yard lot line of a lot in the Industrial
District coincides with a side or rear lot line in an adjacent residence
district, a yard of forty feet (40') shall be provided in the part of the yard
adjacent whether it be side or rear yard.
         b.   Where a rear lot line coincides with a side lot line in an
adjacent residence district, a yard shall be provided along such rear lot line.
Such yard shall be not less than fifty feet (50') in depth.
         c.   Where a rear lot line coincides with a rear lot line in an
adjacent business or residence district, a yard shall be provided along such
rear lot line. Such yard shall not be less than fifty feet (50') in depth.
         d.   Where the extension of a front or side lot line coincides with a
front lot line of an adjacent lot located in a residence district, a yard equal
in depth to the minimum front yard required by this title on such adjacent
residential lot shall be provided along such front or side lot lines for a
distance of at least twenty feet (20'), including the width of an intervening
alley from such residential lot.
      4.   Rear Yard: Business and industrial districts shall have a rear area
of ten feet (10') minimum setback between the property line and the nearest
part of the building.
   D.   Sign Area:
      1.   Gross Area: The gross area in square feet of all signs in a lot
shall not exceed twenty (20) times the linear frontage of such lot.
      2.   Flashing Signs: However, the gross area of all flashing signs shall
not exceed fifteen (15) times the linear feet of frontage of such lot.
      3.   Projection: No sign shall project more than eight feet (8') from the
face of the wall of any building or structure.
      4.   Spacing: Advertising signs on any controlled access route must be
spaced at least three hundred thirty feet (330') apart on either side of the
road. All advertising signs must be kept at least five hundred feet (500') away
from an entrance or exit to a controlled access route.
   E.   Inspections: The Zoning Administrator or his/her designee shall conduct
a site inspection to ensure that all proper setbacks are maintained and shall
conduct a site inspection prior to construction, additions to existing
structures, or placement of a permanent structure. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
10-4-4: I-2 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
      1.   Enumerated:
         Any use permitted in the I-1 District.
         Airfreight terminals.
         Automobile wrecking yards.
         Fertilizer manufacturing.
         Junkyards.
         Railroad classification yards.
         Railroad freight terminals.
         Railroad switching yards.
         Repair shops.
         Roundhouses.
         Water freight terminals.
      2.   Condition: Uses permitted in the I-2 District are subject to the
following condition: Dwelling units and lodging rooms are not permitted, except
for watchmen quarters.
   B.   Conditional Permitted Uses:
         Same as the I-1 District.
         Sanitary landfill.
   C.   Yards: Yard requirements for the I-2 District are the same as the I-
1 District.
   D.   Supplementary Regulations: Any land construed to be used for the
purpose of automobile wrecking yards or junkyards shall be completely screened
by a solid wall or uniformly painted solid fence at least eight feet (8') in
height, and open storage is restricted to a height that does not exceed that of
the enclosing fence.
   E.   Inspections: The Zoning Administrator or his/her designee shall conduct
a site inspection to ensure that all proper setbacks are maintained and shall
conduct a site inspection prior to construction, additions to existing
structures, or placement of a permanent structure. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
CHAPTER 5
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES
SECTION:
10-5-1: Intent
10-5-2: Authority To Continue Nonconforming Buildings, Structures And Uses
10-5-3: Exempted Buildings, Structures And Uses
10-5-4: Restrictions Of Nonconforming Uses
10-5-5: Elimination Of Nonconforming Uses
10-5-1: INTENT:
It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the regulation of
nonconforming uses, buildings and structures. It is not the purpose of this
chapter to deprive the owner of any existing property of its use or maintenance
for the purpose to which it is lawfully devoted at the time of the adoption
hereof, but to provide for the regulation and, if necessary, the gradual
elimination of uses, buildings or structures which are incompatible with the
character of the districts in which they are located. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-
2018)
10-5-2: AUTHORITY TO CONTINUE NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES:
Any nonconforming building, structure or use which existed lawfully at the time
of the adoption hereof and which remains nonconforming, and any such building,
structure or use which shall become nonconforming upon the adoption hereof or
of any subsequent amendment hereto, may be continued in accordance with the
regulations which follow. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
10-5-3: EXEMPTED BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES:
   A.   A nonconforming building, structure or use lawfully established on the
effective date hereof shall not be subject to the provisions of this chapter
solely by reason of being nonconforming with respect to the standards
prescribed in this title for:
      1.   Floor area.
      2.   Yards (front, side or rear).
      3.   Lot area per dwelling unit.
      4.   Lot width.
      5.   Ground floor area.
      6.   Off-street parking and loading spaces.
   B.   No building designed and used as a dwelling which was legally
established on the effective date hereof in any district shall be subject to
elimination because of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-
2018)
10-5-4: RESTRICTIONS OF NONCONFORMING USES:
Any lawful existing use which does not conform with the regulations of the
district in which it is located shall be subject to the following provisions:
   A.   A nonconforming use shall not be enlarged nor shall it be extended to
occupy an area greater than the area occupied by such use on the effective date
hereof.
   B.   A nonconforming use shall not be moved, in whole or in part, to any
other position of the lot occupied by such use on the effective date hereof.
   C.   If a nonconforming use of land ceases for a period of six (6) months or
more and if the building or structure thereon are adaptable to a use permitted
in the district in which it is located, then a subsequent use of land must
conform to the regulations specified by this title for the district in which it
is located.
   D.   Should a nonconforming use or structure or building, which is designed
or intended for a use which is not permitted in the district in which it is
located, deteriorate or be damaged or destroyed by fire or other casualty or
act of God to the extent that the cost of the restoration to the condition in
which it was before the occurrence shall exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
replacement cost of the entire building new, then it shall not be restored
unless said building or structure or use shall conform to all of the
regulations in the district in which it is located.
   E.   A nonconforming use shall not be changed to another nonconforming use
when such nonconforming use is located in a building or structure, all or
substantially all of which building or structure is designed or intended for a
use permitted in the district in which it is located. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-
2018)
10-5-5: ELIMINATION OF NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Notwithstanding any other provision in this title, if a nonconforming
use ceases for six (6) months, it may not in any event be revived.
   B.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, any mobile home
located in a residential district must be approved by the Zoning Board of
Appeals if it is to be replaced with another mobile home. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-
2018)
CHAPTER 6
MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Swimming Pool And Trampoline Regulations
10-6-2: Porch, Deck And Shed Regulations
10-6-3: Fences
10-6-4: Visibility At Intersections In Residential Districts
10-6-5: Access To Structures
10-6-6: Major Recreational Equipment
10-6-7: Drainage
10-6-8: Size Restriction For New Homes
10-6-9: Utilities
10-6-10: Portable Storage Containers
10-6-1: SWIMMING POOL AND TRAMPOLINE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definitions:
    IN-GROUND SWIMMING POOL: A swimming pool constructed so that the lining or
walls confine the water at or below ground level.
   INFLATABLE POOL: A swimming pool capable of having a water depth of thirty
six inches (36") or less, and which is erected by means of inflation.
   JUVENILE POOL: A receptacle for water or an artificial pool of water having
a depth of less than two feet (2'), intended for the purpose of immersion or
partial immersion therein of human beings.
   MINI-TRAMPOLINE: A trampoline with dimensions not to exceed forty eight
inches (48") in width and eighteen inches (18") in height.
   PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL SWIMMING POOL: A swimming pool, including inflatable
pools, maintained by an individual primarily for the sole use of his or her
household and guests and not for profit.
   PUBLIC SWIMMING POOL: A swimming pool maintained by individuals for the use
of more than one household, or maintained by a club for the use of its members,
or maintained by a business for profit, or maintained by a school, park
district, municipality or other public not for profit organizations.
   SWIMMING POOL: A receptacle for water, or an artificial pool of water having
a depth at any point of more than two feet (2'), intended for the purpose of
immersion or partial immersion therein of human beings, and including all
appurtenant equipment constructed, installed and maintained in or above the
ground inside or outside of a building.
   TRAMPOLINE: An apparatus using cloth or canvas sheeting attached to a metal
frame designed to perform acrobatic, tumbling, or jumping exercises.
   B.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to proceed with the construction, installation,
enlargement or alteration of any swimming pool in the Village until a properly
executed permit has been obtained from the Village.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to proceed with the construction, installation,
enlargement or alteration of any public swimming pool in the Village until all
required permits have been issued by the State of Illinois.
      3.   No permits shall be required for trampolines or juvenile or
inflatable pools.
   C.   Permits, Location And Building Restrictions:
      1.   Each application for a swimming pool permit shall be submitted for
approval to the Village Zoning Administrator. The application shall be made in
such form as prescribed by the Zoning Administrator and shall include such
information as required, including, but not limited to, lot lines, distance
from existing structures, and location of pool, fencing and all other
appurtenant equipment.
      2.   No portion of a swimming pool shall be located less than four feet
(4') from a side or rear lot line. No pool or appurtenant equipment shall be
permitted in any front yard.
      3.   No public swimming pool shall be permitted in residential zones,
except that of a pool maintained by an individual for the use of more than one
household.
      4.   No portion of a public swimming pool shall be located less than
fifteen feet (15') from a side or rear lot line. No pool or appurtenant
equipment shall be permitted in any front yard.
      5.   Where electrical conductors are adjacent to a swimming pool,
juvenile pool or inflatable pool, they shall have proper insulation and shall
be ground fault protected. No overhead electrical wires shall be permitted
within fifteen feet (15') of a swimming pool or trampoline.
      6.   Swimming pools shall be maintained in a clean, safe and sanitary
condition.
   D.   Security And Fencing:
      1.   A swimming pool or trampoline shall be completely enclosed by a
fence:
         a.   Which is erected along the periphery of the swimming pool or
trampoline and any immediately adjacent walk, deck or terrace area appurtenant
to the swimming pool or trampoline; or
         b.   Which completely encloses a rear yard in which the swimming pool
or trampoline is located.
      2.   The fence shall be at least thirty six inches (36") in height and
shall be designed and constructed to render the swimming pool or trampoline
inaccessible to children under six (6) years of age. All fence openings shall
be equipped with gates and all gates shall be equipped with self-closing
devices and shall have latches.
      3.   Swimming pools shall be exempt from the fencing requirements if:
         a.   The pool is above ground level; and
         b.   The pool has a walkway or deck area greater than thirty inches
(30") in height with integral guards or rails and a means of egress which can
be removed or locked.
Residents with such exempt pools shall ensure that ladders and other means of
ingress or egress are kept removed or locked when swimming pools are not in
use.
      4.   Mini-trampolines shall be exempt from the fencing requirements, but
shall not be left open and available when not in use.
   E.   Inspection Requirements: The Zoning Administrator may, upon completion
of construction of a pool or upon receipt of information that a pool or
trampoline is nonconforming, shall inspect the premises to determine if it is
in compliance with the provisions of this title.
   F.   Nonconforming Structures: Swimming pools and trampolines erected prior
to the effective date hereof, which do not meet the fence, electrical or safety
requirements of this section shall be made to conform to such requirements
within ninety (90) days of the effective date hereof. No swimming pool existing
as of the effective date hereof shall be rendered illegal solely due to the
location or setback provisions of this section. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
10-6-2: PORCH, DECK AND SHED REGULATIONS:
   A.   Porches and decks, when attached to a principal dwelling, or when any
part thereof is within eighteen inches (18") of a principal dwelling, shall be
considered part of such principal dwelling for setback purposes and for
purposes of calculating required yards in accordance with the provisions of
this title. However, except for enclosed porches and decks, the area of a porch
or deck shall not be included in the gross floor area of a structure.
   B.   Porches and decks not attached to or within eighteen inches (18") of a
principal dwelling shall be considered accessory buildings for all purposes of
this title.
   C.   The construction or enclosure of a porch or deck, whether within
subsection A or B of this section, shall require a building permit. Each
application for a permit shall be accompanied by the permit fee specified in
chapter 2 of this title and with a set of plans or drawings drawn to scale. All
distances and dimensions shall be accurately figured and drawings shall be made
explicit and complete showing the relative locations of the residence, the
porch or deck and any existing accessory buildings and the lot lines.
   D.   A shed with sixty five (65) square feet or more floor area shall
require a building permit. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
10-6-3: FENCES:
   A.   Requirements In Residential Districts: No fence may be erected within
the Village and within a residential zoning district which does not comply with
the following specifications:
      1.   Fence Materials:
         a.   Approved fencing materials include: finished wood, vinyl,
composite, chain link, wrought iron, and decorative metal.
         b.   Unapproved fencing materials include: orange plastic snow or
construction fence, plastic fence, cattle fence, welded wire, or chicken wire.
         c.   The Zoning Administrator shall approve or deny any questionable
fence material, or proposed fence material, which is not clearly an approved or
unapproved fence material as part of the fence permit process described herein.
      2.   Front And Rear Yard: Any fence erected in a required front yard
shall be at least fifty percent (50%) open, and no fence erected in a required
front yard may exceed four feet (4') in height measured from ground level. A
clearance of three inches (3") shall be allowed for installation purposes and
shall not count in determining the height of a fence. No privacy fence may be
erected in the front of a residence on the same lot. For through lots, that
yard which is used as a rear yard, and which would normally be considered a
rear yard for lots other than through lots, shall be considered a rear yard for
purposes of erecting a fence.
      3.   Privacy Fence: Any privacy fence erected on the side street of a
corner lot shall be restricted to the same setback requirements as a building
or structure.
      4.   Height: No fence may be erected which exceeds eight feet (8') in
height above ground level.
      5.   Sharp Or Pointed Materials: No fence may be constructed with barbed
wire, metal spikes or any other sharp pointed materials. All chain link fences
shall be installed with the knuckle portion of the fence up and with the barb
portion of the fence at or near the ground. No fence may be electrified.
      6.   Access: No fence may be erected which hinders access to any easement
or right-of-way for a public or Village owned utility including, but not
limited to, gas, water, sewer, telephone, electric and cable television.
   B.   Requirements In Business And Industrial Districts: No fence may be
erected within the Village and within a business or industrial zoning district,
which does not comply with the following specifications:
      1.   Fencing materials shall comply with subsection A1 of this section.
      2.   Any fence erected in a required front yard shall be at least fifty
percent (50%) open.
      3.   Any privacy fence erected on the side street of a corner lot shall
be restricted to the same setback requirements as a building or structure.
      4.   No fence may exceed a height of eight feet (8') above ground level.
A clearance of three inches (3") shall be allowed for installation purposes and
shall not count in determining the height of a fence.
      5.   No fence may be constructed with barbed wire, metal spikes or any
other sharp pointed materials unless the sharp pointed materials are erected at
least six feet (6') above ground level, but not higher than eight feet (8')
above ground level. All chain-link fences shall be installed with the barbed
portion of a fence at or near the ground unless it is installed at least six
feet (6') above ground level. No fence may be electrified.
      6.   No fence may be erected which hinders access to any easement or
right-of-way for a public or Village owned utility including, but not limited
to, gas, water, sewer, telephone, electric and cable television.
   C.   Permits:
      1.   No fence may be erected unless a fence permit is obtained from the
Zoning Administrator. The individual, agent or contractor installing the fence
shall obtain the permit. No work shall commence until the permit has been
obtained. Any individual or agency starting work prior to applying for, and
receiving said permit shall be subject to a twenty five dollar ($25.00) fine.
This fine shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other applicable
fines or penalties assessed pursuant to this Code.
   D.   Recreational Purpose Fences: Fences erected for purposes of providing
fencing around sports or recreational facilities or areas as listed below,
shall not be subject to the height restrictions specified elsewhere in this
section; provided, that such facility or area is not located within twenty feet
(20') of a zoning lot corner formed by the intersection of any two (2) street
lines, the fence is at least seventy five percent (75%) open and a fence permit
is obtained. The maximum height of a fence is listed by each sports or
recreational facility or areas as follows:
 
Use                                                    Maximum Height
Baseball diamond backstop (public or private)          16'
Elementary, middle or high schools (public or private) 8'
Swimming pools (public)                                8'
Tennis courts (public or private)                      12'
 
   E.   Swimming Pool Fences: In the event of any conflict between this section
and section
10-6-1 of this chapter relating to swimming pool fences, section
10-6-1 of this chapter shall prevail. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
10-6-4: VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
On a corner lot in a residential district, nothing shall be erected, placed,
planted, or allowed to grow in such a manner as to materially impede vision
between a height of two and one-half feet (21/2') and ten feet (10') above the
centerline grades established by the intersecting streets in the area bounded
by the street lines of such corner lot and a line joining two (2) points on
said street lines, each point lying twenty feet (20') from the point of the
intersection (or corner of the lot). (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
10-6-5: ACCESS TO STRUCTURES:
Every building hereafter erected or moved shall be on a lot adjacent to a
public street or with access to an approved private street, and all structures
shall be located on lots so as to provide safe and convenient access for
servicing and fire protection. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
10-6-6: MAJOR RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Definition: For purposes of this title, "major recreational equipment"
is defined as including boats and boat trailers, travel trailers, pickup
campers or coaches (designed to be mounted on automotive vehicles), tent
trailers, and the like, and cases or boxes used for transporting recreational
equipment, whether occupied by such equipment or not.
   B.   Parking, Storage And Use Restrictions: Major recreational equipment
shall not be used for dining, sleeping, or housekeeping purposes when parked or
stored on a residential lot or in any other location not approved for such use;
except, that such use is permitted for periods of time not exceeding fourteen
(14) days in any single thirty (30) day period. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
10-6-7: DRAINAGE:
No property shall be altered in any manner to intentionally or unintentionally
cause water drainage to drain onto or into the property of another. Any person
altering property in violation of this section shall make all necessary
modifications to remedy and repair such violations as soon as possible at the
sole expense of the person altering property in violation of this section. No
violations shall occur pursuant to this section where unaltered property
naturally drains onto or into the property of another. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-
2018)
10-6-8: SIZE RESTRICTION FOR NEW HOMES:
All new homes shall consist of not less than eight hundred fifty (850) square
feet. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
10-6-9: UTILITIES:
   A.   All new subdivisions shall have underground utilities.
   B.   All new construction shall have underground utilities. (Ord. 2018-004,
6-27-2018)
10-6-10: PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINERS:
   A.   Types Of Containers: For the purposes of this section, the phrase
"portable storage container" shall include but not be limited to the following
types of containers:
      1.   Freight Container: A reusable transport and storage unit, fit for
moving products and raw materials between locations.
      2.   Portable On-Demand Storage (PODS): Storage container usually
constructed of plywood over steel frame, generally rented and left in a
customer's driveway for the loading or unloading of personal and household
items to be later stored in a warehouse or delivered to another location or
used for the collection of donations and storage of items during disasters and
emergency situations.
      3.   Semi-Trailer: A trailer supported in the rear by wheels, with legs
to support the front of the trailer when uncoupled, and having no front axle.
Semi-trailers are routinely transported by coupling a road tractor or dolly,
supporting a large portion of the weight, to the trailer. Semi-trailers include
but are not limited to: box or van, curtain side, refrigerator truck, tanker,
dry bulk, flatbed, lowboy, car- carrier and sidelifter trailers.
      4.   Storage Or Shipping Container: A container with strength suitable to
withstand shipment, storage, and handling including but is not limited to
reusable steel boxes, intermodal freight containers, corrugated boxes, wooden
boxes, crates, and bulk shipping containers, drums or specialized shipping
containers.
      5.   Trailer: An enclosed or unenclosed container, utility or flatbed
that is designed principally for the transport of goods or materials.
      6.   Other Container: Any other container or structure deemed to be a
portable storage container by the Zoning Administrator.
   B.   Permit Required: No person shall store, maintain or otherwise keep a
portable storage container on any lot or property without first having obtained
a permit issued by the Zoning Administrator.
   C.   Temporary Placement:
      1.   A portable storage container may be temporarily placed in a
residential, business or industrial district for a period not to exceed thirty
(30) days in a twelve (12) month period.
      2.   The maximum allowable size for a portable storage container in a
residential district is one hundred sixty (160) square feet with an overall
length not to exceed twenty feet (20').
      3.   Not more than one portable storage container shall be permitted on a
property in a residential district. Not more than two (2) portable storage
containers shall be permitted on a property in a business or industrial
district.
      4.   Placement of the portable storage container shall:
         a.   Comply with the side and rear zoning setback requirements for the
zoning district in which it is located.
         b.   Not be placed in front of the front foundation of the residence
or other primary structure on the property. For the purposes of this subsection
C4b, "front foundation" shall mean the side of the house or primary structure
located closest to the roadway upon which the property fronts.
         c.   Be placed on a concrete or asphalt surface.
      5.   At no time shall a portable storage container be situated on any lot
where such placement may impair or obstruct visual sight lines to any public
thoroughfare.
      6.   Portable storage containers shall not be placed or unloaded on any
Village street or right-of-way.
   D.   Long Term Placement:
      1.   A portable storage container may be placed in a business or
industrial district for a period of more than twelve (12) months on a lot or
property that has been approved by the Zoning Administrator for long term
placement.
      2.   Storage or shipping containers are the only types of portable
storage containers that may be permitted for long term placement in a business
or industrial district.
      3.   Any type of portable storage container may be placed in a
residential district for long term placement use by a community center, home
occupation, school, fire station, police station or other type of similar usage
upon approval of the Zoning Administrator.
      4.   Long term use permits shall be obtained from the Zoning
Administrator prior to placement of a portable storage container. Long term use
permits shall be valid for a period of not more than twelve (12) months from
the date of issuance. The holder of a long term placement permit may apply to
the Zoning Administrator for an extension of said permit in the sixty (60) days
prior to the expiration of a valid permit. Applicant must provide a detailed,
scaled, site plan for any proposed container and location, showing the
placement of the portable storage container and any and all screening features.
      5.   Long term use permits shall not be provided for any portable storage
container in a business or industrial district that is visible from the portion
of any public road that abuts the lot or property. Acceptable screening
features for a container include landscaping, fencing, terrain, or a
combination of these features. All structures and fences used for screening
must be permitted pursuant to this Code.
      6.   Placement of portable storage containers shall:
         a.   Comply with the side and rear zoning setback requirements for the
zoning district in which it is located.
         b.   Be placed on a concrete or asphalt surface.
         c.   Not occupy any required off street parking spaces or loading/
unloading areas or fire lanes in any district.
         d.   Not block, obstruct, or reduce in any manner any required exits,
windows, vent shafts, parking spaces, and/or access driveways.
         e.   Not be stacked on top of each other or on any other structure.
         f.   Not be placed closer than one thousand feet (1,000') to any
existing inventoried wetland or identified floodplain.
      7.   At no time shall a portable storage container be situated on any lot
where such placement may impair or obstruct visual sight lines to any public
thoroughfare.
      8.   Portable storage containers shall not be placed or unloaded on any
Village street or right-of-way.
   E.   Standards: Portable storage containers shall meet the following
standards:
      1.   All portable storage containers shall be constructed of steel or
aluminum with a minimum 14-gauge thickness, except for a wood floor within the
metal shell, unless otherwise approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      2.   All portable storage containers shall not exceed forty feet (40') in
length, eight feet (8') in width, and eight feet, six inches (8'6") in height.
      3.   PODS shall not be larger than eight feet (8') wide, twenty feet
(20') long and eight feet (8') high.
      4.   All portable storage containers shall not have any factory built or
field applied electrical, plumbing, heating, or air conditioning systems, and
shall not be connected to any power system.
      5.   No fixtures, mechanicals, or equipment of any kind may be affixed to
the container, with the exception of a locking device.
      6.   All portable storage containers shall be installed and maintained in
a level and plumb condition with a maximum differential settlement of grade of
two inches (2"). Long term placement permitted portable storage containers must
be placed on a permanent foundation.
      7.   All portable storage containers shall be a solid, flat, non-
reflective neutral color, and portable storage containers awarded a long term
use permit must be painted a solid, flat, non-reflective color that matches the
surrounding natural environment prior to placement thereof.
      8.   No signage, lettering, text, or artwork may be placed on any
portable storage container unless such portable storage container is located in
a business district and the signage, lettering, text, or artwork is approved by
the Zoning Administrator prior to placement thereof.
   F.   Accessory Use: Vehicles, trailers (semi- and/or utility), manufactured
housing, camping units, PODS and mobile homes shall not be used as an accessory
building, storage building, utility building, shed, or for any other similar
use unless it is part of a commercial operation in a business or industrial
district duly conducted on the premises where such operation is in compliance
with this title and/or the laws of this State.
   G.   Restrictions:
      1.   No storage or shipping container shall be allowed on a lot without
the existence of a primary residence unless used during:
         a.   Construction of a primary residence or accessory structure.
         b.   Transportation of personal property to and from existing
structures.
         c.   Construction of a major subdivision development or another
approved construction site.
      2.   Storage or shipping containers used as part of a permitted
construction project shall be permanently removed from the premises within
thirty (30) days of the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
   H.   Temporary Use: Vehicles, trailers (semi- and/or utility), manufactured
housing, and mobile homes shall be allowed to be temporarily used as office
space, break rooms or other such similar uses during the construction phase of
a commercial development or major residential subdivision.
   I.   Roll-Off Dumpsters: Roll-off type dumpsters used for the removal of
discarded building materials and debris shall be temporarily allowed in the
front, side or rear of a primary residence or structure during a period of
active construction. (Ord. 2018-004, 6-27-2018)
